
UI  - 24590363
TI  - Population screening for variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease using a novel blood test: diagnostic accuracy and feasibility study.
AB  - In conjunction with the assay's established high sensitivity (71.4%; 95% CI, 47.8%-88.7%), the extremely high specificity supports using the assay to screen for vCJD infection in prion-exposed populations. Additionally, the lack of cross-reactivity and false positives in a range of nonprion neurodegenerative diseases supports the use of the assay in patient diagnosis.

UI  - 24411709
TI  - Doxycycline in Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease: a phase 2, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - Agenzia Italiana Farmaco, Italian Ministry of Health, AIEnP, and French Ministry of Health.

UI  - 24122181
TI  - Quinacrine treatment trial for sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.
AB  - This study provides Class I evidence that quinacrine does not improve survival for people with sCJD when given orally at a dose of 300 mg per day for 2 months.

UI  - 23012332
TI  - Cerebrospinal fluid biomarker supported diagnosis of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease and rapid dementias: a longitudinal multicentre study over 10 years.
AB  - To date, cerebrospinal fluid analysis, particularly protein 14-3-3 testing, presents an important approach in the identification of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease cases. However, one special point of criticism of 14-3-3 testing is the specificity in the differential diagnosis of rapid dementia. The constant observation of increased cerebrospinal fluid referrals in the national surveillance centres over the last years raises the concern of declining specificity due to higher number of cerebrospinal fluid tests performed in various neurological conditions. Within the framework of a European Community supported longitudinal multicentre study ('cerebrospinal fluid markers') we analysed the spectrum of rapid progressive dementia diagnoses, their potential influence on 14-3-3 specificity as well as results of other dementia markers (tau, phosphorylated tau and amyloid-(1-42)) and evaluated the specificity of 14-3-3 in Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease diagnosis for the years 1998-2008. A total of 29 022 cerebrospinal fluid samples were analysed for 14-3-3 protein and other cerebrospinal fluid dementia markers in patients with rapid dementia and suspected Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease in the participating centres. In 10 731 patients a definite diagnosis could be obtained. Protein 14-3-3 specificity was analysed for Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease with respect to increasing cerebrospinal fluid tests per year and spectrum of differential diagnosis. Ring trials were performed to ensure the comparability between centres during the reported time period. Protein 14-3-3 test specificity remained high and stable in the diagnosis of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease during the observed time period across centres (total specificity 92%; when compared with patients with definite diagnoses only: specificity 90%). However, test specificity varied with respect to differential diagnosis. A high 14-3-3 specificity was obtained in differentiation to other neurodegenerative diseases (95-97%) and non-neurological conditions (91-97%). We observed lower specificity in the differential diagnoses of acute neurological diseases (82-87%). A marked and constant increase in cerebrospinal fluid test referrals per year in all centres did not influence 14-3-3 test specificity and no change in spectrum of differential diagnosis was observed. Cerebrospinal fluid protein 14-3-3 detection remains an important test in the diagnosis of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. Due to a loss in specificity in acute neurological events, the interpretation of positive 14-3-3 results needs to be performed in the clinical context. The spectrum of differential diagnosis of rapid progressive dementia varied from neurodegenerative dementias to dementia due to acute neurological conditions such as inflammatory diseases and non-neurological origin.

UI  - 22930754
TI  - The prion protein preference of sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease subtypes.
AB  - Sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) is the most prevalent manifestation of the transmissible spongiform encephalopathies or prion diseases affecting humans. The disease encompasses a spectrum of clinical phenotypes that have been correlated with molecular subtypes that are characterized by the molecular mass of the protease-resistant fragment of the disease-related conformation of the prion protein and a polymorphism at codon 129 of the gene encoding the prion protein. A cell-free assay of prion protein misfolding was used to investigate the ability of these sporadic CJD molecular subtypes to propagate using brain-derived sources of the cellular prion protein (PrP(C)). This study confirmed the presence of three distinct sporadic CJD molecular subtypes with PrP(C) substrate requirements that reflected their codon 129 associations in vivo. However, the ability of a sporadic CJD molecular subtype to use a specific PrP(C) substrate was not determined solely by codon 129 as the efficiency of prion propagation was also influenced by the composition of the brain tissue from which the PrP(C) substrate was sourced, thus indicating that nuances in PrP(C) or additional factors may determine sporadic CJD subtype. The results of this study will aid in the design of diagnostic assays that can detect prion disease across the diversity of sporadic CJD subtypes.

UI  - 22876179
TI  - Small protease sensitive oligomers of PrPSc in distinct human prions determine conversion rate of PrP(C).
AB  - The mammalian prions replicate by converting cellular prion protein (PrP(C)) into pathogenic conformational isoform (PrP(Sc)). Variations in prions, which cause different disease phenotypes, are referred to as strains. The mechanism of high-fidelity replication of prion strains in the absence of nucleic acid remains unsolved. We investigated the impact of different conformational characteristics of PrP(Sc) on conversion of PrP(C) in vitro using PrP(Sc) seeds from the most frequent human prion disease worldwide, the Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (sCJD). The conversion potency of a broad spectrum of distinct sCJD prions was governed by the level, conformation, and stability of small oligomers of the protease-sensitive (s) PrP(Sc). The smallest most potent prions present in sCJD brains were composed only of20 monomers of PrP(Sc). The tight correlation between conversion potency of small oligomers of human sPrP(Sc) observed in vitro and duration of the disease suggests that sPrP(Sc) conformers are an important determinant of prion strain characteristics that control the progression rate of the disease.

UI  - 21492178
TI  - Infusion of P-Capt prion-filtered red blood cell products demonstrate acceptable in vivo viability and no evidence of neoantigen formation.
AB  - P-Capt-filtered, stored RBCs demonstrated acceptable viability and no detectable neoantigen expression, immunogenic responses. or safety issues after infusion of a complete unit. The additional filtration time and modest reduction in RBC content are within acceptable levels for implementation in countries with transfusion transmission of vCJD.

UI  - 20922767
TI  - Large-scale immunohistochemical examination for lymphoreticular prion protein in tonsil specimens collected in Britain.
AB  - There have been 173 cases of variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (vCJD) in the UK, as of 5 July 2010, as a result of the bovine spongiform encephalopathy epidemic. The number of individuals subclinically infected with vCJD, and thus the eventual number of cases, remains, however, uncertain. In an attempt to address this problem, 63,007 tonsil tissue specimens were previously tested by enzyme immunoassay (EIA) for the presence of disease-related prion protein (PrP(res)) and found to be negative. To confirm the reliability of this result, all those in the birth cohort most at risk (1961-1985) and a few others, including controls, have now been tested by immunohistochemistry (IHC). Histological slides were prepared from 10,075 anonymized formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissues and examined for PrP(res) with two anti-prion protein antibodies, ICMS35 and KG9. One specimen showed a single strongly positive follicle with both antibodies, on two slides from adjacent sections. As this specimen was negative when it was further investigated by EIA, IHC, and immunoblotting, it is unclear whether the patient from whom the tonsil came will go on to develop vCJD. If, however, this is the case, then a finding of 1 out of 9160 gives a prevalence of disease-related prion protein in the British population of 109 per million, with a 95% confidence interval (CI) of 3-608 per million, which is not statistically different (exact p = 0.63) from population prevalence estimates based on finding three positives out of 10 278 in a previous IHC study of appendix tissue. If this is not the case, a finding of 0 out of 9160 gives a prevalence of 0-403 per million (95% CI) for the 1961-1985 cohort, which is also not different (exact p = 0.25) from previous population prevalence estimates. Therefore, the results of this work could be summarized as finding, by IHC, no or one vCJD-positive individual.

UI  - 20847405
TI  - ERK2 is increased in cerebrospinal fluid of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease patients.
AB  - The clinical diagnosis of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) can be supported by several biochemical markers in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) such as 14-3-3 proteins and tau protein. Unfortunately, none of the currently known markers are suited for screening or seems to be directly related to the pathophysiological process. A marker fulfilling these criteria might facilitate the early detection and might also serve in monitoring drug efficacy. Recently, the extracellular signal-regulated kinase ERK1/2 was detected in CSF of patients with neuropsychiatric disorders. Furthermore, ERK1/2 was reported to be activated in brains of animals infected with pathological prion protein. Therefore, we investigated CSF of 19 patients with CJD, 23 patients with other dementias including patients with Alzheimer's disease, and 12 patients with other neurological disorders. The measurement of ERK1/2 in the CSF samples was performed with an electrochemiluminescence assay and Western immunoblot. ERK1/2 and doubly phosphorylated ERK1/2 (pERK1/2) were detected in all patient groups. Significantly elevated mean levels of total ERK1/2 and pERK1/2 were found in the CJD patients. This increase was also observed in a CJD case that was negative for 14-3-3 protein or in CJD cases that had low levels of tau protein. Western immunoblot analysis suggested that ERK2 was the predominant form of ERKs present in our CSF samples. This pilot study suggests that ERK1/2 is a potential CSF biomarker for CJD, directly associated with the pathophysiological processes. Analysis of larger sample cohorts including other diseases with rapid neurodegeneration are required to confirm our findings.

UI  - 20517937
TI  - Validation of diagnostic criteria for variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.
AB  - This study confirms that the diagnostic criteria for vCJD are sensitive and specific and provide a useful standard framework for case classification in a surveillance setting.

UI  - 20345513
TI  - Phase I/II safety study of transfusion of prion-filtered red cell concentrates in transfusion-dependent patients.
AB  - This phase 1/11 clinical study provides encouraging data on safety of prion filtration which can be used to plan more extensive studies on the use of filtered blood in adults and children.

UI  - 20105449
TI  - No evidence for prion protein gene locus multiplication in Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.
AB  - Precedent of causative multiplication of key gene loci exists in familial forms of both Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases. Genetic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) is often clinically indistinguishable from sporadic disease and inexplicably, a negative family history of a similar disorder occurs in around 50-90% of patients harboring the most common, disease-associated, prion protein gene (PRNP) mutations. We undertook semi-quantitative analysis of the PRNP copy number in 112 CJD patients using quantitative polymerase chain reaction. All included cases satisfied classification criteria for probable or definite sporadic CJD, ascertained as part of longstanding, prospective, national surveillance activities. No examples of additional copies of the PRNP locus as an explanation for their disease was found in any of the 112 sporadic CJD patients. Hence, contrasting with more common, age-related neurodegenerative diseases, the genetic aetiology in human prion disease continues to appear entirely restricted to small scale mutations within a single gene, with no evidence of multiplication of this validated candidate gene locus as a cause.

UI  - 20007724
TI  - High-b-value diffusion MR imaging and basal nuclei apparent diffusion coefficient measurements in variant and sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.
AB  - Our results demonstrate that b = 3000 DWI, being more sensitive to slowly diffusing tissue water, is more sensitive to pathology in sCJD than is conventional DWI. High-b-value DWI increases confidence in the radiologic diagnosis of human prion disease.

UI  - 19773352
TI  - Updated clinical diagnostic criteria for sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.
AB  - Several molecular subtypes of sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease have been identified and electroencephalogram and cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers have been reported to support clinical diagnosis but with variable utility according to subtype. In recent years, a series of publications have demonstrated a potentially important role for magnetic resonance imaging in the pre-mortem diagnosis of sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. Magnetic resonance imaging signal alterations correlate with distinct sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease molecular subtypes and thus might contribute to the earlier identification of the whole spectrum of sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease cases. This multi-centre international study aimed to provide a rationale for the amendment of the clinical diagnostic criteria for sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. Patients with sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease and fluid attenuated inversion recovery or diffusion-weight imaging were recruited from 12 countries. Patients referred as 'suspected sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease' but with an alternative diagnosis after thorough follow up, were analysed as controls. All magnetic resonance imaging scans were assessed for signal changes according to a standard protocol encompassing seven cortical regions, basal ganglia, thalamus and cerebellum. Magnetic resonance imaging scans were evaluated in 436 sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease patients and 141 controls. The pattern of high signal intensity with the best sensitivity and specificity in the differential diagnosis of sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease was identified. The optimum diagnostic accuracy in the differential diagnosis of rapid progressive dementia was obtained when either at least two cortical regions (temporal, parietal or occipital) or both caudate nucleus and putamen displayed a high signal in fluid attenuated inversion recovery or diffusion-weight imaging magnetic resonance imaging. Based on our analyses, magnetic resonance imaging was positive in 83% of cases. In all definite cases, the amended criteria would cover the vast majority of suspected cases, being positive in 98%. Cerebral cortical signal increase and high signal in caudate nucleus and putamen on fluid attenuated inversion recovery or diffusion-weight imaging magnetic resonance imaging are useful in the diagnosis of sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. We propose an amendment to the clinical diagnostic criteria for sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease to include findings from magnetic resonance imaging scans.

UI  - 19506221
TI  - MRI lesion profiles in sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.
AB  - Cortical signal increase and hyperintensities in the basal ganglia and thalamus are detected by MRI across all molecular sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease subtypes. Our findings argue that characteristic MRI lesion patterns may occur for each molecular subtype.

UI  - 19460798
TI  - Prevalence of disease related prion protein in anonymous tonsil specimens in Britain: cross sectional opportunistic survey.
AB  - The observed prevalence of PrP(CJD) in tonsils from the 1961-95 combined birth cohort was 0/32 661 with a 95% confidence interval of 0 to 113 per million. In the 1961-85 cohort, the prevalence of zero with a 95% confidence interval of 0 to 289 per million was lower than, but still consistent with, a previous survey of appendix tissue that showed a prevalence of 292 per million with a 95% confidence interval of 60 to 853 per million. Continuing to archive and test tonsil specimens, especially in older birth cohorts, and other complementary large scale anonymous tissue surveys, particularly of post-mortem tissues, will further refine the calculated prevalence of PrP(CJD).

UI  - 18624793
TI  - Inter-laboratory assessment of PrPSc typing in creutzfeldt-jakob disease: a Western blot study within the NeuroPrion Consortium.
AB  - Molecular typing is of considerable importance for the surveillance and epidemiology of human transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSEs). It relies on the detection of distinct protease-resistant prion protein (PrP(Sc)) core fragments that differ in molecular mass and/or glycoform ratio. In this collaborative study, we tested the inter-laboratory agreement in TSE molecular typing. Sixteen characterized brain specimens from sporadic TSEs and variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (vCJD) cases were distributed blindly to seven laboratories for molecular characterization by a defined protocol and classification. Agreement between laboratories in the classification of samples was excellent. In particular, there were no differences in the distinction between PrP(Sc) type 1, type 2A, and type 2B with one exception, which eventually was identified as a case with types 1 and 2 co-occurrence. This shows that the general technique and particular classification system used here are robust and represent a reliable basis for diagnostic and epidemiologic purposes. The subtle further distinction of subtypes among type 1 and type 2 groups requires high-sensitivity gel electrophoresis protocols that are unsuitable for routine diagnostic needs and must be reserved for research investigations. Further research is necessary on the identification and significance of co-occurrence of PrP(Sc) types 1 and 2 within one brain.

UI  - 17506734
TI  - The use of single-use devices in anaesthesia: balancing the risks to patient safety.
AB  - Single-use devices are designed, manufactured and sold to be used once and then discarded. This paper addresses growing concerns about the quality of some devices. Single-use devices, manufactured at a lower cost to justify their disposal, are perceived to have a lesser efficacy, which may threaten patient safety through iatrogenic harm. There is, in addition, growing scepticism about the actual risk of contracting variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease and other blood-borne diseases from reused surgical instruments. Interview data suggests that when choosing to use a single-use device, clinicians balance concerns about the risk of infection against those about the risk of injury. However, despite reservations about induced harm and the unknown risk of an iatrogenic disease, most clinicians would want single-use devices used on themselves and their family if they were patients.

UI  - 17446349
TI  - Mortality rates, life expectancy, and causes of death in people with hemophilia A or B in the United Kingdom who were not infected with HIV.
AB  - Since the 1970s, mortality in the hemophilia population has been dominated by human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and few reports have described mortality in uninfected individuals. This study presents mortality in 6018 people with hemophilia A or B in the United Kingdom during 1977 to 1998 who were not infected with HIV, with follow-up until January 1, 2000. Given disease severity and factor inhibitor status, all-cause mortality did not differ significantly between hemophilia A and hemophilia B. In severe hemophilia, all-cause mortality did not change significantly during 1977 to 1999. During this period, it exceeded mortality in the general population by a factor of 2.69 (95% confidence interval [CI]: 2.37-3.05), and median life expectancy in severe hemophilia was 63 years. In moderate/mild hemophilia, all-cause mortality did not change significantly during 1985 to 1999, and median life expectancy was 75 years. Compared with mortality in the general population, mortality from bleeding and its consequences, and from liver diseases and Hodgkin disease, was increased, but for ischemic heart disease it was lower, at only 62% (95% CI: 51%-76%) of general population rates, and for 14 other specific causes it did not differ significantly from general population rates. There was no evidence of any death from variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease or from conditions that could be confused with it.

UI  - 17385081
TI  - Influence of timing on CSF tests value for Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease diagnosis.
AB  - Sensitivity and absolute levels of CJD markers increased with disease progression and were modulated by the codon 129 genotype. Early negative results should be inter-preted with caution, especially in young patients or those who are MV at codon 129.

UI  - 16924032
TI  - CSF BACE1 activity is increased in CJD and Alzheimer disease versus [corrected] other dementias.
AB  - To assess the diagnostic utility of CSF BACE1 activity for discriminating Alzheimer disease (AD) from other dementias, particularly Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD), the authors studied 26 patients with sporadic CJD, 21 patients with AD, and 21 patients with various non-AD, non-CJD dementias (DCs). CSF BACE1 activity was elevated in AD in comparison with DC (p = 0.01). Unexpectedly, CSF BACE1 activity was also increased in sporadic CJD (p = 0.02).

UI  - 16924018
TI  - CSF tests in the differential diagnosis of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.
AB  - The detection of elevated levels of brain-derived proteins in the CSF in patients with suspected Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease is a valuable diagnostic test. A second lumbar puncture may be of value in patients with atypical clinical course in whom the first test was negative.

UI  - 16816392
TI  - Determinants of diagnostic investigation sensitivities across the clinical spectrum of sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.
AB  - To validate the provisional findings of a number of smaller studies and explore additional determinants of characteristic diagnostic investigation results across the entire clinical spectrum of sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD), an international collaborative study was undertaken comprising 2451 pathologically confirmed (definite) patients. We assessed the influence of age at disease onset, illness duration, prion protein gene (PRNP) codon 129 polymorphism (either methionine or valine) and molecular sub-type on the diagnostic sensitivity of EEG, cerebral MRI and the CSF 14-3-3 immunoassay. For EEG and CSF 14-3-3 protein detection, we also assessed the influence of the time point in a patient's illness at which the investigation was performed on the likelihood of a typical or positive result. Analysis included a large subset of patients (n = 743) in whom molecular sub-typing had been performed using a combination of the PRNP codon 129 polymorphism and the form of protease resistant prion protein [type 1 or 2 according to Parchi et al. (Parchi P, Giese A, Capellari S, Brown P, Schulz-Schaeffer W, Windl O, Zerr I, Budka H, Kopp N, Piccardo P, Poser S, Rojiani A, Streichemberger N, Julien J, Vital C, Ghetti B, Gambetti P, Kretzschmar H. Classification of sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease based on molecular and phenotypic analysis of 300 subjects. Ann Neurol 1999; 46: 224-233.)] present in the brain. Findings for the whole group paralleled the subset with molecular sub-typing data available, showing that age at disease onset and disease duration were independent determinants of typical changes on EEG, while illness duration significantly influenced positive CSF 14-3-3 protein detection; changes on brain MRI were not influenced by either of these clinical parameters, but overall, imaging data were less complete and consequently conclusions are more tentative. In addition to age at disease onset and illness duration, molecular sub-type was re-affirmed as an important independent determinant of investigation results. In multivariate analyses that included molecular sub-type, time point of the investigation during a patient's illness was found not to influence the occurrence of a typical or positive EEG or CSF 14-3-3 protein result. A typical EEG was most often seen in MM1 patients and was significantly less likely in the MV1, MV2 and VV2 sub-types, whereas VV2 patients had an increased likelihood of a typical brain MRI. Overall, the CSF 14-3-3 immunoassay was the most frequently positive investigation (88.1%) but performed significantly less well in the very uncommon MV2 and MM2 sub-types. Our findings confirm a number of determinants of principal investigation results in sporadic CJD and underscore the importance of recognizing these pre-test limitations before accepting the diagnosis excluded or confirmed. Combinations of investigations offer the best chance of detection, especially for the less common molecular sub-types such as MV2 and MM2.

UI  - 16704584
TI  - High concentration potassium permanganate eliminates protein and particle contamination of the reusable Classic laryngeal mask airway.
AB  - In this three-stage study, we test the hypothesis that supplementary cleaning with potassium permanganate > or =4 mg.l(-1) eliminates protein and particle contamination from the reusable Classic laryngeal mask airway. The first stage involved supplementary cleaning of 70 1 x 1 cm segments from deliberately contaminated laryngeal mask airways using potassium permanganate at 0, 2, 4, 8, 16, 32 and 64 mg.l(-1) and testing for protein staining. This showed that the lowest concentration required to eliminate protein contamination was 8 mg.l(-1). The second stage involved supplementary cleaning of 50 used laryngeal mask airways with either potassium permanganate 8 mg.l(-1) or saline and testing for protein staining. This showed that protein contamination was lower in the potassium permanganate group (p < 0.00001): all laryngeal mask airways in the control group and none in the potassium permanganate group were contaminated. The third stage involved scanning electron microscopic examination of 1 x 1 cm segments from three laryngeal mask airways used in the control group, three from the potassium permanganate group, plus three brand new laryngeal mask airways. The mean density of > or =1 mum surface particles was lower in the potassium permanganate 8 mg.l(-1) than the control group (21 vs. 121 .cm(-2), p < 0.0001) and was similar to brand new laryngeal mask airways (24 .cm(-2)). We conclude that supplementary cleaning with potassium permanganate 8 mg.l(-1) eliminates protein deposits from reusable laryngeal mask airways and reduces particle contamination to similar levels to brand new laryngeal mask airways.

UI  - 16298235
TI  - Dissociation between CSF total tau and tau protein phosphorylated at threonine 231 in Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.
AB  - To study the potential diagnostic value of abnormally phosphorylated tau protein in Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) compared to Alzheimer's disease (AD), we determined levels of tau phosphorylated at threonine 231 (p-tau231) and of total tau (t-tau) in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of CJD patients, AD patients, and healthy controls (HC). CJD patients showed excessively high t-tau levels but relatively low p-tau(231) concentrations compared to the AD group. t-tau alone yielded the best diagnostic accuracy to differentiate between CJD and AD patients, when compared to p-tau231 and the p-tau231/t-tau ratio (97, 78, and 95% correctly allocated cases, respectively). Our findings indicate a dissociation in the direction of change in CSF levels of t-tau and p-tau231 in CJD when compared to AD.

UI  - 16287900
TI  - The use of an anaesthetic simulator to assess single-use laryngoscopy equipment.
AB  - Single-use equipment, as presently recommended for tonsillectomy surgery by the UK Department of Health, makes laryngoscopy more difficult for anaesthetists.

UI  - 15883321
TI  - Mortality from Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease and related disorders in Europe, Australia, and Canada.
AB  - This study has established overall epidemiologic characteristics for Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) of all types in a multinational population-based study. Intercountry comparisons did not suggest any relative change in the characteristics of sporadic CJD in the United Kingdom, and the evidence in this study does not suggest the occurrence of a novel form of human bovine spongiform encephalopathy infection other than variant CJD. However, this remains a possibility, and countries currently unaffected by variant CJD may yet have cases.

UI  - 15819670
TI  - Variation in concentration of prion protein in the peripheral blood of patients with variant and sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease detected by dissociation enhanced lanthanide fluoroimmunoassay and flow cytometry.
AB  - There are differences in free and cell-associated PrP found in blood of CJD patients and control groups, some of which might be useful with other tests in disease profiling as an aid to diagnoses.

UI  - 15471179
TI  - Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease in Slovenia from 1985 to 2003.
AB  - The small number of Slovenian cases of sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease during the last 19 years has shown a pronounced increase in incidence, reflecting improved surveillance, and a high female to male ratio, where female cases are more than twice as numerous as male cases.

UI  - 15361416
TI  - Predictors of survival in sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease and other human transmissible spongiform encephalopathies.
AB  - A collaborative study of human transmissible spongiform encephalopathies has been carried out from 1993 to 2000 and includes data from 10 national registries, the majority in Western Europe. In this study, we present analyses of predictors of survival in sporadic (n = 2304), iatrogenic (n = 106) and variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (n = 86) and in cases associated with mutations of the prion protein gene (n = 278), including Gerstmann-Strussler-Scheinker syndrome (n = 24) and fatal familial insomnia (n = 41). Overall survival for each disease type was assessed by the Kaplan-Meier method and the multivariate analyses by the Cox proportional hazards model. In sporadic disease, longer survival was correlated with younger age at onset of illness, female gender, codon 129 heterozygosity, presence of CSF 14-3-3 protein and type 2a prion protein type. The ability to predict survival based on patient covariates is important for diagnosis and counselling, and the characterization of the survival distributions, in the absence of therapy, will be an important starting point for the assessment of potential therapeutic agents in the future.

UI  - 15221931
TI  - Prevalence of lymphoreticular prion protein accumulation in UK tissue samples.
AB  - This study aims to provide an estimate of the number of individuals in the UK who may be incubating variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease and at risk of causing iatrogenic spread of the disease. Lymphoreticular accumulation of prion protein is a consistent feature of variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob at autopsy and has also been demonstrated in the pre-clinical phase. Immunohistochemical accumulation of prion protein in the lymphoreticular system remains the only technique that has been shown to predict neurological disease reliably in animal prion disorders. In this study, immunohistochemistry was used to demonstrate the presence of prion protein, with monoclonal antibodies KG9 and 3F4, in surgically removed tonsillectomy and appendicectomy specimens. The samples were collected from histopathology departments across the UK and anonymised prior to testing. Samples were tested from 16 703 patients (14 964 appendectomies, 1739 tonsillectomies), approximately 60% of whom were from the age group 20-29 years at operation. Twenty-five per cent of the samples were excluded from the final analyses because they contained inadequate amounts of lymphoid tissue. Three appendicectomy samples showed lymphoreticular accumulation of prion protein, giving an estimated prevalence of 3/12 674 or 237 per million (95% CI 49-692 per million). The pattern of lymphoreticular accumulation in two of these samples was dissimilar from that seen in known cases of variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. Although it is uncertain whether immunohistochemical accumulation of prion protein in the lymphoreticular system is specific for variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, it has not been described in any other disease, including other forms of human prion disease or a range of inflammatory and infective conditions. These findings reinforce the importance of measures taken by the UK Department of Health to reduce the risk of spread of variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob via blood products and surgical instruments, and of the urgency to proceed with large-scale screening of fresh tonsil specimens for the presence of prion protein.

UI  - 15007119
TI  - Efficacy of flupirtine on cognitive function in patients with CJD: A double-blind study.
AB  - FLU has beneficial effects on cognitive function in patients with CJD. These positive results also may suggest a treatment potential of FLU in other neurodegenerative disorders. However, further studies are necessary.

UI  - 14739538
TI  - Results of quinacrine administration to patients with Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.
AB  - Several chemicals inhibit the accumulation of abnormal prion proteins in vitro. We administered one, the antimalarial agent quinacrine, to three patients with sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) and to one with iatrogenic CJD. Quinacrine at 300 mg/day was given enterally for 3 months. Within 2 weeks of administration, the arousal level of the patient with akinetic mutism improved. The other 3 patients, insensible before treatment, had integrative responses such as eye contact or voluntary movement in response to verbal and/or visual stimuli restored. Clinical improvement was transient, lasting 1-2 months during treatment. Quinacrine was well tolerated, except for liver dysfunction and yellowish pigmentation. Although its antiprion activity in the human brain has yet to be proved, these modest effects of quinacrine suggest the possibility of using chemical intervention against prion diseases.

UI  - 12913197
TI  - 14-3-3 protein in the CSF of patients with rapidly progressive dementia.
AB  - The detection of 14-3-3 protein in CSF is a useful in vivo diagnostic test for CJD and, when used in the appropriate clinical context, shows a good correlation to CJD. The presence of the 14-3-3 protein in the CSF reinforces the CJD clinical diagnosis but may not be able to differentiate CJD from other causes of rapidly progressive dementia in everyday clinical practice.

UI  - 12911359
TI  - A comparison of the forces exerted during laryngoscopy using disposable and non-disposable laryngoscope blades.
AB  - The concern that re-usable equipment may be a source of cross-infection has prompted the increased use of disposable laryngoscope blades. We conducted a study investigating the duration of laryngoscopy and the peak force generated using various laryngoscope blades. Five blades were studied: one reusable Macintosh 3 blade, one disposable metal blade and three plastic disposable blades. Sixty anaesthetists performed laryngoscopy on a mannequin using each of the five blades presented in a random order. This was then repeated with a rigid collar applied to the mannequin. The mean force applied with the collar off with the metal blades was 32.8 and 30.8 N, and with the plastic blades 37.3, 39.6 and 41.5 N, respectively (p < 0.0001). The mean force applied with the collar on with the metal blades was 30.5 and 32.5 N, and with the plastic blades 35.5, 34.9 and 31.4 N, respectively (p < 0.0001). The mean duration of laryngoscopy with the collar off for the metal blades was 5.6 and 5.4 s, and with the plastic blades 10, 7.2 and 7.5 s (p < 0.0001). The duration of laryngoscopy with the collar applied for the metal blades was 7.1 and 7.5 s, and with the plastic blades 11.8, 9.7 and 9.0 s (p < 0.0001). The use of plastic blades results in both greater peak force and duration of laryngoscopy.

UI  - 12881189
TI  - Hypothalamic-mediated model for Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease: relation to hemispheric chemical dominance.
AB  - The isoprenoid pathway including endogenous digoxin was assessed in Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease (CJD). This was also studied for comparison in patients with right hemispheric and left hemispheric dominance. The isoprenoid pathway was upregulated with increased digoxin synthesis in patients with CJD and in those with right hemispheric chemical dominance. In this group of patients (i) the tryptophan catabolites were increased and the tyrosine catabolites reduced, (ii) the dolichol and glycoconjugate levels were elevated, (iii) lysosomal stability was reduced, (iv) ubiquinone levels were low and free radical levels increased, and (v) the membrane cholesterol:phospholipid ratios were increased and membrane glyco conjugates reduced. On the other hand, in patients with left hemispheric chemical dominance, the reverse patterns were obtained. The role of the isoprenoid pathway in the pathogenesis of CJD and its relation to hemispheric chemical dominance is discussed.

UI  - 12574955
TI  - Accuracy of diffusion-weighted MR imaging in the diagnosis of sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.
AB  - The definitive diagnosis of sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (sCJD) is based on brain autopsy. The 14-3-3 analysis in the CSF is considered a highly sensitive and specific procedure. Sensitivity, specificity and accuracy of EEG, the 14-3-3 assay and MR imaging in 12 patients referred for suspected sCJD were calculated. We suggest that diffusion-weighted MR imaging (DWI) should be included in the array of diagnostic tests because of the 100 % sensitivity and specificity.

UI  - 12492669
TI  - A comparison of simulated difficult intubation with multiple-use and single-use bougies in a manikin.
AB  - In a randomised cross-over study, 20 anaesthetists attempted to place a multiple- or single-use bougie in the trachea of a manikin, in which a grade 3 Cormack and Lehane laryngoscopic view was simulated. The anaesthetists made two attempts at placement with each bougie and were blinded to success (tracheal placement) or failure (oesophageal placement). The success rates for the first attempts with the multiple- and single-use bougies were 85 and 15%, respectively [mean (95% CI) difference between the two bougies 70% (40-84%); p < 0.001]. The success rates for the second attempts were similar to those for the first attempts with both bougies. There is an increased risk of failure to intubate the trachea when using a single-use bougie, and this must be weighed against the unquantified risk of cross-infection from prions when using a multiple-use bougie.

UI  - 12483414
TI  - Multitracer study with positron emission tomography in Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.
AB  - During the period February 1997 to April 2000, 15 patients with clinical symptoms of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) were referred to Uppsala University PET Centre. Positron emission tomography (PET) was performed to detect characteristic signs of the disease, e.g. neuronal death and/or astrocytosis in the brain. The examinations were performed in one session starting with oxygen-15 labelled water scan to measure regional cerebral blood flow, followed by imaging with the monoamine oxidase B inhibitor N-[(11)C-methyl]- L-deuterodeprenyl (DED) to assess astrocytosis in the brain and finally imaging with fluor-18 2-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) to assess regional cerebral glucose metabolism (rCMR(glu)) [corrected]. Nine of the patients fulfilled the clinical criteria of probable CJD. In eight of them, FDG and DED imaging revealed, in comparison with normal controls, a typical pattern characterized by a pronounced regional decrease (<2SD) in glucose brain metabolism, indicative of neuronal dysfunction; this was accompanied by a similar increase (>2SD) in DED binding, indicating astrocytosis. These changes were most pronounced in the cerebellum and the frontal, occipital and parietal cortices, whereas the pons, the thalamus and the putamen were less affected and the temporal cortex appeared unaffected. The cerebral blood flow showed a pattern similar to that observed with FDG. In the ninth patient, analysis with DED was not possible. The diagnosis of definite CJD according to international consensus criteria was confirmed in six of these patients. In one patient with probable CJD, protease-resistant prion protein (PrPres) could not be demonstrated. In two patients with probable CJD, autopsy was not allowed. Computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging, performed in four and seven of these nine patients respectively, showed unspecific, mainly atrophic changes. In six other patients, the PET examinations gave a different pattern. In three of them, high rCMR(glu) was noticed in parts of the brain, particularly in the temporal lobes and basal ganglia, which could suggest encephalitis. One of the patients had Sjgren's syndrome, one had paraneoplastic limbic encephalitis and the third recovered spontaneously. In the other three patients, the DED binding was normal despite a hypometabolic glucose pattern. In conclusion, the PET findings obtained using DED and FDG paralleled neuropathological findings indicating neuronal dysfunction and astrocytosis, changes that are found in CJD.

UI  - 12223030
TI  - Impairment of the peripheral nervous system in Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.
AB  - In sporadic cases of CJD, peripheral nervous system impairment should be considered to be an integral component of disease.

UI  - 12088696
TI  - PLEDs in Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease following a cadaveric dural graft.
AB  - We report on a 61-year-old man who received a cadaveric dura mater graft and developed CJD 14 years later. Periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges (PLEDs) were observed predominantly in the right hemisphere, coinciding with the location of the dural graft, the presumed source of the CJD agent and PLEDs seen in this case finally developed into PSDs. A similar case has not been reported in the literature and we believe this case serves to further the understanding of the pathophysiology of CJD.

UI  - 11115241
TI  - Magnetic resonance imaging in the clinical diagnosis of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.
AB  - These results indicate that MRI is a useful and valuable tool with reasonable sensitivity (67%) and high specificity (93%) and should be considered as an additional cornerstone in the clinical diagnosis of CJD.

UI  - 10953182
TI  - 14-3-3 testing in diagnosing Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease: a prospective study in 112 patients.
AB  - The 14-3-3 protein is a highly sensitive and specific marker for CJD when used in the appropriate clinical context.

UI  - 10941953
TI  - European surveillance on Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease: a case-control study for medical risk factors.
AB  - Medical risk factors for Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) were analyzed in a prospective ongoing case-control study based on European CJD surveillance. Detailed data on past and recent medical history were analyzed in 405 cases and controls matched by sex, age, and hospital. Data were correlated with polymorphism at codon 129 of the prion protein gene. Our analysis did not support a number of previously reported associations and failed to identify any common medical risk factor for CJD. Although not statistically significant, brain surgery was associated with an increased risk of CJD. A detailed medical history should be obtained in every suspected CJD case in order to identify iatrogenic sources of CJD.

UI  - 10068257
TI  - 14-3-3 protein, neuron-specific enolase, and S-100 protein in cerebrospinal fluid of patients with Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.
AB  - We explored simultaneously 14-3-3 protein, neuron-specific enolase (NSE), and one astroglial protein, S-100, recently proposed as Creutzfeld-Jakob disease (CJD) markers, in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of 129 patients with suspected CJD. Cutoff values for NSE and S-100 were established at 25 and 2.5 ng/ml, respectively. The highest sensitivity was observed for S-100 (94.2%) followed by 14-3-3 (89.8%) and NSE (79.7%), while the highest specificity in CJD diagnosis was obtained with 14-3-3 protein (100%) as compared with NSE (91.5%) and S-100 (85.4%). No influence of sex, genotype at codon 129 of the prion protein gene, time between sampling, and death or disease duration has been found. Based on 90 cases initially referred as 'probable' or 'possible' CJD, with 14-3-3, NSE, or S-100 we could correctly discriminate between 'CJD' or 'non-CJD' categories in 94.4, 86.5, and 90% of the cases, respectively. When limited to 'possible CJD' cases, diagnosis based on one of the three CSF proteins was accurate in 98, 90.7 and 87.3%, respectively. In view of the fact that the CSF 14-3-3 protein test alone has the highest specificity and good sensitivity, it appears that there is no additional advantage at the moment to include NSE and/or S-100 protein in the exploration of clinically suspected CJD cases.

UI  - 9988133
TI  - Parahippocampal pathology in Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.
AB  - On the contrary, our findings also raise the possibility that the parasubiculum and the external principal lamina of the presubiculum may be the structures most vulnerable to early lesions in the parahippocampal gyrus in CJD. To know the pathogenesis of these lesions may be the clue to delineate the mechanisms by which the neurons could be spared.

UI  - 9844036
TI  - Penetrance and phenotypic expression of a mutation linked to Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease in the elderly.
AB  - We have previously reported several carriers of the PRNP E200K point mutation among subjects aged over 65 years. In order to examine the prevalence of this mutation among demented subjects of Libyan and Tunisian origin and the clinical characteristics associated with it, we screened 58 elderly subjects belonging to this ethnic group. Five mutation carriers were identified, all of whom had cognitive deterioration consistent with primary degenerative dementia. All had low Hachinski ischemic scores (0.8 +/- 0.8, mean +/- SD) as compared with noncarriers (6.7 +/- 3.0; p = 0.011, Wilcoxon rank sum test). In addition to the cognitive decline, 4 carriers had additional cerebellar, pyramidal, or extrapyramidal findings compatible with the diagnosis of possible or probable Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.

UI  - 9061687
TI  - Prion protein immunocytochemistry--UK five centre consensus report.
AB  - Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) and other prion diseases are associated with the deposition of insoluble prion protein (PrPCJD) in the central nervous system (CNS). Antibodies raised against PrPCJD also react with its precursor protein, a soluble form of PrP (PrPC), which is widely distributed in the normal CNS. This cross-reactivity has in the past raised doubts as to the specificity and diagnostic reliability of PrP immunolocalization, especially in familial cases which are atypical clinically and which lack characteristic pathology findings. Following an MRC-funded workshop which focused on this problem, a multicentre prospective study was set up to identify a reliable protocol for PrPCJD immunocytochemistry. Five UK centres took part in this study and demonstrated consistent staining of plaques, vacuolar deposits in severe spongiform change, and perineuronal deposits using a variety of antibodies and enhancement procedures. A protocol using formic acid, guanidine thiocyanate, and hydrated autoclaving pre-treatment in conjunction with a monoclonal PrPCJD antibody produced the clearest immunochemical results and is presented as the consensus UK recommendation for PrPCJD immunocytochemical procedures.

UI  - 8708680
TI  - Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease in Austria.
AB  - Between 1969 and 30 September 1995, 79 Austrian patients had Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) diagnosed neuropathologically by necropsy or biopsy. The annual incidence has significantly increased in recent years (average 0.18 per million in 1969-85, and 0.67 per million in 1986-94; estimate for 1995: 1.5 per million). Also, the percentage of patients with CJD over 70 years at death increased significantly until 1989 but is since in decline. There is no regional clustering, familial occurrence, or recognised iatrogenic risk. One patient had a 10 year history of intramuscular injection of purified bovine RNA preparation (Regeneresen) from various organs including the brian. The ages at death are symmetrically distributed around the median of 64 years. The median duration of disease is four months. Most patients (76%) died within six months of onset. Retrospectively, 86% of patients fulfilled clinical criteria of probable or possible CJD. Neuropathology showed the classic triad of spongiform change, astrogliosis, and neuronal loss in most cases. Two cases did not show unequivocal tissue alterations, but anti-PrP immunocytochemistry detected PrP deposits also in these cases. It is concluded that the recent rise in incidence of CJD in Austria most likely reflects increased awareness and diagnosis of CJD rather than a real increase. As bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) has not been reported in Austria, the data do not support a link between a rise in incidence of sporadic CJD and BSE.

UI  - 8639066
TI  - Accuracy and reliability of periodic sharp wave complexes in Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.
AB  - This blinded electroencephalographic study in Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease confirms the high diagnostic value of electroencephalography, as previously reported by open studies.

UI  - 8584252
TI  - Apolipoprotein E in sporadic and familial Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.
AB  - We assessed the apolipoprotein E (ApoE) genotype in 49 sporadic and ten familial Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) patients, in seven healthy siblings with a PRNP mutation and in 84 controls. In sporadic CJD, ApoE genotypes and allelic frequencies do not significantly differ from that of controls. No influence of ApoE genotypes on age at onset was found. In familial cases, the disease appeared in mutated subjects showing the same ApoE genotype as members who have not yet developed CJD. Our results provide further evidence that ApoE is not a risk factor for CJD.

UI  - 385323
TI  - Jakob-Creutzfeldt disease: analysis of EEG and evoked potentials under basal conditions and neuroactive drugs.
AB  - EEG and evoked potential (EP) recordings of a female (aged 70) affected with Jakob-Creutzfeldt disease (JCD) are reported. A comparison of neurophysiological tests under basal conditions and pharmacological stimulation with methylphenidate, diazepam and piracetam was performed. Diazepam and methylphenidate produced a flattening of triphasic complexes and changes in background activity; piracetam did not seem to influence the abnormal brain bioelectrical environment. The authors conclude that EEG and EP abnormalities in JCD can be ascribed to two separate and interacting sources: (1) exaggerated massive excitatory input coming from a deep thalamic pace-maker throughout the diffuse projecting system, and (2) lack of inhibitory intracortical mechanisms.
