
UI  - 24968533
TI  - Study of optimal basal insulin glargine dose requirement in Indian population as an add on therapy to oral hypoglycaemic agents to achieve target fasting blood glucose levels.
AB  - Optimal dosing of basal insulin is needed to achieve target fasting blood glucose and to avoid hypoglycaemia on the other hand in patients of type 2 diabetes on bedtime basal insulin and daytime sulfonylureas. This is an open label, randomised prospective study done in 40 type 2 diabetics having uncontrolled diabetes. Statistical analysis was performed by the SPSS programme for windows, version 17.0. Continuous variables are presented as mean +/- SD, and categorical variables are presented as absolute numbers and percentage. Data were checked for normality before statistical analysis. Normally distributed continuous variables were compared from baseline to 12th week using paired t-test. The average dose requirement of insulin glargine was 33.55 +/- 11.94 units (mean +/- SD). The average insulin glargine dose requirement per kg body weight was 0.48 +/- 0.17 units/kg body weight. The range of insulin dose was 0.23 to 0.96 units/kg body weight. Dose titration is patient specific and should be done in order to achieve target fasting blood glucose.

UI  - 24956865
TI  - [Infect of pingshen decoction on serum HGF, Cys C and TGF-beta1 diabetic nephropathy in early stage].
AB  - Study the serum level of HGF, Cys C and TGF-beta1 in type 2 diabetic nephropathy (DN), the infect of Pingshen decoction on those index. Selected 69 cases of 2 type DN and randomly divided into therapy group (36 cases) and control group (33 cases). The therapy group were treated with Pingshen decoction 1 dose/d, bid po. The control group were treated with NephritisShu tablet, 6 tablet, tid po. 8 weeks was a course. Before and after treatment, we examine the serum level of HGF, Cys C and TGF-beta1 by ELISA and immunonephelometry, and compare with 30 cases of healthy control group. The study demonstrates that before treatment, the serum level of HGF in both groups were significantly lower than healthy control group (P < 0.01), but Cys C, TGF-beta1 were significantly higher (P < 0.01). After treatment, the serum level of HGF of both groups were increased. The serum level of HGF of therapy group were significantly higher than of control group (P < 0.01), but the serum level of Cys C and TGF-beta1 were significantly lower than control group (P < 0.01). The serum level of HGF was correlated negatively with Cys C,TGF-beta1. In control group, the UAER, urine beta2-MG and quantity of 24-hour urine protein were significantly decreased after treatment (P < 0.01). The index of urine of therapy group were significantly lower than control group (P < 0.01). Results indicate that test of serum level of HGF and Cys C,TGF-beta1 of diabetic nephropathy have important clinical significance. Pingshen decoction can effectively intervene in the serum level of HGF and Cys C, TGF-beta1 and index of urine.

UI  - 24931572
TI  - Outpatient glycemic control with a bionic pancreas in type 1 diabetes.
AB  - As compared with an insulin pump, a wearable, automated, bihormonal, bionic pancreas improved mean glycemic levels, with less frequent hypoglycemic episodes, among both adults and adolescents with type 1 diabetes mellitus. (Funded by the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases and others; ClinicalTrials.gov numbers, NCT01762059 and NCT01833988.).

UI  - 24901133
TI  - Efficacy and safety of sitagliptin for the treatment of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease with type 2 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - Sitagliptin for the treatment of NAFLD with type2 DM was safe and showed similar antidiabetic effects as reported for type 2 DM, suggesting that tight glycemic control would contribute to the improvement of NAFLD based from the findings of correlation between the changes of HbA1c and transaminases.

UI  - 24880969
TI  - [Evaluation of the DIABOBHU Observational Study].
AB  - The authors emphasize that this treatment based on an analogue basal insulin should be considered as an effective and safe therapy.

UI  - 24820924
TI  - Effectiveness and tolerability of second-line therapy with vildagliptin versus other oral agents in type 2 diabetes (EDGE): post-hoc subanalysis of the Belgian data.
AB  - In this EDGE subgroup of Belgian patients with type 2 diabetes who do not achieve the glycemic targets with monotherapy, a similar trend as in the global EDGE study was observed. Adding vildagliptin as a second oral glucose-lowering agent resulted in lowering HbA1c to <7% without weight gain, hypoglycemia or peripheral oedema in a higher proportion of patients than comparator oral antidiabetic drugs, with no differences in the reported number of adverse events.

UI  - 24783923
TI  - Clinical efficacy and safety of traditional Chinese medicine combined with Western Medicine in patients with diabetic acute ischemic stroke.
AB  - Standardized treatment was superior to non-standardized treatment for clinical efficacy of TCM combined with WM in patients with diabetic acute ischemic stroke, and the superiority was more obvious in improving neural dysfunction, ADL score, and TCM symptoms. The adverse reactions were similar in the two treatment groups.

UI  - 24772989
TI  - Cluster randomised controlled trial: educational self-care intervention with older Taiwanese patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus--impact on blood glucose levels and diabetic complications.
AB  - Although overall occurrence of complications remained unchanged, the educational health care package specifically developed for Taiwanese elderly with Type 2 DM improved blood glucose levels.

UI  - 24722445
TI  - The endothelin antagonist atrasentan lowers residual albuminuria in patients with type 2 diabetic nephropathy.
AB  - Despite optimal treatment, including renin-angiotensin system (RAS) inhibitors, patients with type 2 diabetic nephropathy have high cardiorenal morbidity and mortality related to residual albuminuria. We evaluated whether or not atrasentan, a selective endothelin A receptor antagonist, further reduces albuminuria when administered concomitantly with maximum tolerated labeled doses of RAS inhibitors. We enrolled 211 patients with type 2 diabetes, urine albumin/creatinine ratios of 300-3500 mg/g, and eGFRs of 30-75 ml/min per 1.73 m(2) in two identically designed, parallel, multinational, double-blind studies. Participants were randomized to placebo (n=50) or to 0.75 mg/d (n=78) or 1.25 mg/d (n=83) atrasentan for 12 weeks. Compared with placebo, 0.75 mg and 1.25 mg atrasentan reduced urine albumin/creatinine ratios by an average of 35% and 38% (95% confidence intervals of 24 to 45 and 28 to 47, respectively) and reduced albuminuria30% in 51% and 55% of participants, respectively. eGFR and office BP measurements did not change, whereas 24-hour systolic and diastolic BP, LDL cholesterol, and triglyceride levels decreased significantly in both treatment groups. Use of atrasentan was associated with a significant increase in weight and a reduction in hemoglobin, but rates of peripheral edema, heart failure, or other side effects did not differ between groups. However, more patients treated with 1.25 mg/d atrasentan discontinued due to adverse events. After stopping atrasentan for 30 days, measured parameters returned to pretreatment levels. In conclusion, atrasentan reduced albuminuria and improved BP and lipid spectrum with manageable fluid overload-related adverse events in patients with type 2 diabetic nephropathy receiving RAS inhibitors.

UI  - 24713310
TI  - Tapentadol potentiates descending pain inhibition in chronic pain patients with diabetic polyneuropathy.
AB  - The study was registered at trialregister.nl under number NTR2716.

UI  - 24702733
TI  - Youth-onset type 2 diabetes mellitus: lessons learned from the TODAY study.
AB  - Type 2 diabetes mellitus is increasingly diagnosed in obese children and adolescents. Evidence suggests that this disease commonly progresses more rapidly in youth compared with adults and is associated with high rates of early microalbuminuria, hypertension, and dyslipidemia. The Treatment Options for Type 2 Diabetes in Adolescents and Youth (TODAY) study was the first multiethnic, multicenter randomized trial in the United States to compare 3 treatment approaches in obese youth with new-onset type 2 diabetes (n=699; ages 10-17 years): monotherapy with metformin, metformin with rosiglitazone, and metformin with an intensive lifestyle intervention. The primary outcome was glycemic control. Diabetes-related complications and cardiovascular risk factors were also examined. Approximately half of the participants could not maintain glycemic control by using metformin alone. Combination therapy with metformin and rosiglitazone resulted in better durability of glycemic control, and metformin plus intensive lifestyle intervention was intermediate but not superior to metformin alone. Deterioration in glycemic control was associated with rapid loss of beta cell function, not worsened insulin sensitivity, and could not be explained by differences in adherence or body mass index. After 3.9 years, 236 (33.8%) of participants had hypertension and 116 participants (16.6%) had microalbuminuria. Only 55.9% of participants had a low-density lipoprotein cholesterol level less than 100 mg/dL (to convert to mmol/L, multiply by 0.0259) after 3 years, and 71 of 517 participants (13.7%) had retinopathy. The significance of the findings from this important trial for the management of youth and young adults with youth-onset type 2 diabetes and its complications is discussed. An aggressive multifaceted approach is needed to prevent or forestall premature microvascular and macrovascular complications in youth-onset type 2 diabetes.

UI  - 24698671
TI  - Association of C(-106)T polymorphism in aldose reductase gene with diabetic retinopathy in Chinese patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - Microalbuminuria and insulin therapy are associated with the risk of DR in Chinese patients with T2DM. C(-106)T polymorphism of the ALR gene may not be significantly associated with DR in Chinese patients with T2DM.

UI  - 24694876
TI  - Comparison of repaglinide and metformin monotherapy as an initial therapy in Chinese patients with newly diagnosed type 2 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - Repaglinide and metformin achieved comparable efficacy in improving glycaemic control, reducing glycaemic variability, enhancing insulin sensitivity and ameliorating -cell function. Therefore, repaglinide is an optional agent for initial therapy in Chinese patients with newly diagnosed T2DM.

UI  - 24687353
TI  - Acute kidney injury in cardiac surgery.
AB  - The prevalence of AKI in our Institute is of 17%. Patients with AKIN 2 and 3 had a higher mortality and a longer stay in the intensive care unit. The major risk factors for AKI development were identified.

UI  - 24683709
TI  - Community tailored partnerships that work: implementing new models of primary care in the state of Maryland.
AB  - 

UI  - 24682069
TI  - Effect of aleglitazar on cardiovascular outcomes after acute coronary syndrome in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus: the AleCardio randomized clinical trial.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT01042769.

UI  - 24679060
TI  - Bariatric surgery versus intensive medical therapy for diabetes--3-year outcomes.
AB  - Among obese patients with uncontrolled type 2 diabetes, 3 years of intensive medical therapy plus bariatric surgery resulted in glycemic control in significantly more patients than did medical therapy alone. Analyses of secondary end points, including body weight, use of glucose-lowering medications, and quality of life, also showed favorable results at 3 years in the surgical groups, as compared with the group receiving medical therapy alone. (Funded by Ethicon and others; STAMPEDE ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00432809.).

UI  - 24678906
TI  - Efficacy and safety of monotherapy with the novel sodium/glucose cotransporter-2 inhibitor tofogliflozin in Japanese patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus: a combined Phase 2 and 3 randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, parallel-group comparative study.
AB  - This study was registered in the JAPIC clinical trials registry (ID: Japic CTI-101349).

UI  - 24660591
TI  - Effect of hypoglycemic anti-deafness capsules in diabetic patients with deafness and toxicological assessment in rats.
AB  - Through experiment on animals and clinical trials, we can found that hypoglycemic anti-deafness capsules could decrease blood glucose and serum triglycerides of alloxan-induced diabetic rats. This herbal capsule is effective for safely treating diabetic patients with deafness.

UI  - 24628556
TI  - Glycation of the complement regulatory protein CD59 is a novel biomarker for glucose handling in humans.
AB  - We observed robust relationships between a single measurement of blood levels of GCD59 and both acute (2-hour OGTT) and chronic (HbA1c) measures of glucose handling. Lowering of GCD59 levels closely reflected lowering of average weekly glucose within 2 weeks. The role of GCD59 in the diagnosis, management, and vascular risk stratification in diabetes warrants further investigation.

UI  - 24624855
TI  - [Recent advances of monitoring and glycaemia control during early postoperative period in patients after pancreas surgery].
AB  - Recently new technologies of diagnostics and correction of carbohydrates metabolism disturbances are introduced in the ICU to improve the safety for patients during intensive care. 33 patients after pancreas surgery were included into the study 13 patients (39%) had underlying diabetes mellitus. Glucose level changes in the interstitial liquid of the subcutaneous fat during postoperative period were monitored by system of CGM Medtronic MiniMed Guardian RT, MiniMed Paradigm Real-time. Valid values of glucose were from 4.1 to 10.1 mmol/L. Episodes of glucose level increasing occurred in 94% of patients in postoperative period after pancreas surgery. Average level of glucose was within the limits of valid values. However in 64% of cases patients needed insulin therapy Used systems of continuous glucose monitoring in the ICU allow improving the safety for patients receiving artificial nutrition and intravenous insulin therapy.

UI  - 24606105
TI  - Glucose turnover after replacement of usual therapy by insulin in insulin-naive type 2 diabetes subjects.
AB  - In T2D, acute discontinuation of anti-hyperglycemic therapy and replacement with insulin increases postprandial Ra and reduces peripheral insulin sensitivity. Insulin dose initiation may need to compensate for these alterations.

UI  - 24605611
TI  - [Effect of probiotics on proinflammatory cytokines level in patients with type 2 diabetes and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease].
AB  - We examined 72 patients with T2D and NAFLD. All patients divided by us on the way of therapy into 2 groups. The main group (n = 45) received oral antidiabetic therapy and multiprobiotic "Symbiter" within 30 days. Patients of comparison group (n = 27) received only hypoglycemic drugs. Also in each group we identified patients with normal and elevated level of transaminases. We observed 1.5-2 times increasing of cytokines in patients with NAFLD and elevated transaminase levels compared to patients with normal transaminase levels. We noted statistically significant reduction of proinflammatory cytokines in plasma, after 30 days of therapy, in patients with elevated levels of transaminases. In particular, the level of IL-6 decreased on 30.9% (P < 0.001), IL-8 - 19.9% (P = 0.001), TNF-alpha - 13.4% (P < 0.001), IL-1beta - 17.9% (P < 0.001) and IFN-gamma on 18.7% (P < 0.001) respectively. In patients with normal levels transaminases and NAFLD were significantly decreased only TNF-alpha on 15.1% (P = 0.003) and IL-8 on 15.2% (P = 0.017). Significant changes in cytokines levels in patients of comparative group we don't observed. Probiotics can be recommended for use in patients with different stages of NAFLD and T2D as an adjunct to standard treatment regimens because it decreases manifestations of low-grade systemic inflammatory response.

UI  - 24604308
TI  - Effect of doxycycline vs placebo on retinal function and diabetic retinopathy progression in patients with severe nonproliferative or non-high-risk proliferative diabetic retinopathy: a randomized clinical trial.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00511875.

UI  - 24559582
TI  - Cotreatment with the -glucosidase inhibitor miglitol and DPP-4 inhibitor sitagliptin improves glycemic control and reduces the expressions of CVD risk factors in type 2 diabetic Japanese patients.
AB  - Our results suggest that combination therapy with miglitol and sitagliptin improves glycemic control and reduces the circulating protein concentrations of IL-8, sE-selectin, and sVCAM-1 in type 2 diabetic Japanese patients.

UI  - 24557997
TI  - [Dosing irregularities and hypoglycaemia in insulin treatment of type 2 diabetes: the GAPP2TM study].
AB  - 

UI  - 24553035
TI  - Relationship between patient satisfactions with diabetes care and treatment.
AB  - The study findings revealed that patient satisfaction was positively associated with sociodemographic variables like high income, employment, married individuals and those with higher levels of education. We found a lower treatment satisfaction in patients with diabetes-related complications and insulin treatment.

UI  - 24531025
TI  - A randomized trial to assess functional and structural effects of ranibizumab versus laser in diabetic macular edema (the LUCIDATE study).
AB  - Ranibizumab therapy in the treatment of diabetic macular edema seems to improve retinal function and structure as demonstrated by this evaluation of different assessment methods.

UI  - 24501946
TI  - [Comparative data of prokinetics in treatment of gastroesophageal reflux disease in patients with diabetes].
AB  - IG was more effective then DP in the treatment of GERD in patients with diabetes, and may be recommended for inclusion in the scheme of treatment of this comorbidity.

UI  - 24498905
TI  - Changes in liraglutide-induced body composition are related to modifications in plasma cardiac natriuretic peptides levels in obese type 2 diabetic patients.
AB  - There were significant correlations between increases in both plasma ANP and BNP levels and changes in liraglutide-induced body composition. Our data implied that increases in plasma NPs may add a novel dimension to explain how liraglutide induces weight loss.

UI  - 24491880
TI  - Effects of combined lipoic acid and pyridoxine on albuminuria, advanced glycation end-products, and blood pressure in diabetic nephropathy.
AB  - This study was designed to investigate the effects of combined administration of lipoic acid and pyridoxine on albuminuria, oxidative stress, blood pressure, serum advanced glycation end-products, nitric oxide (NO), and endothelin-1 in patients with diabetic nephropathy. Thirty-four patients were randomly assigned to either a supplement group or a placebo group. The patients in the supplement group received 800 mg lipoic acid and 80 mg pyridoxine daily for 12 weeks, whereas the placebo group received corresponding placebos. Urinary albumin, serum malondialdehyde (MDA), and systolic blood pressure decreased significantly in the supplement group compared to the placebo group (p < 0.05). Serum NO increased in the supplement group compared to the placebo group (p < 0.05). Serum pentosidine and carboxymethyl lysine decreased significantly in the supplement group at the end of week 12 compared to baseline (p < 0.05). No statistically significant differences were observed between the two groups in mean changes of serum endothelin-1, glucose, and diastolic blood pressure. The present study indicates that combined administration of lipoic acid and pyridoxine improves albuminuria in patients with diabetic nephropathy by reducing oxidative stress, advanced glycation end-products, and systolic blood pressure. The reduction in microalbuminuria may be of benefit in retarding the progression of diabetic nephropathy.

UI  - 24491642
TI  - Three-year outcomes of individualized ranibizumab treatment in patients with diabetic macular edema: the RESTORE extension study.
AB  - Ranibizumab was effective in improving and maintaining BCVA and CRST outcomes with a progressively declining number of injections over 3 years of individualized dosing. Ranibizumab was generally well tolerated with no new safety concerns over 3 years.

UI  - 24483160
TI  - Autonomous and continuous adaptation of a bihormonal bionic pancreas in adults and adolescents with type 1 diabetes.
AB  - A single control algorithm, initialized only with subject weight, can quickly adapt to regulate glycemia in patients with TID and highly variable insulin requirements.

UI  - 24483158
TI  - The effect of PDRN, an adenosine receptor A2A agonist, on the healing of chronic diabetic foot ulcers: results of a clinical trial.
AB  - PDRN facilitates the healing of Wagner 1 or 2 diabetic foot ulcers.

UI  - 24482986
TI  - Insulin analogue therapy improves quality of life in patients with type 2 diabetes in India: the A1chieve study.
AB  - Compared with baseline scores, HRQoL improvement was seen after 24 weeks of treatment with all insulin analogue therapies

UI  - 24482985
TI  - Improvement of glycemic control with addition of insulin detemir to existing antidiabetic therapy: a sub-group analysis of A1chieve observational study.
AB  - In patients with T2DM not achieving their glycemic targets addition of basal insulin detemir was well tolerated and reported improvement in glycemic control.

UI  - 24482984
TI  - Addition of insulin aspart with basal insulin is associated with improved glycemic control in Indian patients with uncontrolled type 2 diabetes mellitus: the A1chieve observational study.
AB  - Insulin aspart (IAsp) has been used in patients for more than a decade. A plethora of data is available, from clinical trials, to document its efficacy and safety and suggest that IAsp is a favorable choice to be used in a basal-bolus regimen. The A1chieve@ was a non-interventional study that explored the safety and effectiveness of initiating or switching to insulin analogues in routine clinical practice in more than 60,000 patients from 28 different countries. In this manuscript, we discuss the findings from the subgroup of the Indian cohort who were treated with insulin aspart (IAsp), in addition to a basal insulin analogue (insulin detemir, IDet). In a cohort of 343, who were on IAsp + IDet, 175 (51%) were insulin naive and 168 (49%) had been on insulin therapy earlier. Glycaemic parameters were high at baseline. Mean HbA1c was 9.3% in them and was comparable in both insulin naive and insulin experienced groups. After 24 weeks of therapy with IAsp + basal insulin, there were reductions in HbA1c in both the insulin naive group, (-1.6) and insulin experienced group (-1.5). Fasting plasma glucose (FPG) and postprandial plasma glucose (PPG) levels were also reduced significantly from baseline (-77 and - 110 mg/dL, respectively, p < 0.001). Overall, hypoglycaemia decreased from 0.97 (baseline) to 0.18 events/patient years (24 weeks). There was also an increase in quality of life score as evaluated by EQ-5D questionnaire. Addition of IAsp with a basal insulin in patients with poor glycaemic control leads to an improvement in glycaemic profile with no major hypoglycaemia or clinically significant weight gain along with an improvement in the quality of life in patients with type 2 diabetes.

UI  - 24482983
TI  - Initiation of insulin aspart to Indian subjects on OADs show significant improvement in glycaemic outcomes: the A1chieve observational study.
AB  - The prevalence of diabetes is increasing worldwide and India stands second next only to china. The management of diabetes in real life settings needs to be evaluated for deriving better management practices. A1chieve observational study evaluated the use of modern insulin in real life settings. This was a 24-week, international, prospective, multicenter, non-interventional, observational study of people with type 2 diabetes. India recruited with 20,554 subjects and a total of 1815 patients were enrolled to receive insulin aspart as bolus insulin therapy of whom 1450 (79.9%) were insulin nave and 365 (20.1%) were insulin users. At the end of 24 weeks, only one SAE was reported in this study and overall hypoglycemia events per patient year decreased from 2.49 (348 episodes) to 0.17 (20 episodes). There were no major hypoglycemic episodes reported in either insulin naive or insulin treated subjects. There was a significant improvement in the HbA(1c) values from the baseline in both insulin naive and insulin users. The mean HbA(1c) value was reduced from 9.5 to 7.4 (p < 0.001) for insulin nave subjects and from 9.2 to 7.7 (p < 0.001) in insulin experienced subjects. Fasting plasma glucose values decreased by 70 mg/dL and 50 mg/dL in insulin naive and insulin experienced, respectively and the difference from baseline was statistically significant (P < 0.001). The post prandial glucose value was also significantly (p < 0.001) reduced by 105 mg/dL for insulin nave subjects and 55 mg/dL for insulin experienced subjects. The composite end point was achieved by 46.6% of insulin naive and 38.1% of insulin-experienced subjects. The study concluded with good HbA(1c) reduction along with lower incidence of hypoglycemia and better health related quality of life outcomes in both in insulin naive and insulin experienced subjects who used insulin aspart as bolus insulin treatment.

UI  - 24482982
TI  - Initiating therapy or switching to biphasic insulin aspart improves glycaemic control in type 2 diabetes: an Indian experience from the A1chieve study.
AB  - Biphasic insulin aspart 30 (BIAsp 30) has been used in patients for almost a decade; There is a wealth of knowledge from clinical trials to document its efficacy and safety and suggest that BIAsp 30 is an option for initiation and intensification of insulin therapy in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). The A1chieve was a non-interventional study that explored the safety and effectiveness of initiating or switching to insulin analogues in routine clinical practice in more than 60,000 patients from 28 different countries. In this manuscript, we discuss the findings from the subgroup of the Indian cohort who were treated with BIAsp 30. In a cohort of 15287 who were on BIAsp 30, 12645 (83%) were insulin naive and 2642 (17%) had been on insulin therapy earlier. Glycaemic parameters were high at baseline. Mean (SD) HbA1c was 9.2% (1.3) in the these and was comparable in the insulin naive and insulin experienced groups. After 24 weeks of therapy with BIAsp 30, there were reductions in HbA1c in both the insulin naive group, [-1.8 (1.3)] and insulin experienced group [-1.6 (1.3)]. Fasting plasma glucose (FPG) and postprandial plasma glucose (PPG) levels were also reduced significantly from baseline [-3.4 (2.7) and -4.8 (3.8) mmol/L, respectively, p < 0.05). Overall, hypoglycaemia decreased from 1.33 events/patient years at baseline to 0.19 events/patient years at 24 weeks. There was also an increase in quality of life score as evaluated by EQ-5D questionnaire. Initiating insulin therapy with or switching to BIAsp 30 in patients with poor glycaemic control leads to an improvement in glycaemic profile with no major hypoglycaemia or clinically significant weight gain. Therapy with BIAsp 30 also improves the quality of life in patients with type 2 diabetes.

UI  - 24482979
TI  - Importance of observational studies in understanding regional clinical practice: rationale and design of the A1chieve study.
AB  - 

UI  - 24482978
TI  - A note on the A1chieve study and the importance of disseminating our results.
AB  - 

UI  - 24479142
TI  - Burden of sliding scale insulin use in elderly long-term care residents with type 2 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - SSI therapy is widely used in LTC facilities and is associated with a high fingerstick burden. SSI regimens are associated with poorer glycemic control but a rate of hypoglycemia similar to that of non-SSI regimens.

UI  - 24475922
TI  - The effect of empagliflozin on arterial stiffness and heart rate variability in subjects with uncomplicated type 1 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - NCT01392560.

UI  - 24469880
TI  - Effect of ASA dose doubling versus switching to clopidogrel on plasma inflammatory markers concentration in patients with type 2 diabetes and high platelet reactivity: the AVOCADO study.
AB  - Increasing the dose of ASA from 75 mg to 150 mg daily or switching ASA 75 mg to clopidogrel 75 mg daily may reduce concentrations of some inflammatory markers (in particular hsCRP, IL-6 and CD40L) in T2DM patients with HPR treated previously with 75 mg of ASA.

UI  - 24463454
TI  - Metabolic response to sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 inhibition in type 2 diabetic patients.
AB  - In patients with type 2 diabetes, empagliflozin-induced glycosuria improved  cell function and insulin sensitivity, despite the fall in insulin secretion and tissue glucose disposal and the rise in EGP after one dose, thereby lowering fasting and postprandial glycemia. Chronic dosing shifted substrate utilization from carbohydrate to lipid. Trial registration. ClinicalTrials.Gov NCT01248364 (EudraCT no. 2010-018708-99). Funding. This study was funded by Boehringer Ingelheim.

UI  - 24463448
TI  - Dapagliflozin improves muscle insulin sensitivity but enhances endogenous glucose production.
AB  - Chronic hyperglycemia impairs insulin action, resulting in glucotoxicity, which can be ameliorated in animal models by inducing glucosuria with renal glucose transport inhibitors. Here, we examined whether reduction of plasma glucose with a sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 (SGLT2) inhibitor could improve insulin-mediated tissue glucose disposal in patients with type 2 diabetes. Eighteen diabetic men were randomized to receive either dapagliflozin (n = 12) or placebo (n = 6) for 2 weeks. We measured insulin-mediated whole body glucose uptake and endogenous glucose production (EGP) at baseline and 2 weeks after treatment using the euglycemic hyperinsulinemic clamp technique. Dapagliflozin treatment induced glucosuria and markedly lowered fasting plasma glucose. Insulin-mediated tissue glucose disposal increased by approximately 18% after 2 weeks of dapagliflozin treatment, while placebo-treated subjects had no change in insulin sensitivity. Surprisingly, following dapagliflozin treatment, EGP increased substantially and was accompanied by an increase in fasting plasma glucagon concentration. Together, our data indicate that reduction of plasma glucose with an agent that works specifically on the kidney to induce glucosuria improves muscle insulin sensitivity. However, glucosuria induction following SGLT2 inhibition is associated with a paradoxical increase in EGP. These results provide support for the glucotoxicity hypothesis, which suggests that chronic hyperglycemia impairs insulin action in individuals with type 2 diabetes.

UI  - 24462012
TI  - Can group medical clinics improve lipid management in diabetes?
AB  - Group medical clinics appear to enhance lipid management among patients with diabetes and hypertension. This may be a result of greater intensification of cholesterol-lowering medications in group medical clinics relative to usual care.

UI  - 24449967
TI  - [Development of a protocol for counseling patients starting with oral hypoglycemic agents].
AB  - This study found that current counseLing practices for patients starting OHA can be improved. Our protocol could be a useful and feasible tool to facilitate implementation of first prescription counseling.

UI  - 24439462
TI  - Refractive changes after pharmacologic resolution of diabetic macular edema.
AB  - Appropriate spectacle correction can be prescribed to patients with DME any time during ongoing therapy using antiedematous substances because resolution of retinal thickening is not associated with an increased risk of a myopic shift.

UI  - 24432999
TI  - Dipeptidyl peptidase 4 inhibitor sitagliptin maintains -cell function in patients with recent-onset latent autoimmune diabetes in adults: one year prospective study.
AB  - LADA patients treated with sitagliptin and insulin maintained -cell function by comparison with insulin alone.

UI  - 24432996
TI  - Fasting serum taurine-conjugated bile acids are elevated in type 2 diabetes and do not change with intensification of insulin.
AB  - Fasting taurine-conjugated BA concentrations are higher in T2D and intermediate in impaired compared with normal glucose-tolerant persons and are associated with fasting and postload glucose. Serum BAs are not altered in T2D in response to improved glycemia. Further study may elucidate whether this pattern of taurine-BA conjugation can be targeted to provide novel therapeutic approaches to treat T2D.

UI  - 24432995
TI  - Chinese herbal medicine Tianqi reduces progression from impaired glucose tolerance to diabetes: a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, multicenter trial.
AB  - Treatment with a Tianqi capsule for 12 months significantly decreased the incidence of T2DM in subjects with IGT, and this herbal drug was safe to use.

UI  - 24423311
TI  - Glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide: blood glucose stabilizing effects in patients with type 2 diabetes.
AB  - In patients with T2DM, GIP counteracts insulin-induced hypoglycemia, most likely through a predominant glucagonotropic effect. In contrast, during hyperglycemia, GIP increases glucose disposal through a predominant effect on insulin release.

UI  - 24423149
TI  - Effects of saxagliptin on early microvascular changes in patients with type 2 diabetes.
AB  - The study was registered at (ID: NCT01319357).

UI  - 24421302
TI  - The effect of alogliptin and pioglitazone combination therapy on various aspects of -cell function in patients with recent-onset type 2 diabetes.
AB  - Short-term treatment with ALO/PIO or ALO improved glycemic control in well-controlled T2DM patients, but only combined ALO/PIO improved -cell function. These data support that initial combination therapy with a DPP4 inhibitor and TZD to address multiple core defects in T2DM may be a sensible approach.

UI  - 24412929
TI  - Impact of insulins glulisine and aspart on postprandial glycemia after a high-glycemic index meal in children with type 1 diabetes.
AB  - No statistically significant difference was found between GLU and ASP with regard to PPG after the consumption of a H-GI breakfast. Neither GLU nor ASP stabilized the glycemic profile after the consumption of a H-GI meal.

UI  - 24410834
TI  - Low serum docosahexaenoic acid is associated with progression of coronary atherosclerosis in statin-treated patients with diabetes mellitus: results of the treatment with statin on atheroma regression evaluated by intravascular ultrasound with virtual histology (TRUTH) study.
AB  - UMIN Clinical Trials Registry, UMIN ID: C000000311.

UI  - 24403477
TI  - Zinc supplementation improves anticancer activity of monocytes in type-2 diabetic patients with metabolic syndrome.
AB  - Because functional transmembrane TNF- was shown to be implicated in defense mechanisms, these findings suggest that zinc supplementation may benefit immune response against cancer in patients with DM and metabolic syndrome.

UI  - 24402015
TI  - Exenatide improves type 2 diabetes concomitant with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.
AB  - Compared with metformin, exenatide is better to control blood glucose, reduces body weight and improves hepatic enzymes, attenuating NAFLD in patients with T2DM concomitant with NAFLD.

UI  - 24393747
TI  - Urinary tract infection in randomized phase III studies of canagliflozin, a sodium glucose co-transporter 2 inhibitor.
AB  - Canagliflozin was associated with a small increase in incidence of UTIs in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus, with no increase in serious or upper UTIs.

UI  - 24392599
TI  - Impact of race/ethnicity on efficacy and safety of two starter insulin regimens in patients with type 2 diabetes: a posthoc analysis of the DURABLE trial.
AB  - There were significant efficacy and safety differences among racial/ethnic groups in the DURABLE trial. These differences may be important in designing insulin based treatment plans.

UI  - 24385236
TI  - Efficacy and safety of ETC-1002, a novel investigational low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol-lowering therapy for the treatment of patients with hypercholesterolemia and type 2 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT# 01607294.

UI  - 24383328
TI  - Hypoglycemic activity of Ficus racemosa bark in combination with oral hypoglycemic drug in diabetic human.
AB  - Medicinal herbs, used in indigenous medicines in crude forms for the management of diabetes mellitus, contain both the organic and inorganic constituents. The aim of the study was to find out the hypoglycemic effect of Ficus racemosa in a group of diabetic subjects taking oral hypoglycemic drug. Twenty five of each, male and female, diabetic patients, selected from Fatima Jinnah Medical College, Lahore, Pakistan, taking oral hypoglycemic drug were included in this study and were given orally the extract (5 mL) of bark of Ficus racemosa (about 100 mg) two times for 15 days. Blood samples for estimation of blood glucose and parameters of liver and renal functions were estimated. It was observed that after taking the herb in combination with drug, blood glucose level (fasting and after breakfast) was markedly decreased in both male and female but significant difference was only observed in sugar level of males after 1.5 h after breakfast. To rule out herb toxicity, liver and renal functions tests of patients was also performed which were observed to be in normal range. Present investigation established a pharmacological evidence to support the folklore claim that Ficus racemosa is good anti-diabetic agent.

UI  - 24369764
TI  - Patient-reported outcomes among patients using exenatide twice daily or insulin in clinical practice in six European countries: the CHOICE prospective observational study.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT00635492.

UI  - 24356886
TI  - Xenin-25 delays gastric emptying and reduces postprandial glucose levels in humans with and without type 2 diabetes.
AB  - Xenin-25 (Xen) is a neurotensin-related peptide secreted by a subset of glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide (GIP)-producing enteroendocrine cells. In animals, Xen regulates gastrointestinal function and glucose homeostasis, typically by initiating neural relays. However, little is known about Xen action in humans. This study determines whether exogenously administered Xen modulates gastric emptying and/or insulin secretion rates (ISRs) following meal ingestion. Fasted subjects with normal (NGT) or impaired (IGT) glucose tolerance and Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM; n = 10-14 per group) ingested a liquid mixed meal plus acetaminophen (ACM; to assess gastric emptying) at time zero. On separate occasions, a primed-constant intravenous infusion of vehicle or Xen at 4 (Lo-Xen) or 12 (Hi-Xen) pmol  kg(-1)  min(-1) was administered from zero until 300 min. Some subjects with NGT received 30- and 90-min Hi-Xen infusions. Plasma ACM, glucose, insulin, C-peptide, glucagon, Xen, GIP, and glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) levels were measured and ISRs calculated. Areas under the curves were compared for treatment effects. Infusion with Hi-Xen, but not Lo-Xen, similarly delayed gastric emptying and reduced postprandial glucose levels in all groups. Infusions for 90 or 300 min, but not 30 min, were equally effective. Hi-Xen reduced plasma GLP-1, but not GIP, levels without altering the insulin secretory response to glucose. Intense staining for Xen receptors was detected on PGP9.5-positive nerve fibers in the longitudinal muscle of the human stomach. Thus Xen reduces gastric emptying in humans with and without T2DM, probably via a neural relay. Moreover, endogenous GLP-1 may not be a major enhancer of insulin secretion in healthy humans under physiological conditions.

UI  - 24354899
TI  - A multicentre randomized controlled trial of an empowerment-inspired intervention for adolescents starting continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion--a study protocol.
AB  - In this study, we will assess the effect of starting an CSII together with the model of GSD to determine whether this approach leads to retention of improved glycaemic control, QoL, responsibility distribution and reduced diabetes-related conflicts in the family.

UI  - 24341049
TI  - Glucosa-Insulin-Potassium (GIK) solution used with diabetic patients provides better recovery after coronary bypass operations.
AB  - Intraoperative GIK solution given to diabetic patients with CABG operation provides more stable CI, shorter time of MV, more stable values of potassium which provides normal rhythm and less AF onset, less insulin to maintain target glycemia. All the above mentioned provides more stable intraoperative hemodynamic and better recovery of diabetic

UI  - 24336915
TI  - Reduction of interleukin 8 and platelet-derived growth factor levels by topical ketorolac, 0.45%, in patients with diabetic retinopathy.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT01609881.

UI  - 24336297
TI  - Intravitreal bevacizumab (Avastin) versus triamcinolone (Volon A) for treatment of diabetic macular edema: one-year results.
AB  - Intravitreal bevacizumab and triamcinolone are both equally effective in reducing CSRT in early DME. After 6 months, rehabilitation of vision was comparable in both treatment arms, whereas at the final follow-up at month 12, BCVA was superior in the bevacizumab than in the triamcinolone sample. This may be related to cataract development following steroid treatment, as well as to substance-specific mechanisms within the angiogenic versus the inflammatory cascade.

UI  - 24335915
TI  - Errors in preparation and administration of insulin in two urban Vietnamese hospitals: an observational study.
AB  - Interventions suitable for resource-restricted settings need to be developed and tested to improve insulin preparation and administration, probably starting with education and providing information, especially infusion doses.

UI  - 24334175
TI  - Renal hemodynamic effect of sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 inhibition in patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT01392560.

UI  - 24331774
TI  - Periodontal treatment with topical antibiotics improves glycemic control in association with elevated serum adiponectin in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - The results demonstrated that periodontal treatment improves periodontal status and glycemic control with elevation of serum adiponectin in type 2 diabetic patients. The results suggest that HbA1c is reduced by amelioration of insulin resistance due to elevated serum adiponectin after periodontal treatments.

UI  - 24329831
TI  - Effect and sustainability of pharmacy outreach services in elderly adults: a 5-year experience in Hong Kong.
AB  - 

UI  - 24324048
TI  - Effects of combination of perindopril, indapamide, and calcium channel blockers in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus: results from the Action In Diabetes and Vascular Disease: Preterax and Diamicron Controlled Evaluation (ADVANCE) trial.
AB  - The objective of the present analysis was to determine the effects of a fixed combination of perindopril and indapamide in combination with calcium channel blockers (CCBs) in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. The Action in Diabetes and Vascular Disease: Preterax and Diamicron Controlled Evaluation (ADVANCE) trial was a factorial randomized controlled trial. A total of 11140 patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus were randomly assigned to fixed combination of perindopril-indapamide (4/1.25 mg) or placebo. Effects of randomized treatment on mortality and major cardiovascular outcomes were examined in subgroups defined by baseline use of CCBs. Patients on CCB at baseline (n=3427) constituted a higher risk group compared with those not on CCB (n=7713), with more extensive use of antihypertensive and other protective therapies. Active treatment reduced the relative risk of death by 28% (95% confidence interval, 10%-43%) among patients with CCB at baseline compared with 5% (-12% to 20%) among those without CCB (P homogeneity=0.02) and 14% (2%-25%) for the whole population. Similarly, the relative risk reduction for major cardiovascular events was 12% (-8% to 28%) versus 6% (-10% to 19%) for those with and without CCB at baseline although the difference was not statistically significant (P homogeneity=0.38). There was no detectable increase in adverse effects in those receiving CCB. The combination of perindopril and indapamide with CCBs seems to provide further protection against mortality in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus.

UI  - 24322626
TI  - Assessing potential glycemic overtreatment in persons at hypoglycemic risk.
AB  - Patients with risk factors for serious hypoglycemia represent a large subset of individuals receiving hypoglycemic agents; approximately one-half had evidence of intensive treatment. A patient safety indicator derived from administrative data can identify high-risk patients for whom reevaluation of glycemic management may be appropriate, consistent with meaningful use criteria for electronic medical records.

UI  - 24306153
TI  - Comparative effectiveness of bariatric surgery vs. nonsurgical treatment of type 2 diabetes among severely obese adults.
AB  - Although all weight-loss approaches may improve insulin sensitivity in type 2 diabetes, bariatric surgery is believed to be the only reliable means of achieving diabetes remission. We conducted a retrospective cohort study to compare rates of diabetes remission, relapse and all-cause mortality among severely obese individuals with diabetes who underwent bariatric surgery vs. nonsurgically treated individuals. Severely obese adults with uncontrolled or medication-controlled diabetes who underwent bariatric surgery or received usual medical care from 2005 to 2008 in three health care delivery systems in the United States were eligible. Diabetes status was identified using pharmacy, laboratory, and diagnosis information from electronic medical records. A propensity approach and exclusion criteria identified 1395 adults with diabetes who had bariatric surgery and 62,322 who did not. Most procedures were Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (72.0% laparoscopic; 8.2% open); 4.4% were gastric banding, 2.4% sleeve gastrectomy, and 13.2% were other procedures. At two years, bariatric subjects experienced significantly higher diabetes remission rates [73.7% (95% CI: 70.6, 76.5)] compared to nonsurgical subjects [6.9% (95%CI: 6.9, 7.1)]. Age, site, duration of diabetes, hemoglobin A1c level, and intensity of diabetes medication treatment were significantly associated with remission. Bariatric subjects also experienced lower relapse rates than nonsurgical subjects (adjusted HR: 0.19; 95% CI: 0.15-0.23) with no higher risk of death (adjusted HR: 0.54; 95% CI: 0.22-1.30). We conclude that bariatric surgery can effectively induce remission of diabetes among most severely obese adults, and this treatment approach appears to be superior to nonsurgical treatment in inducing diabetes remission.

UI  - 24304990
TI  - Efficacy of metformin versus insulin in the management of pregnancy with diabetes.
AB  - There was no marked difference in efficacy of metformin and insulin in controlling diabetes in pregnant patients in two groups.

UI  - 24296715
TI  - Defining the role of GLP-1 in the enteroinsulinar axis in type 2 diabetes using DPP-4 inhibition and GLP-1 receptor blockade.
AB  - Understanding the incretin pathway has led to significant advancements in the treatment of type 2 diabetes (T2D). Still, the exact mechanisms are not fully understood. In a randomized, placebo-controlled, four-period, crossover study in 24 patients with T2D, dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibition and its glucose-lowering actions were tested after an oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT). The contribution of GLP-1 was examined by infusion of the GLP-1 receptor (GLP-1r) antagonist exendin-9. DPP-4 inhibition reduced glycemia and enhanced insulin levels and the incretin effect (IE). Glucagon was suppressed, and gastric emptying (GE) was decelerated. Exendin-9 increased glucose levels and glucagon secretion, attenuated insulinemia and the IE, and accelerated GE. With the GLP-1r antagonist, the glucose-lowering effects of DPP-4 inhibition were reduced by  50%. However, a significant effect on insulin secretion remained during GLP-1r blockade, whereas the inhibitory effects of DPP-4 inhibition on glucagon and GE were abolished. Thus, in this cohort of T2D patients with a substantial IE, GLP-1 contributed  50% to the insulin excursion after an OGTT with and without DPP-4 inhibition. Thus, a significant DPP-4-sensitive glucose-lowering mechanism contributes to glycemic control in T2D patients that may be not mediated by circulating GLP-1.

UI  - 24285763
TI  - Pharmacist-physician collaboration for diabetes care: cardiovascular outcomes.
AB  - The results of our study indicate that collaborative management has a positive impact on decreasing cardiovascular risk and assists patients in attaining national goals for blood pressure and cholesterol.

UI  - 24281606
TI  - Local use of insulin in wounds of diabetic patients: higher temperature, fibrosis, and angiogenesis.
AB  - Therapeutic, II.

UI  - 24280743
TI  - Metformin for the treatment of hyperandrogenism in adolescents with type 1 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - Treating hyperandrogenic T1D adolescents with metformin significantly decreased the serum androgens compared to the placebo, but metformin therapy did not significantly affect clinical parameters, such as hirsutism, ovulation and metabolic control.

UI  - 24279801
TI  - Efficacy and safety of vildagliptin in new-onset diabetes after kidney transplantation--a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - New-onset diabetes after transplantation (NODAT) is a serious complication after kidney transplantation, but therapeutic strategies remain underexplored. Dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors selectively foster insulin secretion without inducing hypoglycemia, which might be advantageous in kidney transplant recipients (KTRs) with NODAT. We conducted a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, phase II trial to assess safety and efficacy of the DPP-4 inhibitor vildagliptin. Intraindividual differences in oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT)-derived 2-h plasma glucose (2HPG) from baseline to 3 months after treatment served as primary endpoint. Among secondary outcomes, we evaluated HbA1c, metabolic and safety parameters, as well as OGTTs at 1 month after drug discontinuation. Of 509 stable KTRs who were screened in our outpatient clinic, 63 (12.4%) had 2HPG  200 mg/dL, 33 of them were randomized and 32 completed the study. In the vildagliptin group 2HPG and HbA1c were profoundly reduced in comparison to placebo (vildagliptin: 2HPG = 182.7 mg/dL, HbA1c = 6.1%; placebo: 2HPG = 231.2 mg/dL, HbA1c = 6.5%; both p  0.05), and statistical significance was achieved for the primary endpoint (vildagliptin: 2HPG-difference -73.7  51.3 mg/dL; placebo: -5.7  41.4 mg/dL; p < 0.01). Adverse events were generally mild and occurred at similar rates in both groups. In conclusion, DPP-4 inhibition in KTRs with overt NODAT was safe and efficient, providing a novel treatment alternative for this specific form of diabetes.

UI  - 24273930
TI  - Improved glycemic control in patients with advanced type 2 diabetes mellitus taking Urtica dioica leaf extract: a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled clinical trial.
AB  - Nettle may safely improve glycemic control in type 2 diabetic patients needing insulin therapy.

UI  - 24269517
TI  - Metformin is associated with improved survival in endometrial cancer.
AB  - Metformin use was associated with improved RFS and OS but not TTR, most likely due to improving all-cause mortality. Its role in modifying cancer recurrence remains unclear. Prospective studies that capture metformin exposure prior to, during and post endometrial cancer treatment may help define the role of metformin upon cancer specific and overall health outcomes.

UI  - 24268212
TI  - Rationale, design, and organization of a randomized, controlled Trial Evaluating Cardiovascular Outcomes with Sitagliptin (TECOS) in patients with type 2 diabetes and established cardiovascular disease.
AB  - Sitagliptin, an oral dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitor, lowers blood glucose when administered as monotherapy or in combination with other antihyperglycemic agents. TECOS will evaluate the effects of adding sitagliptin to usual diabetes care on cardiovascular outcomes and clinical safety. TECOS is a pragmatic, academically run, multinational, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, event-driven trial recruiting approximately 14,000 patients in 38 countries who have type 2 diabetes (T2DM), are at least 50 years old, have cardiovascular disease, and have an hemoglobin A1c value between 6.5% and 8.0%. Eligible participants will be receiving stable mono- or dual therapy with metformin, sulfonylurea, or pioglitazone, or insulin alone or in combination with metformin. Randomization is 1:1 to double-blind sitagliptin or matching placebo, in addition to existing therapy in a usual care setting. Follow-up occurs at 4-month intervals in year 1 and then twice yearly until 1300 confirmed primary end points have occurred. Glycemic equipoise between randomized groups is a desired aim. The primary composite cardiovascular endpoint is time to the first occurrence of cardiovascular death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, nonfatal stroke, or hospitalization for unstable angina, with cardiovascular events adjudicated by an independent committee blinded to study therapy. TECOS is a pragmatic-design cardiovascular outcome trial assessing the cardiovascular effects of sitagliptin when added to usual T2DM management.

UI  - 24264395
TI  - Diabetes control and complications trial/epidemiology of diabetes interventions and complications study at 30 years: advances and contributions.
AB  - 

UI  - 24261232
TI  - [Endothelial dysfunction is a target for combination antihypertensive therapy in hypertensive patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus].
AB  - Twelve-week treatment with the combined antihypertensive medication ekvator is highly effective and safe for recovering endothelial function and improving the state of target organs in hypertensive patients with T2DM.

UI  - 24259985
TI  - Efficacy and safety of insulin glargine added to a fixed-dose combination of metformin and a dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitor: results of the GOLD observational study.
AB  - The results of this observational study show that insulin glargine, when added to a fixed-dose combination of metformin and a DPP-4 inhibitor, resulted in a significant and clinically relevant improvement of glycemic control. Importantly, this intervention did not interfere with the action of the DPP-4 inhibitors, resulting in neutral effects on weight and low rates of hypoglycemia. We conclude that this treatment intensification approach may be useful, efficient, and safe in daily clinical practice for patients with type 2 diabetes.

UI  - 24256611
TI  - Effect of atorvastatin on renal NO availability and tubular function in patients with stage II-III chronic kidney disease and type 2 diabetes.
AB  - During, atorvastatin and placebo treatment, inhibition of nitric oxide synthesis induced the same response in brachial and central blood pressure, GFR, renal tubular function and vasoactive hormones. Thus, atorvastatin did not change nitric oxide availability in type 2 diabetics with nephropathy.

UI  - 24238537
TI  - Cilostazol reduces microalbuminuria in type 2 diabetic nephropathy.
AB  - 

UI  - 24229770
TI  - Pioglitazone decreases coronary artery inflammation in impaired glucose tolerance and diabetes mellitus: evaluation by FDG-PET/CT imaging.
AB  - Our study indicated that pioglitazone attenuated left main trunk inflammation in patients with impaired glucose tolerance or DM in a glucose-lowering independent manner, suggesting that pioglitazone may protect against cardiac events in patients with impaired glucose tolerance or DM by suppressing coronary inflammation. (Anti-Inflammatory Effects of Pioglitazone; NCT00722631).

UI  - 24229669
TI  - Basal insulin therapy strategy is superior to premixed insulin therapy in the perioperative period blood glucose management.
AB  - Basal insulin therapy could be used in diabetic patients undergoing elective major and medium surgery during whole perioperative period. Basal insulin therapy strategy, including a single injection of basal insulin and basal insulin plus preprandial insulin injection subcutaneously, is superior to premixed insulin therapy in the perioperative blood glucose management, and it could be viewed as the best choice in glucose control during perioperative period.

UI  - 24229665
TI  - Change of glutamic acid decarboxylase antibody and protein tyrosine phosphatase antibody in Chinese patients with acute-onset type 1 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - Our data suggest that repeated detection of GADA and IA-2A are necessary for differential diagnosis of autoimmune diabetes and the indirect prediction of the  cell function in Chinese patients.

UI  - 24227804
TI  - Vascular endothelial growth factor suppression times in patients with diabetic macular oedema treated with ranibizumab.
AB  - Monthly ranibizumab injections lead to a complete VEGF suppression in patients with DME. The long-term stability and the range of suppression times among individuals suggest that some patients could benefit from individual injection intervals.

UI  - 24225338
TI  - Comparison of effects of -Glucosidase inhibitors and glinide drugs on endothelial dysfunction in diabetic patients with coronary artery disease.
AB  - The ameliorating effect of -GI on post-prandial hyperglycemia without stimulating insulin secretion may improve atherogenic dyslipidemia by reducing insulin resistance. These effects are associated with its beneficial impact on oxidative stress, consequently leading to an improvement in endothelial dysfunction.

UI  - 24225332
TI  - Trial to examine text message-based mHealth in emergency department patients with diabetes (TExT-MED): a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - The TExT-MED program did not result in a statistically significant improvement in Hb A1C. However, trends toward improvement in the primary outcome of Hb A1C and other secondary outcomes, including quality of life, were observed, the most pronounced being improved medication adherence. TExT-MED also decreased ED utilization. These findings were magnified in the Spanish-speaking subgroup. Technologies such as TExT-MED represent highly scalable, low-cost, and widely accessible solutions for safety-net ED populations.

UI  - 24217934
TI  - The skeletal effects of pioglitazone in type 2 diabetes or impaired glucose tolerance: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Over 1 year, treatment with pioglitazone 30mg/day did not produce consistent effects on either BMD or bone turnover in people with T2DM or IGT. The mechanism(s) by which pioglitazone increases fracture risk in T2DM is unclear.

UI  - 24212264
TI  - Newly diagnosed and previously known diabetes mellitus and short-term outcomes in patients with acute myocardial infarction.
AB  - Previously known DM, but not newly diagnosed DM, was an independent predictor for short-term MACE in patients with STEMI. To reduce the incidence of short-term MACE and the detrimental effects of stress hyperglycemia after STEMI, intensive insulin therapy should be provided to diabetic patients with STEMI.

UI  - 24210590
TI  - Estimated GFR decline as a surrogate end point for kidney failure: a post hoc analysis from the Reduction of End Points in Non-Insulin-Dependent Diabetes With the Angiotensin II Antagonist Losartan (RENAAL) study and Irbesartan Diabetic Nephropathy Trial (IDNT).
AB  - Despite increases in precision of the treatment effect, eGFR declines less than a doubling of serum creatinine value did not consistently improve statistical power of the clinical trials due to attenuation of the treatment effect. Attenuation of the treatment effect appears to be due in part to acute effects of ARBs on eGFR. These findings should be taken into account when using lesser eGFR declines as alternative end points for clinical trials.

UI  - 24206459
TI  - Bardoxolone methyl in type 2 diabetes and stage 4 chronic kidney disease.
AB  - Among patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and stage 4 chronic kidney disease, bardoxolone methyl did not reduce the risk of ESRD or death from cardiovascular causes. A higher rate of cardiovascular events with bardoxolone methyl than with placebo prompted termination of the trial. (Funded by Reata Pharmaceuticals; BEACON ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT01351675.).

UI  - 24206457
TI  - Combined angiotensin inhibition for the treatment of diabetic nephropathy.
AB  - Combination therapy with angiotensin-converting-enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin-receptor blockers (ARBs) decreases proteinuria; however, its safety and effect on the progression of kidney disease are uncertain. Methods We provided losartan (at a dose of 100 mg per day) to patients with type 2 diabetes, a urinary albumin-to-creatinine ratio (with albumin measured in milligrams and creatinine measured in grams) of at least 300, and an estimated glomerular filtration rate (GFR) of 30.0 to 89.9 ml per minute per 1.73 m(2) of body-surface area and then randomly assigned them to receive lisinopril (at a dose of 10 to 40 mg per day) or placebo. The primary end point was the first occurrence of a change in the estimated GFR (a decline of  30 ml per minute per 1.73 m(2) if the initial estimated GFR was  60 ml per minute per 1.73 m(2) or a decline of  50% if the initial estimated GFR was <60 ml per minute per 1.73 m(2)), end-stage renal disease (ESRD), or death. The secondary renal end point was the first occurrence of a decline in the estimated GFR or ESRD. Safety outcomes included mortality, hyperkalemia, and acute kidney injury. Results The study was stopped early owing to safety concerns. Among 1448 randomly assigned patients with a median follow-up of 2.2 years, there were 152 primary end-point events in the monotherapy group and 132 in the combination-therapy group (hazard ratio with combination therapy, 0.88; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.70 to 1.12; P=0.30). A trend toward a benefit from combination therapy with respect to the secondary end point (hazard ratio, 0.78; 95% CI, 0.58 to 1.05; P=0.10) decreased with time (P=0.02 for nonproportionality). There was no benefit with respect to mortality (hazard ratio for death, 1.04; 95% CI, 0.73 to 1.49; P=0.75) or cardiovascular events. Combination therapy increased the risk of hyperkalemia (6.3 events per 100 person-years, vs. 2.6 events per 100 person-years with monotherapy; P<0.001) and acute kidney injury (12.2 vs. 6.7 events per 100 person-years, P<0.001). Conclusions Combination therapy with an ACE inhibitor and an ARB was associated with an increased risk of adverse events among patients with diabetic nephropathy. (Funded by the Cooperative Studies Program of the Department of Veterans Affairs Office of Research and Development; VA NEPHRON-D ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00555217.).

UI  - 24196401
TI  - Maternal prepregnancy obesity and insulin treatment during pregnancy are independently associated with delayed lactogenesis in women with recent gestational diabetes mellitus.
AB  - One-third of women with recent GDM experienced delayed OL. Maternal obesity, insulin treatment, and suboptimal in-hospital breastfeeding were key risk factors for delayed OL. Early breastfeeding support for GDM women with these risk factors may be needed to ensure successful lactation. This trial was registered at clinicaltrials.gov as NCT01967030.

UI  - 24196314
TI  - Long-term outcome of the unrestricted use of everolimus-eluting stents compared to sirolimus-eluting stents and paclitaxel-eluting stents in diabetic patients: the Bern-Rotterdam diabetes cohort study.
AB  - In diabetic patients, the unrestricted use of EES appears to be associated with improved outcomes, specifically a significant decrease in the need for TLR and ST compared to early generation SES and PES throughout 3-year follow-up.

UI  - 24195786
TI  - Effect of imidapril versus ramipril on urinary albumin excretion in hypertensive patients with type 2 diabetes and microalbuminuria.
AB  - These findings showed that in diabetic hypertensive patients with microalbuminuria, despite equivalent BP-lowering effect, I produced a greater antiproteinuric effect than R, which might be due to different intrinsic molecular properties of the two drugs.

UI  - 24194532
TI  - Intensive insulin therapy increases sex hormone-binding globulin in newly diagnosed type 2 diabetic patients.
AB  - IT increases serum SHBG likely through improving insulin resistance and liver function.

UI  - 24186866
TI  - Effects of sitagliptin and metformin treatment on incretin hormone and insulin secretory responses to oral and "isoglycemic" intravenous glucose.
AB  - Dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors prevent degradation of incretin hormones (glucagon-like peptide 1 [GLP-1] and glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide [GIP]), whereas metformin may increase GLP-1 levels. We examined, in a four-period crossover trial, the influence of metformin (2,000 mg/day), sitagliptin (100 mg/day), or their combination, on GLP-1 responses and on the incretin effect in 20 patients with type 2 diabetes, comparing an oral glucose challenge (75 g, day 5) and an "isoglycemic" intravenous glucose infusion (day 6). Fasting total GLP-1 was significantly increased by metformin and not changed by sitagliptin. After oral glucose, metformin increased and sitagliptin significantly decreased (by 53%) total GLP-1. Fasting and postload intact GLP-1 increased with sitagliptin but not with metformin. After oral glucose, only sitagliptin, but not metformin, significantly augmented insulin secretion, in monotherapy and as an add-on to metformin. The incretin effect was not changed numerically with any of the treatments. In conclusion, sitagliptin increased intact GLP-1 and GIP through DPP-4 inhibition but reduced total GLP-1 and GIP (feedback inhibition) without affecting the numerical contribution of the incretin effect. Insulin secretion with sitagliptin treatment was similarly stimulated with oral and "isoglycemic" intravenous glucose. This points to an important contribution of small changes in incretin concentrations within the basal range or to additional insulinotropic agents besides GLP mediating the antidiabetic effects of DPP-4 inhibition.

UI  - 24176451
TI  - Incidence of atrial fibrillation in a population with impaired glucose tolerance: the contribution of glucose metabolism and other risk factors. A post hoc analysis of the Nateglinide and Valsartan in Impaired Glucose Tolerance Outcomes Research trial.
AB  - In a trial population with impaired glucose tolerance, fasting plasma glucose and well-known risk factors (age, hypertension, and elevated body weight), but not progression to diabetes, predict risk of AF.

UI  - 24176437
TI  - Design of the liraglutide effect and action in diabetes: evaluation of cardiovascular outcome results (LEADER) trial.
AB  - LEADER commenced in September 2010, and enrollment concluded in April 2012. There were 9,340 patients enrolled at 410 sites in 32 countries. The mean age of patients was 64.3  7.2 years, 64.3% were men, and mean body mass index was 32.5  6.3 kg/m2. There were 7,592 (81.3%) patients with prior CVD and 1,748 (18.7%) who were high risk but without prior CVD. It is expected that LEADER will provide conclusive data regarding the cardiovascular safety of liraglutide relative to the current standard of usual care for a global population of patients with T2DM.

UI  - 24175012
TI  - Analysis of serum and urinal copper and zinc in Chinese northeast population with the prediabetes or diabetes with and without complications.
AB  - This study investigated the association of copper and zinc levels in the serum or urine of patients living in northeast China, with either prediabetes or diabetes. From January 2010 to October 2011, patients with type 1 diabetes (T1D, n = 25), type 2 diabetes (T2D, n = 137), impaired fasting glucose (IFG, n = 12) or impaired glucose tolerance (IGT, n = 15), and age/gender matched controls (n = 50) were enrolled. In the T2D group, there were 24 patients with nephropathy, 34 with retinopathy, and 50 with peripheral neuropathy. Serum copper levels were significantly higher in IFG, IGT, and T2D groups. Serum zinc level was dramatically lower, and urinary zinc level was significantly higher in both T1D and T2D subjects compared with controls. The serum zinc/copper ratio was significantly lower in all the patients with IFG, ITG, T1D, and T2D. The serum copper level was positively associated with HbA1c in T2D subjects. Simvastatin treatment in T2D patients had no significant effect on serum and urinary copper and zinc. These results suggest the need for further studies of the potential impact of the imbalanced serum copper and zinc levels on metabolic syndrome, diabetes, and diabetic complications.

UI  - 24174327
TI  - Unimolecular dual incretins maximize metabolic benefits in rodents, monkeys, and humans.
AB  - We report the discovery and translational therapeutic efficacy of a peptide with potent, balanced co-agonism at both of the receptors for the incretin hormones glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) and glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide (GIP). This unimolecular dual incretin is derived from an intermixed sequence of GLP-1 and GIP, and demonstrated enhanced antihyperglycemic and insulinotropic efficacy relative to selective GLP-1 agonists. Notably, this superior efficacy translated across rodent models of obesity and diabetes, including db/db mice and ZDF rats, to primates (cynomolgus monkeys and humans). Furthermore, this co-agonist exhibited synergism in reducing fat mass in obese rodents, whereas a selective GIP agonist demonstrated negligible weight-lowering efficacy. The unimolecular dual incretins corrected two causal mechanisms of diabesity, adiposity-induced insulin resistance and pancreatic insulin deficiency, more effectively than did selective mono-agonists. The duration of action of the unimolecular dual incretins was refined through site-specific lipidation or PEGylation to support less frequent administration. These peptides provide comparable pharmacology to the native peptides and enhanced efficacy relative to similarly modified selective GLP-1 agonists. The pharmacokinetic enhancement lessened peak drug exposure and, in combination with less dependence on GLP-1-mediated pharmacology, avoided the adverse gastrointestinal effects that typify selective GLP-1-based agonists. This discovery and validation of a balanced and high-potency dual incretin agonist enables a more physiological approach to management of diseases associated with impaired glucose tolerance.

UI  - 24172699
TI  - Alpha-lipoic acid improves subclinical left ventricular dysfunction in asymptomatic patients with type 1 diabetes.
AB  - These findings suggest that alpha-lipoic acid may have a role in preventing the development of diabetic cardiomyopathy in type 1 diabetes.

UI  - 24170982
TI  - Psychopathology and continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion in type 1 diabetes.
AB  - Women with type 1 diabetes treated with CSII display higher levels of psychopathology than those on MDI. This is probably the consequence of the fact that patients selected for CSII are those failing to MDI. Higher levels of psychopathology could represent a limit for the attainment and maintenance of therapeutic goals with CSII.

UI  - 24165020
TI  - The role of androgen receptor CAG repeat polymorphism and other factors which affect the clinical response to testosterone replacement in metabolic syndrome and type 2 diabetes: TIMES2 sub-study.
AB  - AR CAG affected the response of some variables to TRT in the TIMES2 study, although the association with HOMA-IR did not reach significance. Various factors may have limited the power of our study to detect the significant associations between AR CAG, testosterone levels and change in variables with testosterone treatment. Analysis of similar data sets from other clinical trials is warranted.

UI  - 24159791
TI  - [Additional advantages of mexicor used in combined therapy of coronary heat disease and diabetes mellitus of 2nd type].
AB  - This open prospective randomized 16-week study of combined therapy of coronary heat disease (CHD) and and diabetes mellitus of 2nd type (DM2) with secondary non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) including mexicor was designed to estimate structural and functional liver characteristics. Mexicor was shown to act as a hepatoprotector reducing the frequency of cytolithic syndrome when used together with statins in combined therapy of atherogenic dyslipidemia. It also significantly decreased the number of patients with elevated levels of gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase. These changes suggest favourable prognosis for patients with CHD and DM2 because enhanced activity of this enzyme is believed to be a predictor of high cardiovascular risk. Mexicor promoted combined hypolipidemic effect, reduced the degree of insulin resistance, improved hepatic metabolism, and lowered cardiovascular risks in patients with CHD and DM2.

UI  - 24159603
TI  - Advanced diabetic nephropathy with nephrotic range proteinuria: a pilot study of the long-term efficacy of subcutaneous ACTH gel on proteinuria, progression of CKD, and urinary levels of VEGF and MCP-1.
AB  - ACTH gel stabilizes renal function and reduces urinary protein for up to 6 months after treatment. The ClinTrials.gov identifier is NCT01028287.

UI  - 24157192
TI  - Comparison of statin alone versus bezafibrate and statin combination in patients with diabetes mellitus and acute coronary syndrome.
AB  - Acute coronary syndromes (ACS) in patients with diabetes mellitus (DM) are associated with a high risk for major adverse cardiovascular events (MACEs) despite statin treatment. The impact of combined bezafibrate and statin therapy in patients with DM and ACS has not been specifically investigated. The aim of this study was to evaluate the association of combined therapy with 30-day MACEs in patients with DM participating in the nationwide Acute Coronary Syndrome Israeli Surveys (ACSIS). The study population comprised 3,063 patients with DM from the ACSIS 2000, 2002, 2004, 2006, 2008, and 2010 enrollment waves who were alive at discharge and received statins. Of these, 225 (7.3%) received on discharge combined bezafibrate and statin therapy, and 2,838 (92.7%) were treated with statins alone. MACEs were defined as a composite measure of death, recurrent myocardial infarction, recurrent ischemia, stent thrombosis, ischemic stroke, and urgent revascularization. The development of 30-day MACEs was recorded in 8% patients receiving combination therapy and 14.2% of those receiving statins alone (p = 0.01). Crude 1-year mortality and 30-day rehospitalization rates were also significantly lower in patients receiving combination therapy: 4.0% versus 8.1% (p = 0.03) and 13.3% versus 21.6% (p = 0.003), respectively. Multivariate analysis identified combined therapy as an independent predictor of reduced risk for 30-day MACEs, with an odds ratio of 0.56 (95% confidence interval 0.34 to 0.92), corresponding to a 44% relative risk reduction. In conclusion, a significantly lower risk for 30-day MACEs was observed in statin-treated patients with DM who also received bezafibrate after ACS. Signals regarding improvement of 30-day rehospitalization and 1-year mortality rates emerged as well.

UI  - 24156642
TI  - Comparative effectiveness of hypoglycemic medications among veterans.
AB  - Our findings suggest chlorpropamide, glipizide, glyburide, insulin, and rosiglitazone increased severity-adjusted mortality in veterans with type 2 diabetes. A decision aid that could optimize selection of hypoglycemic medications based on patients' comorbidities might increase patients' survival.

UI  - 24141239
TI  - Insulin sensitizing and anti-inflammatory effects of thiazolidinediones are heightened in obese patients.
AB  - These findings support the efficacy of pioglitazone to improve insulin resistance and reduce adipose tissue inflammation in obese patients with T2DM.

UI  - 24139704
TI  - A comparison of the pharmacodynamic profiles of insulin detemir and insulin glargine: a single dose clamp study in people with type 2 diabetes.
AB  - In persons with T2DM, no difference in duration of action following a single subcutaneous dose of insulin detemir and insulin glargine could be observed. Insulin detemir showed greater between subject variability and achieved a significantly higher maximum GIR than insulin glargine.

UI  - 24137964
TI  - [A combination of dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitor and metformin in the treatment of patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus: effective control of glycemia, weight, and quantitative body composition].
AB  - The glucose-lowering efficiency of combination therapy with metformin + vildagliptin, a DPP-4 inhibitor, was comparable with that of a metformin + SU combination, but safer with respect to the risk of developing hypoglycemia. Addition of vildaglptin to metformin monotherapy may cause an additional favorable effect in reducing body weight at the expense of a fat component, with the lean body mass being preserved, and in elevating the level of adiponectin, an adipose tissue-derived antiatherogenic hormone.

UI  - 24135218
TI  - 25 (OH) vitamin D levels and renal disease progression in patients with type 2 diabetic nephropathy and blockade of the renin-angiotensin system.
AB  - These results show that 25 (OH) vitamin D deficiency is independently associated with a higher risk of the composite outcome in patients with type II diabetic nephropathy.

UI  - 24132772
TI  - An open-label drug-drug interaction study of the steady-state pharmacokinetics of topiramate and glyburide in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - Glyburide did not affect the pharmacokinetics of topiramate. Co-administration of topiramate decreased systemic exposure of glyburide and its active metabolites; combined treatment may require dosing adjustments of glyburide as per clinical judgment and glycemic control.

UI  - 24129396
TI  - Determinants of reversibility of -cell dysfunction in response to short-term intensive insulin therapy in patients with early type 2 diabetes.
AB  - Short-term intensive insulin therapy (IIT) can improve pancreatic -cell function when administered early in the course of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). However, the degree of improvement in response to this therapy varies between patients. Thus, we sought to characterize the determinants of improvement in -cell function in response to short-term IIT in early T2DM. Sixty-three patients with mean 3.0  2.1 yr duration of T2DM and Hb A1c of 6.8  0.8% underwent 4 wk of IIT consisting of basal insulin detemir and premeal insulin aspart, with oral glucose tolerance test administered at baseline and 1 day post-IIT. -Cell function before and after IIT was assessed by Insulin Secretion Sensitivity Index-2 (ISSI-2). Reversibility of -cell dysfunction was defined as percentage change in ISSI-2 of 25%. Overall, the study population experienced an increase in ISSI-2 from baseline to post-IIT (P = 0.01), with one-third of participants achieving 25% improvement in ISSI-2. Compared with their peers, those with increases in ISSI-2 of 25% had greater decrements in fasting glucose (P < 0.0001), Hb A1c (P = 0.001), ALT (P = 0.04), AST (P = 0.02), and HOMA-IR (P < 0.0001). On logistical regression analysis, baseline Hb A1c (OR = 2.83, 95% CI 1.16-6.88, P = 0.02) and change in HOMA-IR (OR = 0.008, 95%CI 0.0004-0.16, P = 0.001) emerged as independent predictors of reversibility of -cell dysfunction. Indeed, reversibility of -cell dysfunction was achieved in only those participants in whom IIT yielded an improvement in HOMA-IR. In conclusion, decline in HOMA-IR may be a key determinant of improvement of -cell function in response to short-term IIT, suggesting a fundamental contribution of insulin resistance to the reversible component of -cell dysfunction in early T2DM.

UI  - 24124961
TI  - A novel insulin combination of insulin degludec and insulin aspart achieves a more stable overnight glucose profile than insulin glargine: results from continuous glucose monitoring in a proof-of-concept trial.
AB  - IDegAsp given with the evening meal reduces postdinner glucose excursion and provides more stable nocturnal glycemia as compared with IGlar.

UI  - 24124952
TI  - Model-based closed-loop glucose control in type 1 diabetes: the DiaCon experience.
AB  - This study suggests that our novel MPC algorithm can safely and effectively control glucose overnight, also when CL control is initiated during hyperglycemia.

UI  - 24120715
TI  - High-quality triplicate electrocardiogram monitoring in a first-in-man study: potential for early detection of drug-induced QT prolongation.
AB  - Clinically relevant QT interval prolongations can be detected during first-in-man studies using high-quality ECG monitoring. Such data may facilitate early decision making on whether to terminate the development of a compound and invest resources in more promising molecules; and it may enable more efficient TQT study design or preclude the need for future TQT studies.

UI  - 24118688
TI  - Efficacy and safety of canagliflozin in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus inadequately controlled with metformin and sulphonylurea: a randomised trial.
AB  - Canagliflozin improved glycaemic control, reduced body weight, and was generally well tolerated in T2DM patients on metformin plus sulphonylurea over 52weeks.

UI  - 24118640
TI  - Initial combination of linagliptin and metformin in patients with type 2 diabetes: efficacy and safety in a randomised, double-blind 1-year extension study.
AB  - The initial combination of linagliptin and metformin appears to provide a useful treatment option in patients whose blood glucose levels are increased to an extent that metformin monotherapy may not achieve treatment targets.

UI  - 24113668
TI  - Exenatide once weekly versus daily basal insulin as add-on treatment to metformin with or without a sulfonylurea: a retrospective pooled analysis in patients with poor glycemic control.
AB  - Basal insulin (b-INS) is typically the add-on treatment of choice for patients with poor glycemic control (ie, glycated hemoglobin [HbA1c] level  8.5%), but it is unclear whether b-INS is the best option. In this post hoc analysis, the efficacy and tolerability of exenatide once weekly (EQW) were compared with those of b-INS in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and a baseline HbA1c level 8.5% who were undergoing treatment with metformin  a sulfonylurea. Data were pooled from two 26-week, randomized, controlled trials (EQW vs insulin glargine and EQW vs insulin detemir [EQW, N = 137; b-INS, N = 126]). Treatment with either EQW or b-INS for 26 weeks was associated with significant improvements in HbA1c level compared with baseline, although patients treated with EQW experienced a significantly greater decrease in HbA1c level than those treated with b-INS (least squares [LS] mean  SE: -2.0%  0.08% vs -1.6%  0.08%; P = 0.0008). Treatment with EQW was associated with a weight loss of 2.4 kg  0.23 kg (LS mean  SE), whereas treatment with b-INS was associated with a weight gain of 2.0 kg  0.24 kg (LS mean difference between groups, -4.4 kg  0.33; P < 0.0001). Patients in the EQW group were significantly more likely to achieve the composite endpoint of an HbA1c level < 7.0%, no weight gain, and no hypoglycemic events (defined as a blood glucose level < 54 mg/dL requiring self-treatment or assistance to resolve) than patients in the b-INS group (33.6% vs 3.2%; P < 0.0001). The exposure-adjusted hypoglycemic event rates were 0.08 and 0.37 events per patient-year in the EQW and b-INS groups, respectively. Gastrointestinal adverse events occurred at a higher rate in patients who underwent EQW treatment than those who were treated with b-INS. These results show that EQW treatment was associated with significantly greater improvement in HbA1c level compared with b-INS treatment among patients with poor glycemic control, with the added benefits of weight loss (vs weight gain with b-INS therapy) and a lower incidence of hypoglycemic events. These results suggest that EQW is an alternative treatment to b-INS for patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and a baseline HbA1c level  8.5%.

UI  - 24113620
TI  - Diabetes mellitus without metformin intake is associated with worse oncologic outcomes after radical nephroureterectomy for upper tract urothelial carcinoma.
AB  - Diabetic UTUC patients without metformin use have significantly worse oncologic outcomes than diabetics who used metformin and non-diabetics. The possible mechanism behind the impact of DM on UTUC biology and the potentially protective effect of metformin need further elucidation.

UI  - 24107738
TI  - Low dose spironolactone reduces blood pressure in patients with resistant hypertension and type 2 diabetes mellitus: a double blind randomized clinical trial.
AB  - Low dose spironolactone exerts significant BP and urinary albumin creatinine ratio lowering effects in high-risk patients with resistant hypertension and type 2 diabetes mellitus.

UI  - 24098467
TI  - Pitavastatin and Atorvastatin double-blind randomized comPArative study among hiGh-risk patients, including thOse with Type 2 diabetes mellitus, in Taiwan (PAPAGO-T Study).
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT01386853 http://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT01386853?term=NCT01386853&rank=1.

UI  - 24094567
TI  - A brief psychological intervention to improve adherence in type 2 diabetes.
AB  - Contrary to conventional medical belief, discussing threatening personal events with patients can yield positive results. Health professionals should take threat and mastery perceptions of diabetes into account during regular consultations with a view to improving treatment acceptance and adherence. With this brief intervention of type 2 diabetes patients, it was also more effective to alleviate their emotional difficulties than to enhance their perception of mastery.

UI  - 24094079
TI  - RESEARCH (Recognized effect of Statin and ezetimibe therapy for achieving LDL-C Goal), a randomized, doctor-oriented, multicenter trial to compare the effects of higher-dose statin versus ezetimibe-plus-statin on the serum LDL-C concentration of Japanese type-2 diabetes patients design and rationale.
AB  - RESEARCH is the first prospective, parallel-group, multicenter study comparing a double dose of strong statin with ezetimibe plus strong statin for T2DM patients. The RESEARCH study will provide reliable evidence with which to establish a clinical strategy for diabetics who fail to achieve the target LDL-C value.

UI  - 24088749
TI  - Variations in inflammatory biomarkers following the addition of sitagliptin in patients with type 2 diabetes not controlled with metformin.
AB  - When treatment with metformin alone is not adequate for obtaining glycemic control, the addition of sitagliptin can be considered due to its actions in preserving the -cell function and reducing the levels of biomarkers of inflammation.

UI  - 24083804
TI  - Rationale and design of a randomized trial on the impact of aldosterone antagonism on cardiac structure and function in diabetic cardiomyopathy.
AB  - ACTRN12610001063000.

UI  - 24082018
TI  - Influence of retirement on nonadherence to medication for hypertension and diabetes.
AB  - We found a decline in adherence to medication after retirement among men and women with hypertension and men with type 2 diabetes. If these findings can be confirmed, we need randomized controlled trials to determine whether interventions to reduce poor adherence after retirement could improve clinical outcomes of treatments for hypertension and diabetes.

UI  - 24079842
TI  - Economic evaluation of continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion for children with diabetes - a pilot study: CSII application for children - economic evaluation.
AB  - Continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion appears to be more cost-effective for the Bulgarian pediatric population and health care system.

UI  - 24079645
TI  - Comparison of the hypoglycemic effect of sitagliptin versus the combination of mitiglinide and voglibose in drug-nave Japanese patients with type 2 diabetes.
AB  - M+V achieved better control of PPG excursion than S.

UI  - 24078913
TI  - Time course of improvement of metabolic parameters after a 12 week physical exercise programme in patients with type 2 diabetes: the influence of gender in a Nigerian population.
AB  - Gender is a major determinant of the outcomes of many health interventions. This study documents the order of significant improvements in metabolic parameters of patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) having metabolic syndrome within 12 weeks of physical exercise programmes. Twenty-nine patients, mean age 49.6  3.7 years, presenting with high fasting plasma glucose, high triglycerides, hypertension, and high waist circumference undertook a thrice weekly aerobic and endurance exercise programme in addition to their drugs and diet. Variables were assessed at baseline and end of every two weeks for twelve weeks. Compared with baseline, significant improvement (P < 0.05) in the metabolic parameters occurred in this order for the male participants: fasting glucose (2nd week), triglycerides and waist circumference (4th week), and systolic blood pressure (12th week). For the female participants, it was fasting glucose (4th week), triglycerides (6th week), and waist circumference (10th week). Regardless of the gender, fasting glucose was the first to improve significantly, followed by triglycerides. Hypertension did not improve significantly at all in the female participants as they may require more than twelve weeks of therapeutic exercise for any significant improvement in hypertension.

UI  - 24076594
TI  - Serum IL-18 and hsCRP correlate with insulin resistance without effect of calcitriol treatment on type 2 diabetes.
AB  - Inflammation was associated with insulin resistance in diabetic patients. No anti-inflammatory effect of Calcitriol in terms of decreasing hsCRP, IL-6 and IL-18 detected.

UI  - 24075453
TI  - Impact of interleukin-1 antibody (canakinumab) on glycaemic indicators in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus: results of secondary endpoints from a randomized, placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - Registry: http://www.ClinicalTrials.gov, Registration No.: NCT00900146.

UI  - 24065375
TI  - Predictors of high platelet reactivity during aspirin treatment in patients with type 2 diabetes.
AB  - 1. Patients with DM2 are characterised by large variability of platelet reactivity, with little agreement between various methods. 2. Smoking, chronic heart failure, and subclinical inflammation may be associated with high platelet reactivity in patients with DM2 treated with ASA.

UI  - 24065152
TI  - Start of insulin therapy in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus promotes the influx of macrophages into subcutaneous adipose tissue.
AB  - The study was funded by European Foundation for the Study of Diabetes and the Dutch Diabetes Research Foundation.

UI  - 24065010
TI  - Effect of sensor-augmented insulin pump therapy and automated insulin suspension vs standard insulin pump therapy on hypoglycemia in patients with type 1 diabetes: a randomized clinical trial.
AB  - anzctr.org.au Identifier: ACTRN12610000024044.

UI  - 24064677
TI  - The glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonist, liraglutide, attenuates the progression of overt diabetic nephropathy in type 2 diabetic patients.
AB  - Diabetic nephropathy (DN) is the leading cause of end-stage renal disease. Glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) is one of the incretins, gut hormones released from the intestine in response to food intake. GLP-1 receptor (GLP-1R) agonists have been used to treat type 2 diabetes. Here, we studied the effect of the administration of a GLP-1R agonist, liraglutide, on proteinuria and the progression of overt DN in type 2 diabetic patients. Twenty-three type 2 diabetic patients with overt DN, who had already been treated with blockade of renin-angiotensin system under dietary sodium restriction, were given liraglutide for a period of 12 months. Treatment with liraglutide caused a significant decrease in HbA1c from 7.4  0.2% to 6.9  0.3% (p = 0.04), and in body mass index (BMI) from 27.6  0.9 kg/m to 26.5  0.8 kg/m after 12 months (p < 0.001), while systolic blood pressure did not change. The progression of DN was determined as the rate of decline in estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR). The 12-month administration of liraglutide caused a significant decrease in proteinuria from 2.53  0.48 g/g creatinine to 1.47  0.28 g/g creatinine (p = 0.002). The administration of liraglutide also substantially diminished the rate of decline in eGFR from 6.6  1.5 mL/min/1.73 m/year to 0.3  1.9 mL/min/1.73 m/year (p = 0.003). Liraglutide can be used not only for reducing HbA1c and BMI, but also for attenuating the progression of nephropathy in type 2 diabetic patients.

UI  - 24063835
TI  - Comparison of dual versus triple antiplatelet therapy after drug-eluting stent according to stent length (from the pooled analysis of DECLARE trials).
AB  - There are no practical criteria for the use of triple antiplatelet therapy after drug-eluting stent (DES) implantation. In our present report, pooled analysis of 3 randomized studies in patients with diabetes mellitus (Drug-Eluting Stenting Followed by Cilostazol treatment reduces LAte Restenosis in patients with diabetes mellitus trial) and long coronary narrowings (Drug-Eluting Stenting Followed by Cilostazol Treatment Reduces Late Restenosis in Patients with Long Coronary Lesions trials I and II) compared triple (aspirin, clopidogrel, and cilostazol; triple group, n= 700) and dual antiplatelet therapies (aspirin and clopidogrel; dual group, n= 699) after DES implantation. Among pooled population (n= 1,399 patients), 1,173 patients with follow-up angiography were divided into 3 stent length categories (20, 20 to 40, and >40mm). There was no statistical significance of in-stent restenosis (ISR) in 20- and 20- to 40-mm categories between 2 groups. However, ISR rate was significantly reduced in triple versus dual group in >40-mm stent length category (12.4% vs 22.1%, p= 0.008). In diabetic patients, triple group also showed significant reduction in the ISR rate in >40-mm stent length category (15.4% vs 32.3%, p= 0.003). According to postprocedural minimal lumen diameter, triple group showed a trend toward a lower ISR than that of the dual group in all categories (p= 0.033 for 2.5mm, p= 0.087 for 2.5 to 3.0mm, and p= 0.119 for >3.0mm). In conclusion, the triple group had a significantly reduced ISR in patients with >40-mm stent length after DES implantation compared with the dual group. Therefore, this suggestion for use of triple antiplatelet therapy could be easily applied after DES implantation in routine clinical practice.

UI  - 24060300
TI  - [Intravitreal triamcinolone combined with grid laser photocoagulation for patients with cystoid macular edema and advanced diabetic retinopathy: pilot study].
AB  - Although all of our patients showed an improvement of cystoid DME by means of OCT and fluorescein angiography, 42.8% (6 eyes) lost 2 or more lines in BCVA with primary intravitreal injection of TA plus GLP. Primary intravitreal injection of TA plus GLP may not be effective for cystoid DME at 12-months.

UI  - 24057294
TI  - Effects of pioglitazone on bone in postmenopausal women with impaired fasting glucose or impaired glucose tolerance: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study.
AB  - Maximal-dose pioglitazone had no effects on BMD or bone turnover, while improving glycemic control as expected, in postmenopausal women with impaired fasting glucose or impaired glucose tolerance.

UI  - 24057153
TI  - Insulin degludec is not associated with a delayed or diminished response to hypoglycaemia compared with insulin glargine in type 1 diabetes: a double-blind randomised crossover study.
AB  - Novo Nordisk.

UI  - 24053906
TI  - Association of diabetes mellitus and metformin use with oncological outcomes of patients with non-muscle-invasive bladder cancer.
AB  - Patients with DM and NMIBC who do not take metformin seem to be at an increased risk of disease recurrence and progression; metformin use seems to exert a protective effect with regard to disease recurrence. The mechanisms behind the impact of DM on patients with NMIBC and the potential protective effect of metformin need further elucidation.

UI  - 24053480
TI  - Efficacy of combination of Ezetimibe 10 mg and rosuvastatin 2.5 mg versus rosuvastatin 5 mg monotherapy for hypercholesterolemia in patients with type 2 diabetes.
AB  - UMIN000011005.

UI  - 24053450
TI  - Biphasic insulin aspart 30 in insulin-naive people with type 2 diabetes in non-western nations: results from a regional comparative multinational observational study (A(1)chieve).
AB  - Insulin-naive people with T2DM beginning aspart premix insulin in routine clinical practice in non-western nations had clinically useful improvements in blood glucose control after 24 weeks in all seven regions. Improvements from baseline for glucose control variables were greater than cross-regional differences in those variables at 24 weeks.

UI  - 24051686
TI  - Residual -cell mass influences growth of prepubertal children with type 1 diabetes.
AB  - Despite insulin intensive therapy, T1D still negatively affects growth. Residual -cell mass has a direct positive impact on growth, independently from the quality of glycemic control.

UI  - 24050942
TI  - Adherence and renal biopsy feasibility in the Renin Angiotensin-System Study (RASS) primary prevention diabetes trial.
AB  - T1DM patients without nephropathy were willing to take experimental medications and undergo repeat renal biopsies. Although overall adherence was excellent, patterns of adherence varied among participants, suggesting the need to better track adherence and to develop customized and targeted approaches for promoting adherence to clinical research regimens. Staff subjective predictions of adherence were imprecise, supporting need for further development of adherence predictors.

UI  - 24050737
TI  - A comparative study of the effects of a dipeptidyl peptidase-IV inhibitor and sulfonylurea on glucose variability in patients with type 2 diabetes with inadequate glycemic control on metformin.
AB  - When sitagliptin was combined with metformin, the patients showed much more efficient blood glucose controlling effects, not only the three indexes of fasting blood glucose, postprandial blood glucose, and glycated hemoglobin, but also MAGE.

UI  - 24050578
TI  - Capparis spinosa L. (Caper) fruit extract in treatment of type 2 diabetic patients: a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled clinical trial.
AB  - Caper fruit extract may be a safe anti-hyperglycemic and anti-hypertriglyceridemic agent for type 2 diabetic patients.

UI  - 24050577
TI  - Improved glycemic control and lipid profile in hyperlipidemic type 2 diabetic patients consuming Salvia officinalis L. leaf extract: a randomized placebo. Controlled clinical trial.
AB  - S. officinalis leaves may be safe and have anti-hyperglycemic and lipid profile improving effects in hyperlipidemic type 2 diabetic patients.

UI  - 24043256
TI  - Impact of sex on the heart's metabolic and functional responses to diabetic therapies.
AB  - Increased myocardial lipid delivery is a determinant of myocardial substrate metabolism and function in animal models of type 2 diabetes (T2DM). Sex also has major effects on myocardial metabolism in the human heart. Our aims were to determine whether 1) sex affects the myocardial metabolic response to lipid lowering in T2DM, 2) altering lipid [fatty acid (FA) or triglyceride] delivery to the heart would lower the elevated myocardial lipid metabolism associated with T2DM, and 3) decreasing lipid delivery improves diastolic dysfunction in T2DM. To this end, we studied 78 T2DM patients (43 women) with positron emission tomography, echocardiography, and whole body tracer studies before and 3 mo after randomization to metformin (MET), metformin + rosiglitazone (ROSI), or metformin + Lovaza (LOV). No treatment main effects were found for myocardial substrate metabolism, partly because men and women often had different responses to a given treatment. In men, MET decreased FA clearance, which was linked to increased plasma FA levels, myocardial FA utilization and oxidation, and lower myocardial glucose utilization. In women, ROSI increased FA clearance, thereby decreasing plasma FA levels and myocardial FA utilization. Although LOV did not change triglyceride levels, it improved diastolic function, particularly in men. Group and sex also interacted in determining myocardial glucose uptake. Thus, in T2DM, different therapeutic regimens impact myocardial metabolism and diastolic function in a sex-specific manner. This suggests that sex should be taken into account when designing a patient's diabetes treatment.

UI  - 24042256
TI  - Effect of low-dose aspirin on primary prevention of cardiovascular events in Japanese diabetic patients at high risk.
AB  - Low-dose aspirin is not beneficial in Japanese diabetic patients at high risk.

UI  - 24007452
TI  - Mobile health (mHealth) based medication adherence measurement - a pilot trial using electronic blisters in diabetes patients.
AB  - The results indicate that mHealth based adherence management is feasible and well accepted by patients with increased cardiovascular risk. It may help to increase adherence, even in patients with high baseline adherence and, subsequently, lead to improved control of indicators including blood pressure and cholesterol concentrations. Electronic blisters can be used in a multi-medication regimen but need to be carefully designed for day-to-day application.

UI  - 24030946
TI  - Effects of pioglitazone on visceral fat metabolic activity in impaired glucose tolerance or type 2 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - Our study indicated that pioglitazone decreased the visceral fat volume and its metabolic activity in patients with impaired glucose tolerance or type 2 diabetes mellitus. The beneficial effects of pioglitazone on visceral fat may be independent of its glucose-lowering effect.

UI  - 24026211
TI  - Efficacy and safety of canagliflozin compared with placebo and sitagliptin in patients with type 2 diabetes on background metformin monotherapy: a randomised trial.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT01106677 FUNDING: This study was supported by Janssen Research & Development, LLC.

UI  - 24026038
TI  - Effects of dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system on renal and cardiovascular outcomes in type 2 diabetes with overt nephropathy and hypertension in the ORIENT: a post-hoc analysis (ORIENT-Hypertension).
AB  - Combination therapy with angiotensin II receptor blockers and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs) requires further evaluation in patients with diabetic nephropathy and hypertension. In a post hoc analysis of the Olmesartan Reducing Incidence of Endstage renal disease in diabetic Nephropathy Trial with hypertension, we examined the effects of olmesartan on renal and cardiovascular outcomes in the presence or absence of an ACEI. Among 563 patients randomized to receive either olmesartan (n = 280) or placebo (n = 283), 73.5% (n = 414) received a concomitant ACEI. Compared with placebo, olmesartan significantly reduced proteinuria in both the ACEI-treated and non-ACEI-treated groups. The respective changes in the urinary protein creatinine ratio in the olmesartan-treated and placebo-treated groups were -32.6% and +21.1% without an ACEI (P = 0.001) and -17.0% and +2.2% with an ACEI (P = 0.028). In the olmesartan group, 115 patients developed primary renal outcomes (41.1%) compared with 129 (45.6%) in the placebo group (hazard ratio (HR): 0.97, P = 0.787). The respective HRs in the ACEI-treated and non-ACEI-treated groups were 1.02 (P = 0.891) and 0.84 (P = 0.450). 40 olmesartan-treated patients (14.3%) and 53 placebo-treated patients (18.7%) developed secondary cardiovascular outcomes (HR: 0.65, P = 0.042). The respective HRs in the ACEI-treated and non-ACEI-treated groups were 0.69 (P = 0.129) and 0.51 (P = 0.129). Olmesartan was well tolerated. Dual blockade treatment caused more hyperkalemia than monotherapy. In patients with diabetic nephropathy and hypertension, olmesartan significantly reduced proteinuria, independent of ACEI treatment and cardiovascular outcome but failed to show additional renal benefit compared with ACEI treatment alone. The cardiovascular benefit of dual treatment requires further evaluation.

UI  - 24024769
TI  - Chromium nicotinate has no effect on insulin sensitivity, glycemic control, and lipid profile in subjects with type 2 diabetes.
AB  - Supplementation at 50 and 200 g of chromium as chromium nicotinate did not promote glycemic control, increase insulin sensitivity, or change the lipid profile of subjects with diabetes.

UI  - 24016490
TI  - Evaluation of the dual peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor / agonist aleglitazar to reduce cardiovascular events in patients with acute coronary syndrome and type 2 diabetes mellitus: rationale and design of the AleCardio trial.
AB  - AleCardio will establish whether the PPAR-/ agonist aleglitazar improves cardiovascular outcomes in patients with diabetes and high-risk coronary disease.

UI  - 24014218
TI  - Frequency of drug-induced valvular heart disease in patients previously exposd to benfluorex: a multicentre prospective study.
AB  - About 7% of patients without a history of heart valve disease previously exposed to benfluorex present echocardiography features of DI-VHD. Further studies are needed to study the natural history of DI-VHD and to identify risk factors for the development of drug-induced valve lesions.

UI  - 24013651
TI  - Structural and functional measures of efficacy in response to bevacizumab monotherapy in diabetic macular oedema: exploratory analyses of the BOLT study (report 4).
AB  - These findings provide valuable information both for clinical practice and trials. Further studies are required to investigate the impact of intravitreal bevacizumab on retinal thickness profiles in DMO.

UI  - 24011681
TI  - Diabetes with comorbid depression: role of SSRI in better glycemic control.
AB  - Escitalopram is effective in treating depression in patients with diabetes mellitus, and has beneficial effects on glycemic control.

UI  - 24011395
TI  - Baseline and 1-year interim follow-up assessment of Japanese patients initiating insulin therapy who were enrolled in the cardiovascular risk evaluation in people with type 2 diabetes on insulin therapy study: an international, multicenter, observational study.
AB  - Our results suggest that insulin treatment is an effective and safe therapeutic option in Japanese patients with T2DM, and earlier insulin initiation might be associated with better glycemic control.

UI  - 24011069
TI  - The effects of LY2405319, an FGF21 analog, in obese human subjects with type 2 diabetes.
AB  - Fibroblast growth factor 21 (FGF21) is a recently discovered metabolic regulator. Exogenous FGF21 produces beneficial metabolic effects in animal models; however, the translation of these observations to humans has not been tested. Here, we studied the effects of LY2405319 (LY), a variant of FGF21, in a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind proof-of-concept trial in patients with obesity and type 2 diabetes. Patients received placebo or 3, 10, or 20 mg of LY daily for 28 days. LY treatment produced significant improvements in dyslipidemia, including decreases in low-density lipoprotein cholesterol and triglycerides and increases in high-density lipoprotein cholesterol and a shift to a potentially less atherogenic apolipoprotein concentration profile. Favorable effects on body weight, fasting insulin, and adiponectin were also detected. However, only a trend toward glucose lowering was observed. These results indicate that FGF21 is bioactive in humans and suggest that FGF21-based therapies may be effective for the treatment of selected metabolic disorders.

UI  - 24007456
TI  - Rationale, design and baseline characteristics of a 4-year (208-week) phase III trial of empagliflozin, an SGLT2 inhibitor, versus glimepiride as add-on to metformin in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus with insufficient glycemic control.
AB  - Clinicaltrials.gov NCT01167881.

UI  - 24004460
TI  - Active post-marketing surveillance of the intralesional administration of human recombinant epidermal growth factor in diabetic foot ulcers.
AB  - The favorable benefit/risk balance, confirms the beneficial clinical profile of intralesional hrEGF in the treatment of DFUs.

UI  - 24002894
TI  - Clinical effect of addition of beraprost sodium to pioglitazone treatment on the blood glucose levels in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - In recent years, the number of patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus caused by insulin resistance has continued to increase in Japan. Insulin resistance is considered to be closely related to the risk of cardiovascular diseases and atherosclerotic diseases, represented by arteriosclerosis obliterans (ASO). Therefore, improvement of insulin resistance is one of the important strategies in the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus. At present, -glucosidase inhibitors, incretin-related drugs, and thiazolidinediones are among the most important oral hypoglycemic drugs used to improve insulin resistance. In this study, the effect of beraprost sodium, a prostaglandin I2 derivative, in the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus was investigated. In type 2 diabetic patients with ASO who were under treatment with pioglitazone, additional treatment with beraprost sodium exerted a significant synergistic effect in reducing the serum HbA1c levels as compared to treatment with pioglitazone alone. This result indicates that concomitant administration of pioglitazone and beraprost sodium may be useful in the treatment of diabetes -mellitus.

UI  - 24001317
TI  - The effect of vildagliptin relative to sulphonylureas in Muslim patients with type 2 diabetes fasting during Ramadan: the VIRTUE study.
AB  - In this real-world study of fasting Muslim patients with T2DM, vildagliptin was associated with significantly fewer hypoglycaemic episodes compared with SU therapy. This outcome is particularly meaningful when viewed in the context of good glycaemic and weight control observed in vildagliptin-treated patients. Vildagliptin was well tolerated in this patient population.

UI  - 23999642
TI  - Testosterone deficiency is associated with increased risk of mortality and testosterone replacement improves survival in men with type 2 diabetes.
AB  - Low testosterone levels predict an increase in all-cause mortality during long-term follow-up. Testosterone replacement may improve survival in hypogonadal men with type 2 diabetes.

UI  - 23999456
TI  - Effect of aliskiren on post-discharge outcomes among diabetic and non-diabetic patients hospitalized for heart failure: insights from the ASTRONAUT trial.
AB  - This pre-specified subgroup analysis from the ASTRONAUT trial generates the hypothesis that the addition of aliskiren to standard HHF therapy in non-diabetic patients is generally well-tolerated and improves post-discharge outcomes and biomarker profiles. In contrast, diabetic patients receiving aliskiren appear to have worse post-discharge outcomes. Future prospective investigations are needed to confirm potential benefits of renin inhibition in a large cohort of HHF patients without DM.

UI  - 23999452
TI  - Does hypoglycaemia increase the risk of cardiovascular events? A report from the ORIGIN trial.
AB  - Severe hypoglycaemia is associated with an increased risk for CV outcomes in people at high CV risk and dysglycaemia. Although allocation to insulin glargine vs. standard care was associated with an increased risk of severe and non-severe hypoglycaemia, the relative risk of CV outcomes with hypoglycaemia was lower with insulin glargine-based glucose-lowering therapy than with the standard glycaemic control. Trial Registration (ORIGIN ClinicalTrials.gov number NCT00069784).

UI  - 23998560
TI  - Treat-to-target comparison between once daily biphasic insulin aspart 30 and insulin glargine in Chinese and Japanese insulin-nave subjects with type 2 diabetes.
AB  - BIAsp 30 once daily showed similar HbA1c reduction and a similar safety profile to IGlar when used in insulin-nave Chinese and Japanese patients on metformin and a sulfonylurea. Moreover, it provided a better coverage of post-dinner glycemic control needs than those who received IGlar. The open-label design and insufficient insulin dose titration were the main limitations of the study.

UI  - 23994919
TI  - [Metabolic therapy in neurology].
AB  - We studied the efficacy of rheosorbilact, an original infusion drug based on polyalcohols, in the complex therapy of patients with brain ischemia and diabetic neuropathy. Reosorbilact was used intravenously indrops 200-400 ml in day - 20 days. The primary endpoint of the study was the improvement of quality of life assessed with the SF-36 scale after 1 month of treatment. Patients with brain ischemia underwent neuropsychological tests and ultrasound duplex scanning of the carotid and vertebral arteries. In the group of patients with diabetic neuropathy, we evaluated the intensity of pain syndrome with the NRS, blood glucose level and electroneuromyography parameters of low extremities nerves. Some characteristics of acid-base balance were studied in patients of both groups. The results obtained in the study indicate the significant clinical effect of reosorbilact in patients with brain ischemia and diabetic neuropathy.

UI  - 23993469
TI  - Acarbose plus metformin fixed-dose combination outperforms acarbose monotherapy for type 2 diabetes.
AB  - Compared with acarbose monotherapy, acarbose/metformin FDC has superior antihyperglycaemic efficacy, brings proportionally more T2D patients to HbA1c goal, and further reduces bodyweight. Acarbose/metformin FDC is well-tolerated without significant risk of hypoglycaemia and is a potentially advantageous therapy for T2D.

UI  - 23992602
TI  - Alogliptin after acute coronary syndrome in patients with type 2 diabetes.
AB  - Among patients with type 2 diabetes who had had a recent acute coronary syndrome, the rates of major adverse cardiovascular events were not increased with the DPP-4 inhibitor alogliptin as compared with placebo. (Funded by Takeda Development Center Americas; EXAMINE ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00968708.).

UI  - 23992601
TI  - Saxagliptin and cardiovascular outcomes in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - DPP-4 inhibition with saxagliptin did not increase or decrease the rate of ischemic events, though the rate of hospitalization for heart failure was increased. Although saxagliptin improves glycemic control, other approaches are necessary to reduce cardiovascular risk in patients with diabetes. (Funded by AstraZeneca and Bristol-Myers Squibb; SAVOR-TIMI 53 ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT01107886.).

UI  - 23991629
TI  - Short-term continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion combined with insulin sensitizers rosiglitazone, metformin, or antioxidant -lipoic acid in patients with newly diagnosed type 2 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - Short-term CSII in combination with rosiglitazone or metformin is superior to CSII alone, yet the efficacy of the two differs in some way, whereas that with -lipoic acid might not have an additive effect.

UI  - 23990203
TI  - Association between urinary albumin excretion and low-density lipoprotein heterogeneity following treatment of type 2 diabetes patients with the dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitor, vildagliptin: a pilot study.
AB  - Although this was a single-arm study, treatment of type 2 diabetes with vildagliptin might prevent the progression of CVD complicating diabetes by improving LDL heterogeneity, and it might improve renal function by decreasing albuminuria. A randomized controlled trial is warranted.

UI  - 23984793
TI  - Effects of exenatide and metformin in combination on some adipocytokine levels: a comparison with metformin monotherapy.
AB  - The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of exenatide on levels of serum adipocytokines and on -cell function. The study was conducted between 2008 and 2012. After a run-in period with metformin, 174 patients with type-2 diabetes were randomly distributed to either a group receiving exenatide at 10 g twice daily, or a group receiving the placebo, for 12 months. We evaluated body mass index (BMI), blood pressure, glycemic control, lipid profile, fasting plasma insulin (FPI), HOMA-IR, HOMA-, fasting plasma proinsulin (FPPr), proinsulin : fasting plasma insulin ratio (Pr/FPI ratio), C-peptide, glucagon, retinol binding protein-4 (RBP-4), visfatin, omentin-1, and microalbuminuria. We used ELISA methods to assess the various parameters. Patients also underwent a combined euglycemic-hyperinsulinemic and hyperglycemic clamp, with subsequent arginine stimulation. After 12 months, a combination of exenatide and metformin produced a better decrease in body mass, BMI, glycemic control, FPI, FPPr, FPPr/FPI ratio, HOMA-IR, and glucagon level. Treatment with exenatide + metformin was superior to the placebo + metformin in increasing HOMA-, C-peptide, and -cell function. Significant negative correlations were found between M value, an index of insulin sensitivity, and measured adipocytokines. In conclusion, the combination of exenatide + metformin plays a role in improving some adipocytokine levels, and is better than metformin alone. The significant negative correlation between M value and measured adipocytokines is another confirmation of the positive effects linked to the improvement in insulin sensitivity.

UI  - 23984312
TI  - Cardiovascular and renal effects of bromocriptine in diabetic patients with stage 4 chronic kidney disease.
AB  - BEC resulted in a decrease on blood pressure and LVMI. BEC also prevented the progression of CKD while maintaining the creatinine clearance unchanged.

UI  - 23982218
TI  - Coordination chemistry may explain pharmacokinetics and clinical response of vanadyl sulfate in type 2 diabetic patients.
AB  - Vanadium, abbreviated V, is an early transition metal that readily forms coordination complexes with a variety of biological products such as proteins, metabolites, membranes and other structures. The formation of coordination complexes stabilizes metal ions, which in turn impacts the biodistribution of the metal. To understand the biodistribution of V, V in oxidation state iv in the form of vanadyl sulfate (25, 50, 100 mg V daily) was given orally for 6 weeks to 16 persons with type 2 diabetes. Elemental V was determined using Graphite Furnas Atomic Absorption Spectrometry against known concentrations of V in serum, blood or urine. Peak serum V levels were 15.4  6.5, 81.7  40 and 319  268 ng ml(-1) respectively, and mean peak serum V was positively correlated with dose administered (r = 0.992, p = 0.079), although large inter-individual variability was found. Total serum V concentration distribution fit a one compartment open model with a first order rate constant for excretion with mean half times of 4.7  1.6 days and 4.6  2.5 days for the 50 and 100 mg V dose groups respectively. At steady state, 24 hour urinary V output was 0.18  0.24 and 0.97  0.84 mg in the 50 and 100 mg V groups respectively, consistent with absorption of 1 percent or less of the administered dose. Peak V in blood and serum were positively correlated (r = 0.971, p < 0.0005). The serum to blood V ratio for the patients receiving 100 mg V was 1.7  0.45. Regression analysis showed that glycohemoglobin was a negative predictor of the natural log(ln) peak serum V (R(2) = 0.40, p = 0.009) and a positive predictor of the euglycemic-hyperinsulinemic clamp results at high insulin values (R(2) = 0.39, p = 0.010). Insulin sensitivity measured by euglycemic-hyperinsulinemic clamp was not significantly correlated with ln peak serum V. Globulin and glycohemoglobin levels taken together were negative predictors of fasting blood glucose (R(2) = 0.49, p = 0.013). Although V accumulation in serum was dose-dependent, no correlation between total serum V concentration and the insulin-like response was found in this first attempt to correlate anti-diabetic activity with total serum V. This study suggests that V pools other than total serum V are likely related to the insulin-like effect of this metal. These results, obtained in diabetic patients, document the need for consideration of the coordination chemistry of metabolites and proteins with vanadium in anti-diabetic vanadium complexes.

UI  - 23981104
TI  - Long-term effects of metformin on endothelial function in type 2 diabetes: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Metformin is associated with improvement in some (vWF and sVCAM-1) but not all markers of endothelial function, which may explain why it is associated with a decreased risk of CV disease in type 2 diabetes.

UI  - 23981060
TI  - Prognostic implications of DPP-4 inhibitor vs. sulfonylurea use on top of metformin in a real world setting - results of the 1 year follow-up of the prospective DiaRegis registry.
AB  - The present results confirm prior randomised controlled trial results in patients with type 2 diabetes from real world clinical practice demonstrating that DPP4-I on top of prior metformin monotherapy result in similar HbA1c reductions within 12 months but a significant reduction in hypoglycaemia compared with sulfonylurea added to metformin. The reduction in vascular events observed has to be verified in larger cohorts.

UI  - 23979954
TI  - Lifestyle and metformin treatment favorably influence lipoprotein subfraction distribution in the Diabetes Prevention Program.
AB  - ILS and metformin treatment have favorable effects on lipoprotein subfractions that are primarily mediated by intervention-related changes in insulin resistance, BMI, and adiponectin. Interventions that slow the development of diabetes may also retard the progression of atherosclerosis.

UI  - 23979788
TI  - Serum preadipocyte factor-1 concentrations in females with obesity and type 2 diabetes mellitus: the influence of very low calorie diet, acute hyperinsulinemia, and fenofibrate treatment.
AB  - Appropriate differentiation capacity of adipose tissue significantly affects its ability to store lipids and to protect nonadipose tissues against lipid spillover and development of insulin resistance. Preadipocyte factor-1 (Pref-1) is an important negative regulator of preadipocyte differentiation. The aim of our study was to explore the changes in circulating Pref-1 concentrations in female subjects with obesity (OB) (n=19), females with obesity and type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) (n=22), and sex- and age-matched healthy control subjects (C) (n=22), and to study its modulation by very low calorie diet (VLCD), acute hyperinsulinemia during isoglycemic-hyperinsulinemic clamp, and 3 months' treatment with PPAR- agonist fenofibrate. At baseline, serum Pref-1 concentrations were significantly higher in patients with T2DM compared to control group, while only nonsignificant trend towards higher levels was observed in OB group. 3 weeks of VLCD decreased Pref-1 levels in both OB and T2DM group, whereas 3 months of fenofibrate treatment had no significant effect. Hyperinsulinemia during the clamp significantly suppressed Pref-1 levels in both C and T2DM subjects and this suppression was unaffected by fenofibrate treatment. In a combined population of all groups, circulating Pref-1 levels correlated positively with insulin, leptin and glucose levels and HOMA (homeostasis model assessment) index. We conclude that elevated Pref-1 concentrations in T2DM subjects may contribute to impaired adipose tissue differentiation capacity associated with insulin resistance in obese patients with T2DM. The decrease of Pref-1 levels after VLCD may be involved in the improvement of metabolic status and the amelioration of insulin resistance in T2DM patients.

UI  - 23974915
TI  - Patient-reported visual function outcomes improve after ranibizumab treatment in patients with vision impairment due to diabetic macular edema: randomized clinical trial.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00687804.

UI  - 23973636
TI  - Effect of American ginseng (Panax quinquefolius L.) on arterial stiffness in subjects with type-2 diabetes and concomitant hypertension.
AB  - Addition of AG extract to conventional therapy in diabetes with concomitant hypertension improved arterial stiffness and attenuated systolic BP, thus warrants further investigation on long-term endothelial parameters before recommended as an adjunct treatment.

UI  - 23969187
TI  - Metreleptin improves blood glucose in patients with insulin receptor mutations.
AB  - Metreleptin treatment for 12 months was associated with a 1.7% reduction in HbA1c; part of this improvement was likely mediated via decreased BMI. Metreleptin is a promising treatment option for RMS, but additional therapies are needed to achieve HbA1c targets.

UI  - 23964994
TI  - Variability of skin autofluorescence measurement over 6 and 12 weeks and the influence of benfotiamine treatment.
AB  - In patients with T2DM, repeated, timely spaced SAF measurements have an intra-subject variability of below 11%. Using these data, sample sizes were calculated for interventional studies aiming at reducing SAF. Benfotiamine treatment for 6 weeks did not significantly influence SAF; for this, a longer-term therapy is probably needed.

UI  - 23958572
TI  - Criteria influencing the choice of starting insulin regimen in patients with type 2 diabetes in routine clinical practice: baseline data from the Algerian cohort of the Achieve study.
AB  - In routine practice, physicians in Algeria are more likely to prescribe basal insulin at initiation of insulin therapy in type 2 diabetes. The prescription of a premix insulin therapy correlated with poor glycaemic control and the incidence of microvascular complications.

UI  - 23958571
TI  - Exploring insulin analogue safety and effectiveness in a Maghrebian cohort with type 2 diabetes: results from the Achieve study.
AB  - Insulin analogue therapy was well-tolerated and was associated with improved glycaemic control.

UI  - 23958570
TI  - Initiating or switching to biphasic insulin aspart 30 in type 2 diabetes patients from Algeria: a sub-analysis of the Achieve study.
AB  - Initiating or switching to BIAsp 30 therapy in this Algerian cohort was well-tolerated and significantly improved glucose control.

UI  - 23958569
TI  - Safety and effectiveness of insulin analogues in Moroccan patients with type 2 diabetes: a sub-analysis of the Achieve study.
AB  - Insulin analogue therapy resulted in improved glycaemic control and a significant overall decrease in hypoglycaemia in Moroccan T2D patients.

UI  - 23958568
TI  - Safety and effectiveness of insulin analogues in type 2 diabetic patients from Algeria: a sub-analysis of the Achieve study.
AB  - Insulin analogue therapy was well-tolerated and significantly improved blood glucose control over 24 weeks in the Algerian cohort.

UI  - 23963123
TI  - Role of diabetes in the development of acute respiratory distress syndrome.
AB  - Diabetes is associated with a lower rate of acute respiratory distress syndrome development, and this relationship remained after adjusting for clinical differences between diabetics and nondiabetics, such as obesity, acute hyperglycemia, and diabetes-associated medications. In addition, this association was present for type 1 and 2 diabetics and in all subgroups of at-risk patients.

UI  - 23961850
TI  - Effectiveness and tolerability of second-line therapy with vildagliptin vs. other oral agents in type 2 diabetes: a real-life worldwide observational study (EDGE).
AB  - EDGE demonstrates that in a 'real-life' setting, vildagliptin as second OAD can lower HbA(1c) to target without well-recognised OAD side effects, more frequently than comparator OADs. In addition, EDGE illustrates that conducting large-scale, prospective, real-life studies poses challenges but yields valuable clinical information complementary to RCTs.

UI  - 23958390
TI  - Efficacy and safety of combination therapy with vildagliptin and metformin versus metformin up-titration in Chinese patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus: study design and rationale of the vision study.
AB  - The VISION study will test the hypothesis that early use of combination therapy with vildagliptin and metformin will provide good glycemic control and will be better tolerated than up-titration of metformin monotherapy. The study will also correlate these benefits with age and BMI.

UI  - 23955995
TI  - The beneficial effect of metformin on -cell function in non-obese Chinese subjects with newly diagnosed type 2 diabetes.
AB  - Metformin improved -cell function in non-obese subjects with newly diagnosed T2DM, which was partly independent of the change in insulin sensitivity in these subjects. This study provides evidence-based data to support metformin use in non-obese patients with T2DM as the first-line agent, which can improve both insulin sensitivity and -cell function.

UI  - 23953179
TI  - One-year real-life efficacy of sitagliptin revealed importance of concomitant pioglitazone use in Japanese patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - These data suggest that the baseline HbA1c value can be a factor that predicts the extent of HbA1c reduction and reveal a possibility that the concomitant use of pioglitazone augments glycemic responsiveness to sitagliptin.

UI  - 23952326
TI  - Comparison of insulin degludec with insulin glargine in insulin-naive subjects with Type2 diabetes: a 2-year randomized, treat-to-target trial.
AB  - In Type2 diabetes, insulin degludec in combination with oral anti-diabetic drugs, safely and effectively improves long-term glycaemic control, with a significantly lower risk of nocturnal hypoglycaemia as compared with glargine.

UI  - 23952104
TI  - Menarcheal age of type 1 diabetic Bengali Indian females.
AB  - Our study displays that age at menarche is delayed in young women with T1DM compared to the concurrent overall mean age at menarche in the West Bengal population.

UI  - 23949898
TI  - Saxagliptin add-on therapy to insulin with or without metformin for type 2 diabetes mellitus: 52-week safety and efficacy.
AB  - Saxagliptin 5 mg once daily as add-on to insulin, with or without concomitant metformin, produced a durable improvement in glycemic control and was well tolerated over 52 weeks of treatment.

UI  - 23948125
TI  - Linagliptin for patients aged 70 years or older with type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled with common antidiabetes treatments: a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - Boehringer Ingelheim.

UI  - 23945905
TI  - Association of depression with accelerated cognitive decline among patients with type 2 diabetes in the ACCORD-MIND trial.
AB  - Depression in patients with type 2 diabetes was associated with greater cognitive decline in all domains, across all treatment arms, and in all participant subgroups assessed. Future randomized trials will be necessary to determine if depression treatment can lower the risk of cognitive decline in patients with diabetes.

UI  - 23944631
TI  - Clinical inertia in the treatment of hyperglycemia in type 2 diabetes patients in primary care.
AB  - Clinical inertia affected one third of T2DM patients with poor glycemic control and was greater in patients treated with only lifestyle changes or oral monotherapy. Treatment changes were performed when mean HbA1c values were 1.4 points above therapeutic goals.

UI  - 23943142
TI  - The comparison of 24-hour urinary sodium, albumin, and protein excretion in chronic kidney disease patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus using insulin detemir or insulin glargine.
AB  - There was no difference between insulin detemir and insulin glargine with respect to sodium, albumin, and protein excretion in type 2 diabetic CKD patients. Studies are needed both in CKD patients and those with normal renal function to highlight mechanisms regarding the weight loss effect unique to insulin detemir.

UI  - 23935398
TI  - Comparison of the antialbuminuric effects of L-/N-type and L-type calcium channel blockers in hypertensive patients with diabetes and microalbuminuria: the study of assessment for kidney function by urinary microalbumin in randomized (SAKURA) trial.
AB  - Cilnidipine did not offer greater renoprotection than amlodipine in RAS inhibitor-treated hypertensive patients with type 2 diabetes and microalbuminuria.

UI  - 23932803
TI  - Statin use and lower extremity amputation risk in nonelderly diabetic patients.
AB  - This is the first study to report a significant association between statin use and diminished amputation risk among patients with diabetes. In this nonrandomized cohort, beneficial effects of statin therapy were similar to that seen in large-scale clinical trial experience. For LEA risk, those given nonstatins did not have a statistically significant benefit and its effect on LEA risk was much smaller compared with statins. Unanswered questions to be explored in future studies include a comparison of statins of moderate vs high potency in those with high risk of coronary heart disease and an exploration of whether the effects seen in this study are simply effects of cholesterol-lowering or possibly pleiotropic effects.

UI  - 23931739
TI  - ProAct study: new features of insulin pumps improve diabetes management and glycemic control in patients after transition of continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion systems.
AB  - Transition from older pump systems to the Accu-Chek Combo system in a large patient population resulted in stable glycemic control with significant improvements in HbA1c in patients with unsatisfactory baseline HbA1c and shorter pump use. Increased frequency of self-monitoring of blood glucose and decrease of bolus frequency could suggest a more confident diabetes management and a reduced need for correction boluses.

UI  - 23929932
TI  - Effect of renin-angiotensin system blockade on soluble Klotho in patients with type 2 diabetes, systolic hypertension, and albuminuria.
AB  - Treatment with a RAS blocker, valsartan, is associated with an increase in soluble Klotho, which may contribute to the BP-independent cardiorenal benefits of these drugs in DKD.

UI  - 23929924
TI  - Determinants and changes associated with aldosterone breakthrough after angiotensin II receptor blockade in patients with type 2 diabetes with overt nephropathy.
AB  - Aldosterone breakthrough is a frequent event 1 year after initiating renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system blockade, particularly in participants exposed to intensive lowering of BP with sodium depletion and short-acting angiotensin II receptor blockers. Short-term serum aldosterone level increases at 6 months are not associated with negative kidney outcomes between 6 months and 1 year.

UI  - 23927490
TI  - Shared decision making for patients with type 2 diabetes: a randomized trial in primary care.
AB  - NCT01029288.

UI  - 23926207
TI  - Effects of visit-to-visit variability in systolic blood pressure on macrovascular and microvascular complications in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus: the ADVANCE trial.
AB  - http://www.clinicaltrials.gov.

UI  - 23921483
TI  - Effect of chromium-enriched yeast on fasting plasma glucose, glycated haemoglobin and serum lipid levels in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus treated with insulin.
AB  - Chromium is required for a normal insulin function, and low levels have been linked with insulin resistance. The aim of this study was to follow the effect of chromium supplementation on fasting plasma glucose (FPG), glycated haemoglobin (HbA1c) and serum lipids in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM2) on insulin therapy. Eleven randomly selected patients with DM2 on insulin therapy were supplemented with a daily dose of 100 g chromium yeast for the first supplementation period of 2 weeks. In the second supplementation period, the chromium dose was doubled and continued for the next 6 weeks. The third phase was a 6-week washout period. After each period, the levels of FPG and HbA1c were compared with the corresponding values at the end of the previous period. Serum triglycerides, total HDL and LDL cholesterol values after supplementation were compared with the baseline values. FPG decreased significantly after the first period of chromium supplementation (p < 0.001), and a tendency to a further reduction was observed after the second supplementation period. Similarly, HbA1c decreased significantly in both periods (p < 0.02 and p < 0.002, respectively). Eight weeks after withdrawal of chromium supplementation, both FPG and HbA1c levels returned to their pre-intervention values. The serum lipid concentrations were not significantly influenced by chromium supplementation. Chromium supplementation could be beneficial in patients with DM2 treated with insulin, most likely due to lowered insulin resistance leading to improved glucose tolerance. This finding needs to be confirmed in a larger study.

UI  - 23917476
TI  - Monthly use of a real-time continuous glucose monitoring system as an educational and motivational tool for poorly controlled type 1 diabetes adolescents.
AB  - Short-term use of CGMS RT, united with satisfaction questionnaire, performed in poorly controlled teenagers with T1DM, can be useful in defining the group of young patients, who can benefit from long-term CGMS RT use in metabolic control improvement.

UI  - 23912974
TI  - Efficacy and safety of sitagliptin as add-on therapy on glycemic control and blood glucose fluctuation in Japanese type 2 diabetes subjects ongoing with multiple daily insulin injections therapy.
AB  - To assess the efficacy and safety of adding sitagliptin, an oral dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitor, in subjects with type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled with multiple daily insulin injections therapy (MDI). HbA1c, 1,5-anhydroglucitol (1,5-AG), body mass index (BMI), insulin doses, six-point self-measured plasma glucose (SMPG) profiles were assessed before, after 12 weeks, and after 24 weeks of MDI with 50 mg/day of sitagliptin in 40 subjects with type 2 diabetes. Safety endpoints included hypoglycemia and any adverse events. HbA1c significantly decreased during the first 12 weeks ( -0.640.60%), and was sustained over 24 weeks ( -0.690.85%). 1,5-AG increased significantly from 7.54.5 g/mL at baseline to 9.65.5 g/mL after 24 weeks. The bolus insulin dose at 12 weeks was decreased, and the mean plasma glucose, the SD of daily glucose, M-value, and the mean amplitude of glycemic excursions (MAGE) also decreased significantly as compared with baseline values. BMI and frequency of hypoglycemia were not changed significantly. Univariate linear regression analyses revealed that % change in HbA1c was significantly associated with BMI, and % changes in the indexes of glycemic instability (SD of daily glucose and MAGE) were significantly associated with age. In conclusion, adding sitagliptin to MDI significantly improved glycemic control and decreased the daily glucose fluctuation in subjects with type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled with MDI, without weight gain or an increase in the incidence of hypoglycemia. This trial was registered with UMIN (no. UMIN000010157).

UI  - 23911535
TI  - Differences in inpatient glycemic control and response to subcutaneous insulin therapy between medicine and surgery patients with type 2 diabetes.
AB  - The Basal Plus regimen with glargine once daily and correction doses with glulisine before meals resulted in similar glycemic control to basal bolus regimen. We observed no differences in response to either basal insulin regimen between medicine and surgery patients with type 2 diabetes.

UI  - 23911195
TI  - Weight versus pre-insulin-treatment assessment of insulin sensitivity to determine the starting basal insulin dose: a faster way to get to goal?
AB  - 

UI  - 23911183
TI  - ASPIRE In-Home: rationale, design, and methods of a study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of automatic insulin suspension for nocturnal hypoglycemia.
AB  - Nocturnal hypoglycemia is a barrier to therapy intensification efforts in diabetes. The Paradigm Veo system may mitigate nocturnal hypoglycemia by automatically suspending insulin when a prespecified sensor glucose threshold is reached. ASPIRE (Automation to Simulate Pancreatic Insulin REsponse) In-Home (NCT01497938) was a multicenter, randomized, parallel, adaptive study of subjects with type 1 diabetes. The control arm used sensor-augmented pump therapy. The treatment arm used sensor-augmented pump therapy with threshold suspend, which automatically suspends the insulin pump in response to a sensor glucose value at or below a prespecified threshold. To be randomized, subjects had to have demonstrated 2 episodes of nocturnal hypoglycemia, defined as &gt;20 consecutive minutes of sensor glucose values 65 mg/dl starting between 10:00 PM and 8:00 AM in the 2-week run-in phase. The 3-month study phase evaluated safety by comparing changes in glycated hemoglobin (A1C) values and evaluated efficacy by comparing the mean area under the glucose concentration time curves for nocturnal hypoglycemia events in the two groups. Other outcomes included the rate of nocturnal hypoglycemia events and the distribution of sensor glucose values. Data from the ASPIRE In-Home study should provide evidence on the safety of the threshold suspend feature with respect to A1C and its efficacy with respect to severity and duration of nocturnal hypoglycemia when used at home over a 3-month period.

UI  - 23911171
TI  - Importance of manually entering blood glucose readings when wireless-compatible meters are not being used with an insulin pump.
AB  - Because patients who use nonwireless-compatible meters do not manually enter their low and in-range BGM readings into the insulin pump, BGM data downloaded only from pumps may provide an incomplete representation of BGM frequency or results. It is recommended that patients use meters that directly communicate with pumps or perform bolus calculations. Patients should be educated about the importance of manually entering all BGM readings if they do not use a wireless-compatible meter with their insulin pump.

UI  - 23911164
TI  - Performance evaluation of a continuous glucose monitoring system under conditions similar to daily life.
AB  - The Dexcom G4 CGM system showed good overall MARD compared with results reported for other commercially available CGM systems. In the hypoglycemic range, where CGM performance is often reported to be low, the Dexcom G4 CGM system achieved better MARD than that reported for other CGM systems in the hypoglycemic range. In the hyperglycemic range, the MARD was comparable to that reported for other CGM systems, whereas during induced glucose excursions, the MARD was similar or slightly worse than that reported for other CGM systems. Overall PARD was 7.3%, improving markedly with sensor life time.

UI  - 23908125
TI  - Effect of acarbose to delay progression of carotid intima-media thickness in early diabetes.
AB  - Acarbose can delay progression of carotid intima-media thickness in early diabetes defined by an oral glucose tolerance test. Glucose, weight, insulin and lipids contributed to risk of progression but reductions in glycemia were not major determinants of reduced rate of IMT progression. Vascular benefits of acarbose may be independent of its glycemic effects.

UI  - 23907381
TI  - Insulin-mediated suppression of lipolysis in adipose tissue and skeletal muscle of obese type 2 diabetic men and men with normal glucose tolerance.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT01680133.

UI  - 23906374
TI  - Efficacy and safety of empagliflozin, a sodium glucose cotransporter 2 (SGLT2) inhibitor, as add-on to metformin in type 2 diabetes with mild hyperglycaemia.
AB  - Once daily empagliflozin as add-on therapy to metformin was well tolerated except for increased genital infections and resulted in reductions in HbA1c, fasting plasma glucose and body weight in patients with type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled on metformin monotherapy.

UI  - 23905837
TI  - Carbamylation of LDL and its relationship with myeloperoxidase in type 2 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - LDL (low-density lipoprotein) is subjected to pro-atherogenic modifications in the circulation. A novel uraemia-independent mechanism of carbamylation of lipoproteins mediated by MPO (myeloperoxidase) has recently been reported. We have investigated whether carbamylation of LDL was increased in patients with Type 2 diabetes without renal impairment and the role of MPO. cLDL (carbamylated LDL) and MPO were measured by ELISA in a cross-sectional study of 198 patients and 174 non-diabetic controls. The impact of lowering MPO on plasma cLDL was determined by assaying cLDL and MPO in archived samples from a previous randomized open-label parallel group study comparing rosiglitazone (n=20) and sulfonylurea (n=24). Both plasma cLDL (P<0.05) and MPO levels (P<0.01) were higher in patients with Type 2 diabetes than controls in the cross-sectional study. Plasma cLDL correlated with MPO (r=0.42 and P<0.01) in subjects with diabetes, and plasma MPO was an independent determinant of plasma cLDL even after adjusting for age, gender, BMI (body mass index), apoB (apolipoprotein B), urea and HbA1c (glycated haemoglobin). In the randomized trial, rosiglitazone significantly lowered MPO (P<0.01) and cLDL (P<0.05), whereas no changes were observed in the sulfonylurea group despite a similar reduction in HbA1c. The magnitude of reduction in plasma cLDL correlated with changes in MPO, but not with HbA1c in the rosiglitazone group, suggesting that lowering MPO reduced plasma cLDL. Plasma cLDL is increased in patients with Type 2 diabetes even in the absence of renal impairment and carbamylation of LDL in these subjects is mainly mediated by MPO and not by urea.

UI  - 23903772
TI  - Robust association of the LPA locus with low-density lipoprotein cholesterol lowering response to statin treatment in a meta-analysis of 30 467 individuals from both randomized control trials and observational studies and association with coronary artery disease outcome during statin treatment.
AB  - Individuals with the G allele of rs10455872, which represents approximately one in seven patients, have a higher risk of CAD than the majority of the population even after treatment with statins; and therefore represent a vulnerable group requiring an alternative medication in addition to statin treatment.

UI  - 23900468
TI  - Eicosapentaenoic acid improves insulin sensitivity and blood sugar in overweight type 2 diabetes mellitus patients: a double-blind randomised clinical trial.
AB  - The results of our study indicate that EPA supplementation could improve insulin sensitivity. It was able to decrease serum insulin, FPG, HbA1c and HOMA-IR. EPA could have beneficial effects on glycaemic indices in patients with T2DM.

UI  - 23897920
TI  - SMBG out of control: the need for educating patients about control solution.
AB  - It was concluded that BGM users are frequently not using CS to calibrate their monitors. The low availability of CS at pharmacies might contribute to the low demand for this product. It can be concluded that patients who perform SMBG need education from diabetes educators about proper CS calibration. Without the use of CS, BGMs are not being used according to manufacturer's specifications. This misuse could lead to erroneous results and erode the potential benefits of SMBG.

UI  - 23895803
TI  - Rationale, design, and baseline characteristics of the Canagliflozin Cardiovascular Assessment Study (CANVAS)--a randomized placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - Sodium glucose co-transporter 2 inhibition is a novel mode of treatment for type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). The sodium glucose co-transporter 2 inhibitor canagliflozin lowered blood glucose, blood pressure, and body weight, with increased risk of urogenital infections in Phase 2 studies. Effects on macrovascular complications of diabetes remain to be determined. CANVAS is a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial designed to evaluate the effects of canagliflozin on the risk of cardiovascular disease and to assess safety and tolerability in patients with inadequately controlled T2DM and increased cardiovascular risk. The first of 2 planned phases randomized 4,330 individuals to placebo, canagliflozin 100 or 300 mg (1:1:1) with planned follow-up of about 2 years to substantiate potential cardiovascular protection by assessing key biomarkers and to achieve initial safety objectives. By the end of mid-September 2012, a total of 7174 patient-years of follow-up were accrued. Mean baseline age was 62 years, duration of diabetes 13 years; hemoglobin A1c 8.2%, fasting plasma glucose 9.3 mmol/L, and body mass index 32 kg/m(2). Of the participants, 34% are female and 57% had a history of atherosclerotic vascular disease. Participants will be followed up to achieve primary safety and tolerability objectives and to investigate secondary outcomes. The planned second phase will not be undertaken. CANVAS will define the effects of canagliflozin on biomarkers and provide data on cardiovascular safety against established regulatory parameters.

UI  - 23893332
TI  - The effect of aliskiren on urinary cytokine/chemokine responses to clamped hyperglycaemia in type 1 diabetes.
AB  - The increased urinary excretion of inflammatory cytokines/chemokines in response to acute hyperglycaemia is blunted by RAAS blockade in humans with uncomplicated type 1 diabetes mellitus.

UI  - 23891275
TI  - Comparative effects of pioglitazone and metformin on oxidative stress markers in newly diagnosed type 2 diabetes patients: a randomized clinical trial.
AB  - Similar to metformin, three months treatment with Pioglitazone is beneficial in terms of OS alleviation and anti-oxidant capacity restoration.

UI  - 23889588
TI  - Age, renal dysfunction, cardiovascular disease, and antihyperglycemic treatment in type 2 diabetes mellitus: findings from the Renal Insufficiency and Cardiovascular Events Italian Multicenter Study.
AB  - In real-life conditions, use of agents that are not recommended in elderly adults with diabetes mellitus with moderate to severe renal impairment is frequent, but metformin is associated with lower cardiovascular event rates even in these individuals.

UI  - 23886784
TI  - Prevalence and risk factors of lipohypertrophy in insulin-injecting patients with diabetes.
AB  - Correct injection site rotation appears to be the critical factor in preventing LH, which is associated with reduced glucose variability, hypoglycaemia, insulin consumption and costs.

UI  - 23886028
TI  - Glycemic control and the first use of oral antidiabetic agents among patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - Patient initial level of glycemic control was associated with changes in treatment patterns in the 2 years post initiation on an OAD, with patients with moderate or poor control more likely to switch or augment their ITT therapy, compared to individuals with good control.

UI  - 23883408
TI  - Outpatient safety assessment of an in-home predictive low-glucose suspend system with type 1 diabetes subjects at elevated risk of nocturnal hypoglycemia.
AB  - This study demonstrated that the PLGS system in the home setting is safe and feasible. The preliminary efficacy data appear promising with the final algorithm reducing nocturnal hypoglycemia by almost 50%.

UI  - 23880594
TI  - Avoidance of weight gain is important for oral type 2 diabetes treatments in Sweden and Germany: patient preferences.
AB  - Patients in both Sweden and Germany preferred OAMs not associated with weight gain.

UI  - 23871500
TI  - Impact of elective hospital admissions on glycaemic control in adolescents with poorly controlled type 1 diabetes.
AB  - Elective hospital admission for adolescents with poorly controlled type 1 diabetes does not seem to be an effective strategy to improve HbA(1c) over 12 months.

UI  - 23869706
TI  - Race, socioeconomic status, and treatment center are associated with insulin pump therapy in youth in the first year following diagnosis of type 1 diabetes.
AB  - Participants of non-Hispanic white race and higher socioeconomic status were more likely to be placed on pumps during the first year. Further investigations are needed to gain a better understanding of barriers to use of pumps in youth with T1D, especially in disadvantaged and minority families.

UI  - 23869677
TI  - Resource utilisation and quality of life following initiation of insulin detemir in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - Initiating basal insulin therapy resulted in a substantial decrease in HbA1c and improved patients' perceptions of insulin treatment.

UI  - 23866835
TI  - 'Huang Qi Elixir' for proteinuria in patients with diabetic nephropathy: a study protocol for a randomized controlled pilot trial.
AB  - The trial is registered on the Chinese Clinical Trial Registry: ChiCTR-TRC-12002718 (http://www.chictr.org/cn/proj/show.aspx?proj=3820).

UI  - 23865840
TI  - Continuous glucose monitoring pilot in low-income type 1 diabetes patients.
AB  - CGM can be implemented in patients from a low-income public clinic; however, HbA1c reduction was not achieved. Given the underlying lack of baseline self-management knowledge, a longer trial might be necessary to see benefit with CGM in this population.

UI  - 23865344
TI  - Diagnosis of essential hypertension in humans by the determination of plasma renal cortexin using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.
AB  - The determination of PRC as a marker protein by ELISA, a rapid method that can be carried out in any diagnostic laboratory, was shown to be suitable for the diagnosis of EH, even in those subjects who had co-existing DM and were receiving both anti-hypertensive and anti-diabetic medication.

UI  - 23864581
TI  - Effects of metformin dose on cancer risk reduction in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus: a 6-year follow-up study.
AB  - The magnitude of cancer risk reduction and prolonged cancer onset times produced by metformin in patients with type 2 diabetes depended on the dose of metformin, regardless of whether metformin was used alone or combined with other antidiabetic drugs.

UI  - 23863812
TI  - Combination pravastatin and valsartan treatment has additive beneficial effects to simultaneously improve both metabolic and cardiovascular phenotypes beyond that of monotherapy with either drug in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia.
AB  - Statin and angiotensin II type 1 receptor blocker therapy improves endothelial dysfunction using distinct mechanisms. We evaluated simultaneous vascular and metabolic responses to pravastatin and valsartan therapy, alone or in combination, in hypercholesterolemic patients. Forty-eight hypercholesterolemic patients (23 had metabolic syndrome) were given pravastatin 40 mg and placebo, pravastatin 40 mg and valsartan 160 mg, or valsartan 160 mg and placebo daily during each 2-month treatment period in a randomized, single-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover trial with three treatment arms and two washout periods (each 2 months). Brachial artery flow-mediated dilation and C-reactive protein improved to a greater extent with combined therapy compared with either monotherapy. Importantly, we also observed simultaneous improvement in metabolic phenotypes, with all three treatments causing increased plasma adiponectin levels, reduced fasting insulin levels, and increased insulin sensitivity relative to baseline measurements. For the first time in a statin combination trial, pravastatin combined with valsartan therapy increased plasma adiponectin, lowered fasting insulin levels, and improved insulin sensitivity in an additive manner when compared with monotherapy alone. In contrast to other statins, hydrophilic pavastatin may be combined with other drugs to safely reach lipid target levels while simultaneously improving the metabolic and cardiovascular phenotype of patients at high risk.

UI  - 23863805
TI  - Effect of the angiotensin II receptor antagonist olmesartan on morning home blood pressure in hypertension: HONEST study at 16 weeks.
AB  - Morning home blood pressure (BP) levels are more closely associated with cardiovascular risk than clinic BP levels. However, control of morning home BP has been worse than that of clinic BP in clinical practice. We examined the effects of olmesartan-based treatment using data (n=21341) from the first 16 weeks of the Home BP measurement with Olmesartan Naive patients to Establish Standard Target blood pressure (HONEST) study, a prospective observational study for olmesartan-naive patients with essential hypertension. After 16-week olmesartan-based treatment, the clinic and morning home systolic BP (SBP) lowered from 151.616.4 and 153.619.0mmHg to 135.013.7 and 135.513.7mmHg, respectively (P<0.0001). The achievement percentage of target morning home SBP (<135mmHg) in all patients, those with diabetes mellitus (DM), and those with chronic kidney disease (CKD) increased from 13.5, 16.4 and 17.2% to 50.8, 47.9 and 48.8%, respectively, and the proportion of patients with well-controlled hypertension (clinic SBP<140mmHg and morning home SBP<135mmHg) increased from 7.9, 9.2 and 10.2% to 38.9, 34.5 and 36.3%, respectively. After 16-week olmesartan-based treatment, the proportion of patients with masked and white coat hypertension changed from 11.8 to 24.2% and 5.6 to 11.9%. In conclusion, both clinic and morning home BP in all, DM and CKD patients improved with 16-week olmesartan-based treatment in the 'real world', and the results showed a sustained 24-hour BP-lowering effect of olmesartan. Decrease in clinic and home BP resulted in an increased rate of masked and white coat hypertension, and further management is needed in those patients.

UI  - 23861159
TI  - Efficacy of alogliptin, a dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitor, on glucose parameters, the activity of the advanced glycation end product (AGE) - receptor for AGE (RAGE) axis and albuminuria in Japanese type 2 diabetes.
AB  - Alogliptin treatment improved the AGE-RAGE axis and reduced albuminuria in Japanese type 2 diabetes patients.

UI  - 23857320
TI  - Rosiglitazone and outcomes for patients with diabetes mellitus and coronary artery disease in the Bypass Angioplasty Revascularization Investigation 2 Diabetes (BARI 2D) trial.
AB  - URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00006305.

UI  - 23850055
TI  - Efficacy and safety of canagliflozin versus glimepiride in patients with type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled with metformin (CANTATA-SU): 52 week results from a randomised, double-blind, phase 3 non-inferiority trial.
AB  - Janssen Research & Development, LLC.

UI  - 23848558
TI  - Cognitive and functional influences of vildagliptin, a DPP-4 inhibitor, added to ongoing metformin therapy in elderly with type 2 diabetes.
AB  - In this pilot study, addition of vildagliptin to ongoing metformin therapy in elderly with diabetes was accompanied by stable cognitive and functional performance after almost one year of follow-up.

UI  - 23847327
TI  - Autonomic nervous system activity in diabetic and healthy obese female subjects and the effect of distinct weight loss strategies.
AB  - We can conclude that SNS overactivity is more pronounced in obese T2DM subjects when compared with NGT subjects. Reduction of SNS overactivity coincides with weight loss with the time-course of reduction dependent on the type of intervention. Surgery or caloric restriction may transiently induce SNS overactivity but do not prevent a direct restoration of sympathovagal balance.

UI  - 23844756
TI  - Long-term follow-up of oral administration of flavonoids, Centella asiatica and Melilotus, for diabetic cystoid macular edema without macular thickening.
AB  - Oral administration of flavonoids, C. asiatica and Melilotus, in patients with CME without macular thickening provided preservation of retinal sensitivity during 36 months of follow up when compared with untreated patients.

UI  - 23844569
TI  - Impact of the "Diabetes Interactive Diary" telemedicine system on metabolic control, risk of hypoglycemia, and quality of life: a randomized clinical trial in type 1 diabetes.
AB  - DID is no more effective than traditional CHO counting education in reducing HbA1c levels. DID reduces the risk of moderate/severe hypoglycemia and improves quality of life. A better understanding of patients' and healthcare professionals' attitudes associated with an effective care supported by technology is essential to avoid waste of resources.

UI  - 23841267
TI  - [Treatment of diabetic foot by clearing heat, detoxification, activating blood, and dredging collaterals method].
AB  - QTR combined external washing plus external dressing by herbs with removing necrosis and promoting granulation actions could promote the healing of diabetic foot induced ulcers, improve the vascular and nerve functions. Its efficacy was superior to that of the control group.

UI  - 23835684
TI  - Benefits of liraglutide treatment in overweight and obese older individuals with prediabetes.
AB  - The addition of liraglutide to calorie restriction significantly augmented weight loss and improved insulin resistance, systolic blood pressure, glucose, and triglyceride concentration in this population at high risk for development of T2DM and CVD.

UI  - 23835495
TI  - Prevention of contrast-induced nephropathy in diabetic patients with impaired renal function: a randomized, double blind trial of sodium bicarbonate versus sodium chloride-based hydration.
AB  - In diabetic patients with renal function impairment sodium bicarbonate does not confer protection against contrast-induced nephropathy greater than sodium chloride-based hydration. Its specific role in mitigating oxidative stress damage in CIN is also not supported by our data.

UI  - 23835333
TI  - Teplizumab (anti-CD3 mAb) treatment preserves C-peptide responses in patients with new-onset type 1 diabetes in a randomized controlled trial: metabolic and immunologic features at baseline identify a subgroup of responders.
AB  - Trials of immune therapies in new-onset type 1 diabetes (T1D) have shown success, but not all subjects respond, and the duration of response is limited. Our aim was to determine whether two courses of teplizumab, an Fc receptor-nonbinding anti-CD3 monoclonal antibody, reduces the decline in C-peptide levels in patients with T1D 2 years after disease onset. We also set out to identify characteristics of responders. We treated 52 subjects with new-onset T1D with teplizumab for 2 weeks at diagnosis and after 1 year in an open-label, randomized, controlled trial. In the intent to treat analysis of the primary end point, patients treated with teplizumab had a reduced decline in C-peptide at 2 years (mean -0.28 nmol/L [95% CI -0.36 to -0.20]) versus control (mean -0.46 nmol/L [95% CI -0.57 to -0.35]; P = 0.002), a 75% improvement. The most common adverse events were rash, transient upper respiratory infections, headache, and nausea. In a post hoc analysis we characterized clinical responders and found that metabolic (HbA1c and insulin use) and immunologic features distinguished this group from those who did not respond to teplizumab. We conclude that teplizumab treatment preserves insulin production and reduces the use of exogenous insulin in some patients with new-onset T1D. Metabolic and immunologic features at baseline can identify a subgroup with robust responses to immune therapy.

UI  - 23831913
TI  - The effect of coenzyme Q10 supplementation on metabolic status of type 2 diabetic patients.
AB  - In this study, Q10 treatment improved glycemic control, total and LDL cholesterol but these differences were associated with no favourable effects on TG and HDL-C.

UI  - 23831441
TI  - Eight weeks of treatment with long-acting GLP-1 analog taspoglutide improves postprandial insulin secretion and sensitivity in metformin-treated patients with type 2 diabetes.
AB  - Taspoglutide QW significantly improved pancreatic function in patients with T2D treated with metformin.

UI  - 23827078
TI  - [Effect of alpha-lipoic acid combined with transient intensive insulin therapy on adipokine level in patients with type 2 diabetic perineuropathy].
AB  - Transient intensive insulin therapy with LA treatment can regulate adpokine and enhance the anti-inflammatory effect of insulin in type 2 DPN patients.

UI  - 23823078
TI  - Injection frequency and response to bevacizumab monotherapy for diabetic macular oedema (BOLT Report 5).
AB  - Good long-term response is predicted by resolution of macular oedema by 4 months. However, approximately 20% of patients with persistent oedema at 12 months achieved a dry macula and 50% gained more than 15 letters at 24 months with sustained treatment, suggesting that oedema at 4 or 12 months should not be used as a stopping criterion for treatment.

UI  - 23817699
TI  - Salicylate (salsalate) in patients with type 2 diabetes: a randomized trial.
AB  - Salsalate improves glycemia in patients with T2DM and decreases inflammatory mediators. Continued evaluation of mixed cardiorenal signals is warranted.

UI  - 23816723
TI  - Comparative evaluation of fosinopril and herbal drug Dioscorea bulbifera in patients of diabetic nephropathy.
AB  - Worldwide, diabetic nephropathy is one of the leading causes of end-stage renal failure. This hospital-based single-center prospective open-label randomized case-control interventional study was performed to evaluate and compare the native drug Dioscorea bulbifera with fosinopril in the management of diabetic nephropathy. Patients with diabetic nephropathy with proteinuria >500 mg/day or albuminuria >300 mg/ day, S Cr 2.5 mg/dL and hypertension controlled with a single drug were included into the study and were divided into three groups according to the interventional drugs that they were given; group A (n = 46) on fosinopril (5-40 mg/day), group B (n = 45) on Dioscorea bulbifera (500 mg BD) and group C (n = 46) on neither of these drugs. All necessary laboratory investigations needed to assess the effect of both the drugs were carried out. Patients were followed-up for six months. The study included 137 patients (M:F 2.61:1) with an age range of 19-76 years. At the sixth-month follow-up, a significant decrease in the systolic blood pressure was noted in all three groups whereas the diastolic blood pressure decreased significantly only in group B. There was significantly better control of both systolic and diastolic blood pressures in group B than in the other groups. Although fasting blood sugar was poorly controlled in the initial visit in all three groups, there was a significant decrease at the sixth-month follow-up in all three groups. Moreover, the decrease was significantly more pronounced in group B than in the other two groups. Low-density lipoprotein decreased significantly only in group B. Proteinuria, serum transforming growth factor-, interleukin-6 (IL-6) and C-reactive protein decreased in both group A and group B, more so in the latter, but the differences between the groups were not statistically significant. Importantly, proteinuria and serum IL-6 showed an increasing trend in group C. It can be concluded that Dioscorea bulbifera was more effective than fosinopril in controlling blood pressure, glycemia, cholesterolemia and inflammatory state in diabetic nephropathy. Both agents decreased proteinuria. However, creatinine clearance significantly decreased with both the drugs, more so with Dioscera, and thus further evaluation with a larger trial is needed.

UI  - 23815535
TI  - Effects of nebivolol on aortic compliance in patients with diabetes and maximal renin angiotensin system blockade: the EFFORT study.
AB  - The beneficial effects of nebivolol on arterial stiffness and endothelial dysfunction are well documented in untreated hypertensive patients and differ from nonvasodilatory -blockers. This study tests the hypothesis that the addition of nebivolol in predominantly African American patients with type 2 diabetes already receiving maximally tolerated doses of renin-angiotensin system (RAS) blockers will further improve large artery compliance. Patients with type 2 diabetes and hypertension on maximal RAS blockade (n=70) were randomized to nebivolol or metoprolol succinate daily. Doses were titrated until systolic blood pressure (SBP) was <130mmHg. Radial artery applanation tonometry and pulse wave velocity (PWV) analysis were used to derive central aortic pressures and hemodynamic indices at repeated visits at intervals during a 6-month period. Both metoprolol succinate and nebivolol groups demonstrated reductions in brachial SBP (-8.24.3mmHg [P=.01] and -7.83.7 [P=.002], respectively) and aortic DBP (-2.41.8 [P=.039] and -4.02.9mmHg [P=.013], respectively). Aortic SBP decreased in the nebivolol group only (125.38 to 121.68.2, P=.025). There were no between group differences in aortic SBP, DBP, augmentation index, or PWV reduction. A significant increase in hemoglobin A1c was observed only in the metoprolol group. In patients with well-controlled type 2 diabetes and hypertension treated with maximally tolerated RAS blockade, nebivolol does not offer significant reductions in aortic BP over metoprolol succinate but maintains a stable metabolic profile.

UI  - 23812875
TI  - Insulin degludec once-daily in type 2 diabetes: simple or step-wise titration (BEGIN: once simple use).
AB  - IDeg was effective and well tolerated using either the Simple or Step-wise titration algorithm. While selection of an algorithm must be based on individual patient characteristics and goals, the ability to attain good glycemic control using a simplified titration algorithm may enable patient empowerment through self-titration, improved convenience, and reduced costs.

UI  - 23811853
TI  - Pioglitazone improves glucose metabolism and modulates skeletal muscle TIMP-3-TACE dyad in type 2 diabetes mellitus: a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, mechanistic study.
AB  - This study was funded by TAKEDA.

UI  - 23808391
TI  - Lutein administration to pregnant women with gestational diabetes mellitus is associated to a decrease of oxidative stress in newborns.
AB  - Oxidative stress (OS) is defined as an imbalance between pro- and antioxidant factors that can lead to cellular and tissue damage. Under condition of gestational diabetes, OS is exacerbated and can cause vascular dysfunction in the placenta, leading to fetal and perinatal complications. We investigated the oxidative status of diabetic pregnant women and of their babies. A group of those diabetic women received lutein, and another group did not receive anything. In order to verify a possible antioxidant function of lutein, we compared the OS values of the two groups. OS appeared lower in treated gravidas than in untreated ones; however, there was not a statistically significant difference between the two groups. As far as newborns are concerned, there was a significant difference of OS values between babies born to mothers treated with lutein and newborns to mothers untreated at 2h of life. However, at 48h, there was not a significant difference between the two groups. In conclusion, lutein administration during pregnancy significantly reduced neonatal OS at birth. Further studies are necessary to evaluate the effects of combined administration to mother and infants.

UI  - 23808295
TI  - [Intraosseous blocks in the treatment of symmetrical distal diabetic polyneuropathy].
AB  - IOB was found to be highly effective in pain syndrome, affective disorders, and other manifestations of DSDP; moreover, the therapeutic effect persisted within 6 months after treatment.

UI  - 23807528
TI  - Efficacy and safety of adding pioglitazone or sitagliptin to patients with type 2 diabetes insufficiently controlled with metformin and a sulfonylurea.
AB  - Pioglitazone and sitagliptin achieved similar improvements in overall glycemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled with metformin and an SU. However there were some differences in terms of FPG, hs-CRP, lipids, body-weight change, and AEs.

UI  - 23807371
TI  - Exploratory analysis of the effect of intravitreal ranibizumab or triamcinolone on worsening of diabetic retinopathy in a randomized clinical trial.
AB  - For eyes without PDR at baseline, the 3-year cumulative probabilities for retinopathy worsening (P value comparison with sham with prompt laser) were 23% using sham with prompt laser, 18% with ranibizumab with prompt laser (P = .25), 7% with ranibizumab with deferred laser (P = .001), and 37% with triamcinolone with prompt laser (P = .10). For eyes with PDR at baseline, the 3-year cumulative probabilities for retinopathy worsening were 40%, 21% (P = .05), 18% (P = .02), and 12% (P < .001), respectively. CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE Intravitreal ranibizumab appears to be associated with a reduced risk of diabetic retinopathy worsening in eyes with or without PDR. Intravitreal triamcinolone also appears to be associated with a reduced risk of PDR worsening. These findings suggest that use of these drugs to prevent worsening of diabetic retinopathy may be feasible. Given the exploratory nature of these analyses, the risk of endophthalmitis following intravitreal injections, and the fact that intravitreal triamcinolone can cause cataract or glaucoma, use of these treatments to reduce the rates of worsening of retinopathy, with or without PDR, does not seem warranted at this time.

UI  - 23802840
TI  - Long-term 4-year safety of saxagliptin in drug-naive and metformin-treated patients with Type 2 diabetes.
AB  - Saxagliptin monotherapy or add-on to metformin is generally safe and well tolerated, with no increased risk of hypoglycaemia, for up to 4 years.

UI  - 23802496
TI  - Relationship of glucose values to sliding scale insulin (correctional insulin) dose delivery and meal time in acute care patients with diabetes mellitus.
AB  - Findings of this study suggest the traditional sliding scale insulin (SSI) method does not improve target glucose values among adult medical inpatients. Timing of blood glucose (BC) measurement does affect the required SSI dose. BC measurement and insulin dose administration should be accomplished immediately prior to mealtime.

UI  - 23802207
TI  - The Biosulin equivalence in standard therapy (BEST) study - a multicentre, open-label, non-randomised, interventional, observational study in subjects using Biosulin 30/70 for the treatment of insulin-dependent type 1 and type 2 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - Biosulin 30/70 achieved at least equivalent glycaemic control to existing human premix insulins, with no reported new or severe adverse events. Increased use of biosimilar insulins has the potential for significant cost savings.

UI  - 23801816
TI  - Cilostazol attenuates spontaneous microaggregation of platelets in type 2 diabetic patients with insufficient platelet response to aspirin.
AB  - 

UI  - 23800573
TI  - Treatment of depression in type 2 diabetic patients: effects on depressive symptoms, quality of life and metabolic control.
AB  - Treating depressive symptoms with medical therapy in T2DM is associated with improvements in QoL and depression, but with no improvement in metabolic control or weight.

UI  - 23800082
TI  - Glycemic control among patients in China with type 2 diabetes mellitus receiving oral drugs or injectables.
AB  - Less than one third of the patients had achieved the goal of HbA1c <7.0%. Glycemic control decreased and insulin use increased with the duration of diabetes.

UI  - 23797470
TI  - Moxifloxacin in complicated skin and skin structure infections (cSSSIs): A prospective, international, non-interventional, observational study.
AB  - This study, conducted in a 'real-world' setting, confirms the effectiveness and safety of moxifloxacin in the treatment of a wide spectrum of cSSSIs seen in routine clinical practice.

UI  - 23797426
TI  - The effect of doubling the dose of acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) on platelet function parameters in patients with type 2 diabetes and platelet hyperreactivity during treatment with 75 mg of ASA: a subanalysis of the AVOCADO study.
AB  - Doubling the dose of ASA improved platelet reactivity in patients with type 2 diabetes and HPR.

UI  - 23795985
TI  - A prospective randomized trial of intravitreal bevacizumab versus ranibizumab for the management of diabetic macular edema.
AB  - IV bevacizumab and IV ranibizumab are associated with similar effects on central subfield thickness in patients with DME through 1 year of follow-up. IV ranibizumab is associated with greater improvement in BCVA at some study visits, and the mean number of injections is higher in the IV bevacizumab group.

UI  - 23790553
TI  - Insulin pen needles: effects of extra-thin wall needle technology on preference, confidence, and other patient ratings.
AB  - XTW PNs were preferred overall, rated as requiring less time and less thumb force to inject, and providing greater confidence in completing a full dose compared with usual PNs in this group of patients with type 1 or type 2 DM. ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT01852136.

UI  - 23789889
TI  - Threshold-based insulin-pump interruption for reduction of hypoglycemia.
AB  - This study showed that over a 3-month period the use of sensor-augmented insulin-pump therapy with the threshold-suspend feature reduced nocturnal hypoglycemia, without increasing glycated hemoglobin values. (Funded by Medtronic MiniMed; ASPIRE ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT01497938.).

UI  - 23787544
TI  - Effects of paricalcitol on calcium and phosphate metabolism and markers of bone health in patients with diabetic nephropathy: results of the VITAL study.
AB  - Trial is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, number NCT00421733.

UI  - 23782624
TI  - Factors associated with treatment success in veterans with diabetes and hyperlipidemia: a retrospective study.
AB  - Preexisting CAD, CVA, or CHF all increased the odds of patients achieving a goal LDL <100 mg/dL while declining statin therapy and preexisting neuropathy reduced the odds.

UI  - 23782594
TI  - Efficacy and safety of canagliflozin in Japanese patients with type 2 diabetes: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, 12-week study.
AB  - Treatment with canagliflozin for 12weeks significantly improved glycaemic control and reduced body weight in Japanese patients with T2DM. Canagliflozin was well tolerated.

UI  - 23782587
TI  - Pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interaction of vildagliptin and voglibose in Japanese patients with Type 2 diabetes.
AB  - Plasma vildagliptin levels were decreased when voglibose was co-administered, although DPP- 4 inhibition remained unchanged. Co-administration led to significantly better pharmacodynamic response compared with each treatment alone, including higher active GLP-1 and lower glucose levels. The results indicate that this coadministration may be beneficial in the clinical situation. Vildagliptin and voglibose treatments, alone or when co-administered, were well tolerated in Japanese patients with Type 2 diabetes.

UI  - 23782548
TI  - A propensity score matched comparison of different insulin regimens 1 year after beginning insulin in people with type 2 diabetes.
AB  - Comparing insulin regimens between individuals matched by propensity scores indicated differences in hypoglycaemia and body weight change, despite similar HbA1c reductions. Our findings are consistent with those from randomized controlled trials.

UI  - 23782529
TI  - Differential effects of vildagliptin and glimepiride on glucose fluctuations in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus assessed using continuous glucose monitoring.
AB  - Vildagliptin treatment was associated with less fluctuation of glucose levels than glimepiride treatment as assessed by 24-h CGM device, suggesting vildagliptin may have the potential to offer long-term beneficial effects for patients with T2DM in preventing the development of complications of diabetes.

UI  - 23782502
TI  - Sitagliptin and pioglitazone provide complementary effects on postprandial glucose and pancreatic islet cell function.
AB  - Sitagliptin and pioglitazone enhanced -cell function (increasing postmeal (s)), and sitagliptin improved -cell function (decreasing postmeal glucagon) after 12weeks in patients with type 2 diabetes. Through these complementary mechanisms of action, the combination of sitagliptin and pioglitazone reduced postmeal glucose more than either treatment alone.

UI  - 23780837
TI  - The association of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol with cancer incidence in type II diabetes: a case of reverse causality?
AB  - HDL-C is not a risk factor for cancer in type II diabetes.

UI  - 23778883
TI  - Nutritional education and carbohydrate counting in children with type 1 diabetes treated with continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion: the effects on dietary habits, body composition and glycometabolic control.
AB  - Carbohydrate counting (CHC) in combination with nutritional education has been used to optimize the insulin dose in patients with type 1 diabetes (T1D). The aim of this study was to test the impact of CHC and nutritional education on changes in dietary habits, body composition and body fat distribution in children with T1D treated with insulin pumps (CSII). Twenty-five children with T1D and CSII were recruited and valuated at baseline and after 18 months of follow-up. They were trained in CHC and following standard nutrition education program (based on American Diabetes Association and International Society of Pediatric and Adolescent Diabetes guidelines); clinical, biochemical and nutritional variables were measured. In the total population, body composition, body fat distribution and biochemical variables did not change, at follow-up; HbA1c was significantly reduced (8.50  0.77 vs 7.92  0.74 %; p < 0.001) without changing insulin/kg/day requirement. In the sub-group of patients with a significant HbA1c reduction (HbA1c  0.5 %, n = 12), the carbohydrate (CHO) intake was significantly higher at follow-up (53.0  4.0 vs 57.6  2.5 %; p < 0.01); on the contrary, fat (31.3  3.6 vs 28.5  1.6 %; p < 0.05) and protein intake (15.4  1.8 vs 13.3  1.6 %; p < 0.01) significantly decreased. Patients without a significant HbA1c reduction did not show any difference. CHC, in combination with nutritional education, does not affect dietary habits, body composition and body fat distribution in children with T1D treated with CSII. Moreover, the sub-group of subjects showing a significant improvement in glycometabolic control reported an increase in CHO intake and a reduction in fat and protein intake.

UI  - 23777507
TI  - Pioglitazone decreases asymmetric dimethylarginine levels in patients with impaired glucose tolerance or type 2 diabetes.
AB  - This study demonstrated that pioglitazone decreased serum ADMA levels in a glucose-lowering independent manner. Elevation of fibronectin by pioglitazone may contribute to the reduction of serum levels of ADMA in IGT or T2DM subjects, thus playing a protective role against cardiovascular disease.

UI  - 23777402
TI  - A new-generation continuous glucose monitoring system: improved accuracy and reliability compared with a previous-generation system.
AB  - The performance of DG4P was significantly improved compared with that of DSP, which may increase routine clinical use of CGM and improve patient outcomes.

UI  - 23774306
TI  - Long-term effects of alogliptin benzoate in hemodialysis patients with diabetes: a 2-year study.
AB  - Long-term (2-year) effects of alogliptin benzoate monotherapy suggest its efficacy as a new treatment strategy in diabetic HD patients.

UI  - 23773299
TI  - Diabetes, metformin use, and colorectal cancer survival in postmenopausal women.
AB  - In postmenopausal women with CRC and DM, no statistically significant difference was seen in CRC specific survival in those who used metformin compared to non-users. Analyses in larger populations of colorectal cancer patients are warranted.

UI  - 23771784
TI  - Evaluation of an algorithm for intensive subcutaneous insulin therapy in noncritically ill hospitalised patients with hyperglycaemia in a randomised controlled trial.
AB  - Incorporation of insulin resistance factors into a subcutaneous insulin algorithm achieved early and sustained glycaemic control in noncritically ill patients admitted to general medical wards without apparent safety concerns. The overall clinical benefit of this strategy remains to be determined.

UI  - 23767865
TI  - Salacia reticulata improves serum lipid profiles and glycemic control in patients with prediabetes and mild to moderate hyperlipidemia: a double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized trial.
AB  - The present randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study evaluated the efficacy and safety of Salacia reticulata leaves and root bark extracts in 29 patients with prediabetes and mild to moderate hyperlipidemia. Patients received either Salacia extracts (500mg/day) or placebo along with therapeutic lifestyle changes for a period of 6 weeks. Efficacy was evaluated in terms of change in lipid profile and glycemic levels. The safety and tolerability was evaluated by a physical examination and clinical laboratory evaluations. Improvements in lipid profiles and glycemic levels were observed in Salacia extract-treated groups when compared to placebo at week 6. A statistical significant reduction was observed in low-density lipoprotein cholesterol and fasting blood sugar (FBS) levels at week 3 and 6 when treated with root bark extract. The leaves extract-treated group showed statistically significant reduction in FBS levels at week 6 only. No adverse events occurred and all safety parameters were within normal ranges during the study. This study revealed that treatment with S. reticulata was safe and well-tolerated and may be beneficial in the management of prediabetes and mild to moderate hyperlipidemia.

UI  - 23764734
TI  - Impaired cardiometabolic responses to glucagon-like peptide 1 in obesity and type 2 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - Glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) has insulin-like effects on myocardial glucose uptake which may contribute to its beneficial effects in the setting of myocardial ischemia. Whether these effects are different in the setting of obesity or type 2 diabetes (T2DM) requires investigation. We examined the cardiometabolic actions of GLP-1 (7-36) in lean and obese/T2DM humans, and in lean and obese Ossabaw swine. GLP-1 significantly augmented myocardial glucose uptake under resting conditions in lean humans, but this effect was impaired in T2DM. This observation was confirmed and extended in swine, where GLP-1 effects to augment myocardial glucose uptake during exercise were seen in lean but not in obese swine. GLP-1 did not increase myocardial oxygen consumption or blood flow in humans or in swine. Impaired myocardial responsiveness to GLP-1 in obesity was not associated with any apparent alterations in myocardial or coronary GLP1-R expression. No evidence for GLP-1-mediated activation of cAMP/PKA or AMPK signaling in lean or obese hearts was observed. GLP-1 treatment augmented p38-MAPK activity in lean, but not obese cardiac tissue. Taken together, these data provide novel evidence indicating that the cardiometabolic effects of GLP-1 are attenuated in obesity and T2DM, via mechanisms that may involve impaired p38-MAPK signaling.

UI  - 23760288
TI  - Long-term hemodynamic and molecular effects persist after discontinued renin-angiotensin system blockade in patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - Animal studies suggest temporary renin-angiotensin system (RAS) blockade enhances long-term vascular protective effects; however, this is not established in humans. Here we evaluated the long-term effects of prior RAS blockade on hemodynamic function, urinary measures of inflammation, and tissue antioxidant mRNA expression in patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM) who participated in the 5-year Renin Angiotensin System Study (RASS). At 4 years after completing the RASS and discontinuing study medication, renal hemodynamic responses to clamped hyperglycemia were significantly greater in 18 patients in the RAS blockade group compared to 9 patients of the placebo-treated group. Individuals who had received RAS blockade also exhibited higher flow-mediated vasodilatation, reduced urinary cytokine excretion in response to hyperglycemia, and increased skin mRNA expression of superoxide dismutase-1 and catalase. Thus, patients with uncomplicated T1DM who received prior RAS blockade for 5 years maintain long-term effects on renal hemodynamic and systemic vascular function, inflammatory pathways in the kidney, and antioxidant enzyme expression in skin 4 years after discontinuation of therapy. Our findings suggest that sustained long-term protective effects of finite RAS inhibition requires further study.

UI  - 23759416
TI  - No effect of periodic continuous glucose monitoring on hemoglobin A1c in poorly regulated type 1 patients.
AB  - 

UI  - 23759393
TI  - Development and feasibility of a text messaging and interactive voice response intervention for low-income, diverse adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - Low-income, racial/ethnic minorities are often nonadherent to diabetes medications, have uncontrolled glycemia, and have high rates of diabetes-related morbidity. Cell phones provide a viable modality to support medication adherence, but few cell phone-based interventions have been designed for low-income persons, a population with more feature phone penetration than smartphone penetration. In an effort to reach the broadest range of patients, we leveraged the voice and text messaging capabilities shared by all cell phones to design the MEssaging for Diabetes intervention. We specifically advanced and adapted an existing tailored text messaging system to include interactive voice response functionality and support the medication adherence barriers of low-income, diverse adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus. We report on the design process and feasibility testing results (i.e., technical use patterns and subjective user experiences) from patients from the target population who used the intervention in one of three user-centered design iterations. The types of challenges encountered in design were related to providing text message content with valued information and support that engages patients. The design process also highlighted the value of obtaining mixed methods data to provide insight into legitimate versus illegitimate missing data, patterns of use, and subjective user experiences. The iterative testing process and results outlined here provide a potential template for other teams seeking to design technology-based self-care support solutions for comparable patient populations.

UI  - 23758078
TI  - Use of telemedicine to improve glycemic management in a skilled nursing facility: a pilot study.
AB  - The objective of this study was to evaluate the feasibility of using telemedicine to improve glycemic control (reduce episodes of hypoglycemia and severe hyperglycemia) for residents with diabetes in a skilled nursing facility. This randomized pilot study enrolled residents with diabetes (n=23; mean age, 83 years; 91% insulin-treated) and compared usual care (control; n=11) with usual care plus weekly/biweekly teleconsultations with an endocrinologist (n=12) for up to 6 months. A nurse and dietitian from the skilled nursing facility were at all televisits. Residents who were able and willing attended the televisits. Family members were also invited and occasionally were present. The endocrinologist reviewed glucose levels from point-of-care glucose meter downloads, dietary intake, medications, and medical status and recommended changes in glycemic therapy as needed. Measurements included glucose levels from point-of-care glucose meter downloads, hemoglobin A1c (A1c) levels, and a nurse satisfaction survey. Results showed that 7 of 10 insulin-treated intervention subjects had basal doses reduced (18-69%) compared with 2 of 11 control subjects (reduced 10% and 25%, respectively). There was a decrease in percentage of intervention participants with episodes of hypoglycemia (<80mg/dL) over the previous month from baseline (42%) to end of study (22%) versus a rise in the control group (from 36% to 45%) and less hyperglycemia (>400mg/dL) (intervention, from 33% to 22%; control, from 22% to 55%). There were no end-of-study A1c values >8.0% in the intervention group versus 44% in controls. Nursing staff at the skilled nursing facility expressed high satisfaction. Results suggest that telemedicine diabetes consultations to skilled nursing facilities can improve glycemic management.

UI  - 23757614
TI  - Does short-term vitamin C reduce cardiovascular risk in type 2 diabetes?
AB  - Our study suggests that if vitamin C does have anti-atherosclerotic effects in diabetes, it does not exert them through the traditional pathways identifiable by established surrogate markers of cardiovascular risk.

UI  - 23757427
TI  - Reduced hypoglycemia and increased time in target using closed-loop insulin delivery during nights with or without antecedent afternoon exercise in type 1 diabetes.
AB  - CL insulin delivery provides an effective means to reduce the risk of NH while increasing the percentage of time spent in target range, regardless of activity level in the mid-afternoon. These data suggest that CL control could be of benefit to patients with type 1 diabetes even if it is limited to the overnight period.

UI  - 23757426
TI  - Impact of glycemic control strategies on the progression of diabetic peripheral neuropathy in the Bypass Angioplasty Revascularization Investigation 2 Diabetes (BARI 2D) Cohort.
AB  - Among patients with type 2 diabetes followed for up to 4 years during BARI 2D, a glycemic control therapy with IS significantly reduced the incidence of DPN compared with IP therapy and may add further benefit for men.

UI  - 23754673
TI  - Independent glucose and weight-reducing effects of Liraglutide in a real-world population of type 2 diabetic outpatients.
AB  - The GLP-1 receptor agonist Liraglutide is effective in reducing HbA1c in type 2 diabetic (T2D) patients. In addition, treatment with Liraglutide is associated with significant weight loss. In this study, we analyzed the inter-relationships between glycemic and weight effects of Liraglutide treatment in a population of type 2 diabetic outpatients. T2D patients initiating Liraglutide therapy since September 2010 to July 2012 at 3 outpatient clinics were enrolled and followed-up. We collected baseline information about anthropometric data, cardiovascular risk factors, diabetes duration, prevalence of complications and history of anti-diabetic medications. We collected HbA1c and body weight at baseline and every 4 months. A total of 166 patients were included, who were on average 56.6  8.9 (mean  SD) years old and had a baseline HbA1c of 8.7  1.3 % and BMI 36.3  6.4 kg/m(2). Mean follow-up was 9.4  4.2 months (range 4-16). Patients lost on average 1.5  1.3 % HbA1c and 4.0  5.0 kg body weight. Most patients (73.5 %) improved HbA1c and loosed weight. Significant independent determinants of HbA1c drop were baseline HbA1c (r = 0.673; p < 0.001) and previous insulin therapy (r = -0.251; p < 0.001). The only independent determinant of weight loss was baseline BMI (r = 0.429; p < 0.001). Drop in HbA1c was unrelated to baseline BMI or weight loss. Weight loss was unrelated to baseline HbA1c or drop in HbA1c. Glycemic improvement and weight reduction obtained with Liraglutide treatment in T2D patients in a real-world setting are independent and possibly mediated by different mechanisms.

UI  - 23750422
TI  - [Clinical efficacy of special effect san xiao decoction on type 2 diabetes mellitus].
AB  - The clinical efficacy of the special effect San Xiao decoction on type 2 diabetes mellitus is significant, it has the role of alleviating inflammatory response for diabetes and it also has less adverse reactions, which is worth to be applied in clinical.

UI  - 23748515
TI  - Saxagliptin efficacy and safety in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and cardiovascular disease history or cardiovascular risk factors: results of a pooled analysis of phase 3 clinical trials.
AB  - Saxagliptin improved glycemic measures, resulted in low rates of confirmed hypoglycemia, and was well tolerated in patients with or without CVD and CV risk factors.

UI  - 23748514
TI  - Pramlintide improved measures of glycemic control and body weight in patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus undergoing continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion therapy.
AB  - www.ClinicalTrials.gov identifiers: NCT00042458, NCT00108004.

UI  - 23748507
TI  - Efficacy and tolerability of exenatide once weekly versus sitagliptin in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus: a retrospective analysis of pooled clinical trial data.
AB  - www.ClinicalTrials.gov identifiers: NCT00637273, NCT00676338.

UI  - 23748506
TI  - Efficacy, safety, and tolerability of exenatide once weekly in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus: an integrated analysis of the DURATION trials.
AB  - www.ClinicalTrials.gov identifiers: NCT00308139, NCT00637273, NCT00641056, NCT00676338, NCT00877890, NCT01029886.

UI  - 23747089
TI  - Evaluation of a treatment and teaching refresher programme for the optimization of intensified insulin therapy in type 1 diabetes.
AB  - This DTTP is effective for the optimization of intensified insulin therapy.

UI  - 23746555
TI  - One-year sustained glycemic control and weight reduction in type 2 diabetes after addition of liraglutide to metformin followed by insulin detemir according to HbA1c target.
AB  - Supplementing metformin+liraglutide with detemir for 52 weeks improved glycemic control with sustained weight loss and low hypoglycemia rate.

UI  - 23744726
TI  - Variation in inflammatory markers and glycemic parameters after 12months of exenatide plus metformin treatment compared with metformin alone: a randomized placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - The combination of exenatide plus metformin was more effective than metformin alone in improving glycemic control, -cell function, and inflammatory parameters.

UI  - 23740194
TI  - Effects of triple antioxidant therapy on measures of cardiovascular autonomic neuropathy and on myocardial blood flow in type 1 diabetes: a randomised controlled trial.
AB  - In this cohort of type 1 diabetes patients with mild-to-moderate CAN, a combination antioxidant treatment regimen did not prevent progression of CAN, had no beneficial effects on myocardial perfusion or DPN, and may have been detrimental. However, a larger study is necessary to assess the underlying causes of these findings.

UI  - 23738910
TI  - Evaluation of insulin initiation on resource utilization and direct costs of treatment over 12 months in patients with type 2 diabetes in Europe: results from INSTIGATE and TREAT observational studies.
AB  - Contributors to total cost differed between countries, potentially reflecting local clinical practice patterns and insulin regimens. In each country, mean direct total costs of T2DM care increased during the first 6 months after insulin initiation and decreased thereafter.

UI  - 23738508
TI  - The key role of Shenyan Kangfu tablets, a Chinese patent medicine for diabetic nephropathy: study protocol for a randomized, double-blind and placebo-controlled clinical trial.
AB  - This study will be the first placebo-controlled RCT to assess whether SYKFT plus irbesartan will have beneficial effects on enhancing overall response rate (ORR), changing DN staging, improving clinical symptoms, and reducing the frequency of AEs for DN patients with qi-yin deficiency syndrome. The results of this trial will help to provide evidence-based recommendations for clinicians.

UI  - 23736733
TI  - Roux-en-Y gastric bypass vs intensive medical management for the control of type 2 diabetes, hypertension, and hyperlipidemia: the Diabetes Surgery Study randomized clinical trial.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00641251.

UI  - 23735727
TI  - Characterization of renal glucose reabsorption in response to dapagliflozin in healthy subjects and subjects with type 2 diabetes.
AB  - The SGLT2 inhibitor dapagliflozin improves glycemic control in diabetic patients by reducing the TmG and threshold at which glucose is excreted in the urine.

UI  - 23735724
TI  - Intensive structured self-monitoring of blood glucose and glycemic control in noninsulin-treated type 2 diabetes: the PRISMA randomized trial.
AB  - Use of structured SMBG improves glycemic control and provides guidance in prescribing diabetes medications in patients with relatively well-controlled noninsulin-treated type 2 diabetes.

UI  - 23735723
TI  - Favorable effects of insulin sensitizers pertinent to peripheral arterial disease in type 2 diabetes: results from the Bypass Angioplasty Revascularization Investigation 2 Diabetes (BARI 2D) trial.
AB  - In participants with type 2 diabetes who are free from PAD, a glycemic control strategy of insulin sensitization may be the preferred therapeutic strategy to reduce the incidence of PAD and subsequent outcomes.

UI  - 23735317
TI  - Metabolic effects of aloe vera gel complex in obese prediabetes and early non-treated diabetic patients: randomized controlled trial.
AB  - In obese individuals with prediabetes or early untreated DM, Aloe QDM complex reduced body weight, BFM, and insulin resistance.

UI  - 23733529
TI  - Duloxetine use in chronic painful conditions--individual patient data responder analysis.
AB  - Baseline-observation-carried-forward (true response), which combines the success of high levels of pain relief with the failure to experience pain relief on withdrawal of the drug is conservative and probably reflective of clinical practice experience. The distribution of effect was not normal; few patients had the average response and averages are not an appropriate descriptor for these data.

UI  - 23732189
TI  - Duloxetine and pregabalin: high-dose monotherapy or their combination? The "COMBO-DN study"--a multinational, randomized, double-blind, parallel-group study in patients with diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain.
AB  - This multicentre, double-blind, parallel-group study in diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain addressed whether, in patients not responding to standard doses of duloxetine or pregabalin, combining both medications is superior to increasing each drug to its maximum recommended dose. For initial 8-week therapy, either 60 mg/day duloxetine (groups 1, 2) or 300 mg/day pregabalin (groups 3, 4) was given. Thereafter, in the 8-week combination/high-dose therapy period, only nonresponders received 120 mg/day duloxetine (group 1), a combination of 60 mg/day duloxetine and 300 mg/day pregabalin (groups 2, 3), or 600 mg/day pregabalin (group 4). Primary outcome (Brief Pain Inventory Modified Short Form [BPI-MSF] 24-hour average pain change after combination/high-dose therapy) was analyzed comparing combination (groups 2, 3 pooled) with high-dose monotherapy (groups 1, 4 pooled). Secondary end points included response rates, BPI-MSF severity items, and comparison of duloxetine and pregabalin in BPI-MSF average pain. Eight hundred four patients were evaluated for initial therapy and 339 for combination/high-dose therapy. There were no significant differences between combination and high-dose monotherapy regarding BPI-MSF average pain (mean change: combination: -2.35; high-dose monotherapy: -2.16; P = 0.370) and most secondary end points, which, however, consistently favoured combination therapy. Fifty-percent response rates were 52.1% for combination and 39.3% for high-dose monotherapy (P = 0.068). In exploratory analyses of the initial 8-week therapy uncorrected for multiple comparisons, 60 mg/day duloxetine was found superior to 300 mg/day pregabalin (P < 0.001). Both drugs and their combination were well tolerated. Although not significantly superior to high-dose monotherapy, combination therapy was considered to be effective, safe, and well tolerated.

UI  - 23731805
TI  - [Estimated glucose disposal rate in patients under 18 years of age with type 1 diabetes mellitus and overweight or obesity].
AB  - Values of eGDR values were lower in obese children with T1DM older than 11 years, and this may therefore be considered a marker of insulin resistance. Insulin dose was higher in diabetic patients with overweight or obesity, specially in IU/m2/day. Obese children with T1DM had a lipoprotein profile of cardiovascular risk.

UI  - 23730996
TI  - A randomized trial comparing the rate of hypoglycemia--assessed using continuous glucose monitoring--in 125 preschool children with type 1 diabetes treated with insulin glargine or NPH insulin (the PRESCHOOL study).
AB  - While glargine noninferiority was not achieved, in young children with T1DM, there was a slight difference in hypoglycemia outcomes and glycemic control between glargine and NPH. Once-daily glargine may therefore be a feasible alternative basal insulin in young populations, in whom administering injections can be problematic.

UI  - 23730480
TI  - Effects of Beraprost sodium on subjective symptoms in diabetic patients with peripheral arterial disease.
AB  - Beraprost is effective as a treatment for improving various subjective symptoms in the lower extremities, such as burning, coldness, edema, exertional pain, stabbing, and paresthesias, in diabetic patients with peripheral arterial disease.

UI  - 23729551
TI  - Effect of insulin therapy on IGF-1 level in children with new-onset type 1 diabetes mellitus: a comparison between DKA and non-DKA.
AB  - Serum IGF-1 level is reduced in new-onset T1DM children. A significant increase in serum IGF-1 level can occur with insulin therapy in both DKA and non-DKA children.

UI  - 23728830
TI  - Effects of ezetimibe/simvastatin 10/20 mg vs. atorvastatin 20 mg on apolipoprotein B/apolipoprotein A1 in Korean patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus: results of a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Ezetimibe/simvastatin 10/20 mg is comparable to atorvastatin 20 mg for the management of dyslipidemia, and may have more favorable effects on apolipoprotein profiles than atorvastatin 20 mg in Korean patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus.

UI  - 23727759
TI  - Anti-hyperglycemic effect of Vaccinium arctostaphylos in type 2 diabetic patients: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Whortleberry may safely improve glycemic control in type 2 diabetic patients.

UI  - 23727264
TI  - Efficacy and safety of the farnesoid X receptor agonist obeticholic acid in patients with type 2 diabetes and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.
AB  - In this phase 2 trial, administration of 25 or 50 mg OCA for 6 weeks was well tolerated, increased insulin sensitivity, and reduced markers of liver inflammation and fibrosis in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease. Longer and larger studies are warranted. ClinicalTrials.gov, Number: NCT00501592.

UI  - 23725735
TI  - Two-year safety and efficacy of ranibizumab 0.5 mg in diabetic macular edema: interim analysis of the RESTORE extension study.
AB  - Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.

UI  - 23725524
TI  - The effect of green tea and sour tea on blood pressure of patients with type 2 diabetes: a randomized clinical trial.
AB  - The present study revealed that mildly hypertensive type 2 diabetic individuals who drink three glasses of green or sour tea daily for 4 weeks show significant decreased systolic and diastolic blood pressures.

UI  - 23721292
TI  - Determinants of self-monitoring of blood glucose in patients with Type 1 diabetes: a multi-centre study in Brazil.
AB  - The majority of our patients (88.5%) performed three or more self-monitoring tests daily, with more frequent testing reported by females, younger patients, those on intensive insulin regimens and of higher socio-economic status. No additional benefit was found in patients who performed self-monitoring more than four times daily. The diabetes care team must improve patients' education regarding self-monitoring of blood glucose and its benefits.

UI  - 23718748
TI  - Glyburide as treatment option for gestational diabetes mellitus.
AB  - Glyburide was found to be as efficacious as insulin in achieving euglycemia in the treatment of gestational diabetic women who require treatment beyond diet control.

UI  - 23715873
TI  - High-dose thiamine supplementation improves glucose tolerance in hyperglycemic individuals: a randomized, double-blind cross-over trial.
AB  - Supplementation with high-dose thiamine may prevent deterioration in fasting glucose and insulin, andimprove glucose tolerance in patients with hyperglycemia. High-dose thiamine supplementation may prevent or slow the progression of hyperglycemia toward diabetes mellitus in individuals with impaired glucose regulation.

UI  - 23715753
TI  - Low-volume insulin degludec 200 units/ml once daily improves glycemic control similarly to insulin glargine with a low risk of hypoglycemia in insulin-naive patients with type 2 diabetes: a 26-week, randomized, controlled, multinational, treat-to-target trial: the BEGIN LOW VOLUME trial.
AB  - In this treat-to-target trial in insulin-nave patients with T2DM, IDeg 200 units/mL improved glycemic control similarly to IGlar with a low risk of hypoglycemia.

UI  - 23713294
TI  - [Effect of wuhuang tangkangling on cytokine in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus].
AB  - Wuhuang Tangkangling could significantly decrease the level of TNF-alpha, IL-6, hs-CRP, FBG and PBG in patients with T2DM, and could decrease blood glucose, anti inflammatory, and improve insulin resistance. According to testing these cytokines, a new criteria for evaluating the progress of T2DM and the treatment may be approached.

UI  - 23710902
TI  - Insulin degludec improves glycaemic control with lower nocturnal hypoglycaemia risk than insulin glargine in basal-bolus treatment with mealtime insulin aspart in Type1 diabetes (BEGIN() Basal-Bolus Type1): 2-year results of a randomized clinical trial.
AB  - Long-term basal therapy using insulin degludec in Type1 diabetes required lower doses and was associated with a 25% lower risk for nocturnal hypoglycaemia than insulin glargine.

UI  - 23710811
TI  - [The impact of telmisartan on angiotensin converting enzyme 2 mRNA expression in monocyte-derived macrophages of diabetic hypertensive patients].
AB  - The role of telmisartan in decreasing blood pressure and it's advantage to the metabolism of glucose are partly related with the up-regulation of ACE2 mRNA.

UI  - 23710808
TI  - [The safety and effectiveness of once daily detemir in patients with type 2 diabetes previously failing oral agents: the Chinese cohort from SOLVE(TM) observational study].
AB  - Insulin detemir administered once daily as add-on therapy in patients with T2DM failing OAD regimen significantly reduces the risk of major hypoglycemia, improves glycemic control, increases the percentage of patients achieving treatment target with neutral effect on body weight.

UI  - 23706949
TI  - Long-term outcomes of ranibizumab therapy for diabetic macular edema: the 36-month results from two phase III trials: RISE and RIDE.
AB  - Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.

UI  - 23706947
TI  - Dexamethasone intravitreal implant in combination with laser photocoagulation for the treatment of diffuse diabetic macular edema.
AB  - Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.

UI  - 23706759
TI  - Individualised treatment targets for elderly patients with type 2 diabetes using vildagliptin add-on or lone therapy (INTERVAL): a 24 week, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study.
AB  - Novartis Pharma AG.

UI  - 23704830
TI  - Effect of Danzhijiangtang capsule on monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 mRNA expression in newly diagnosed diabetes subclinical vascular lesions.
AB  - DJCs are efficacious in supplementing qi, nourishing yin and invigorating blood circulation, and upregulate MCP-1 mRNA expression in patients with T2DM subclinical vascular lesions.

UI  - 23704676
TI  - Safety and tolerability of the treatment of youth-onset type 2 diabetes: the TODAY experience.
AB  - The TODAY study represents extensive experience managing type 2 diabetes in youth and found that the three treatment approaches were generally safe and well tolerated. Adding rosiglitazone to metformin may reduce GI side effects and hepatotoxicity.

UI  - 23704674
TI  - Effects of metformin, metformin plus rosiglitazone, and metformin plus lifestyle on insulin sensitivity and -cell function in TODAY.
AB  - The beneficial change in insulin sensitivity and the resultant lower burden on -cell function achieved in the first 6 months with metformin plus rosiglitazone appear to be responsible for its superior glycemic durability over metformin alone and metformin plus lifestyle. However, initial -cell reserve and HbA1c at randomization are independent predictors of glycemic durability. Therefore, efforts to preserve -cell function before significant loss occurs and to reduce HbA1c may be beneficial in the treatment of youth with type 2 diabetes.

UI  - 23704673
TI  - Treatment effects on measures of body composition in the TODAY clinical trial.
AB  - Despite differential effects on measures of adiposity (with M+R resulting in the most and M+L in the least fat accumulation), group differences generally were small and unrelated to treatment effects in sustaining glycemic control.

UI  - 23704008
TI  - Cystic fibrosis-related diabetes compared with type 1 and type 2 diabetes in adults.
AB  - CFRD is a uniquely complex entity with clear differences from T1DM and T2DM in adults.

UI  - 23701274
TI  - A randomized, double-blind, crossover, placebo-controlled trial of 6 weeks benfotiamine treatment on postprandial vascular function and variables of autonomic nerve function in Type 2 diabetes.
AB  - In people with Type 2 diabetes and markedly impaired fasting flow-mediated dilatation, a mixed test meal does not further deteriorate flow-mediated dilatation or variables of microvascular or autonomic nervous function. Because no significant deterioration of postprandial flow-mediated dilatation, microvascular or autonomic nervous function tests occurred after placebo treatment, a prevention of the postprandial deterioration of these variables with benfotiamine was not feasible.

UI  - 23701262
TI  - GSK256073, a selective agonist of G-protein coupled receptor 109A (GPR109A) reduces serum glucose in subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - Administration of a GPR109A agonist for 2 days significantly decreased serum NEFA and glucose concentrations in diabetic subjects. Glucose improvements were associated with decreased insulin concentrations and measures of enhanced insulin sensitivity. Improved glucose control occurred with GSK256073 doses that were generally safe and not associated with events of flushing or gastrointestinal disturbances.

UI  - 23700406
TI  - Treatment of obesity and diabetes using oxytocin or analogs in patients and mouse models.
AB  - Obesity is important for the development of type-2 diabetes as a result of obesity-induced insulin resistance accompanied by impaired compensation of insulin secretion from pancreatic beta cells. Here, based on a randomized pilot clinical trial, we report that intranasal oxytocin administration over an 8-week period led to effective reduction of obesity and reversal of related prediabetic changes in patients. Using mouse models, we further systematically evaluated whether oxytocin and its analogs yield therapeutic effects against prediabetic or diabetic disorders regardless of obesity. Our results showed that oxytocin and two analogs including [Ser4, Ile8]-oxytocin or [Asu1,6]-oxytocin worked in mice to reverse insulin resistance and glucose intolerance prior to reduction of obesity. In parallel, using streptozotocin-induced diabetic mouse model, we found that treatment with oxytocin or its analogs reduced the magnitude of glucose intolerance through improving insulin secretion. The anti-diabetic effects of oxytocin and its analogs in these animal models can be produced similarly whether central or peripheral administration was used. In conclusion, oxytocin and its analogs have multi-level effects in improving weight control, insulin sensitivity and insulin secretion, and bear potentials for being developed as therapeutic peptides for obesity and diabetes.

UI  - 23698396
TI  - Efficacy and safety of lixisenatide once daily versus exenatide twice daily in type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled on metformin: a 24-week, randomized, open-label, active-controlled study (GetGoal-X).
AB  - Add-on lixisenatide once daily in type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled with metformin demonstrated noninferior improvements in HbA1c, with slightly lower mean weight loss, lower incidence of hypoglycemia, and better gastrointestinal tolerability compared with exenatide twice daily.

UI  - 23698202
TI  - The effectiveness of oral goat colostrum in the treatment of patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus: our preliminary experience.
AB  - The effects of colostrum are presumably linked to increased levels of IGF-1 that improves the utilization of glucose, stimulates glycogen and protein synthesis.

UI  - 23697477
TI  - Reducing cardiovascular medication complexity in a German university hospital: effects of a structured pharmaceutical management intervention on adherence.
AB  - The complexity of cardiovascular and antidiabetic hospital medications can be reduced by counseling the hospital doctors. However, for a sustainable simplification of outpatient medication, the PCPs must receive explicit information about the modifications. Patient adherence was not significantly influenced by this intervention. To verify these results, further research with objective measures of adherence and in patients with other diseases is needed.

UI  - 23690531
TI  - Rationale and design of the glycemia reduction approaches in diabetes: a comparative effectiveness study (GRADE).
AB  - GRADE will compare the long-term effectiveness of major glycemia-lowering medications and provide guidance to clinicians about the most appropriate medications to treat T2DM. GRADE begins recruitment at 37 centers in the U.S. in 2013.

UI  - 23689115
TI  - Structural and functional assessment of macula in patients with high-risk proliferative diabetic retinopathy submitted to panretinal photocoagulation and associated intravitreal bevacizumab injections: a comparative, randomised, controlled trial.
AB  - In HR-PDR, using IVB injections as adjuvant treatment to PRP reduces the VA deterioration and results in decreased FT and MV measurements compared to PRP alone.

UI  - 23687948
TI  - Poor pregnancy outcome in women with type 1 diabetes is predicted by elevated HbA1c and spikes of high glucose values in the third trimester.
AB  - Elevated HbA1c, high glucose spikes and out-of-range %PG in the third trimester, and albuminuria in early pregnancy, are associated with poor late-pregnancy outcomes.

UI  - 23686001
TI  - Contrast sensitivity evaluation in high risk proliferative diabetic retinopathy treated with panretinal photocoagulation associated or not with intravitreal bevacizumab injections: a randomised clinical trial.
AB  - In eyes with HR-PDR, PRP treatment is associated with deterioration of CS while adjuvant use of bevacizumab prevents such deterioration. CS evaluation seems to support the adjuvant use of bevacizumab when using PRP for the treatment of HR-PDR. ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier NCT 01389505.

UI  - 23685845
TI  - Low nitric oxide bioavailability is associated with better responses to sildenafil in patients with erectile dysfunction.
AB  - Erectile dysfunction (ED) is a multifactorial disease associated with vascular dysfunction, low nitric oxide (NO) bioavailability, and oxidative stress. However, it is not known whether low NO bioavailability and oxidative stress affect the responsiveness of ED patients to sildenafil. We tested this hypothesis by studying 28 healthy subjects (control group), 26 patients with ED without comorbidities (ED group), and 18 patients with ED and diabetes mellitus (ED/DM group). The International Index for Erectile Function (IIEF) questionnaire was used to assess the erectile function of all participants, and their responsiveness to sildenafil was assessed as the percentage of change in the five-item version of IIEF score before and after sildenafil treatment. Levels of whole blood nitrite, antioxidants markers (ferric reducing ability of plasma (FRAP) and reduced glutathione), and oxidative stress markers (thiobarbituric acid reactive substance and protein carbonyl) were determined. We found a negative correlation between whole blood nitrite levels and the responses to sildenafil in both ED groups (P<0.05). FRAP correlated negatively with the responses to sildenafil in the ED/DM group (P<0.05). No other significant associations were found. Our findings show evidence that low NO bioavailability is associated with better responses to sildenafil in patients with ED (with or without DM).

UI  - 23683134
TI  - Diabetes and gout: efficacy and safety of febuxostat and allopurinol.
AB  - Despite higher co-morbidity rates in diabetic patients, febuxostat and allopurinol were safe in both groups at the doses tested. Febuxostat 80mg achieved sUA <6.0mg/dl more often than febuxostat 40mg or allopurinol at commonly prescribed doses.

UI  - 23683069
TI  - Liraglutide suppresses postprandial triglyceride and apolipoprotein B48 elevations after a fat-rich meal in patients with type 2 diabetes: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, cross-over trial.
AB  - Liraglutide treatment in patients with T2DM significantly reduced postprandial excursions of triglyceride and apolipoprotein B48 after a fat-rich meal, independently of gastric emptying. Results indicate liraglutide's potential to reduce CVD risk via improvement of postprandial lipaemia.

UI  - 23680739
TI  - Efficacy and safety of canagliflozin treatment in older subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus: a randomized trial.
AB  - Canagliflozin improved glycemic control, reduced body weight and systolic BP, and was generally well tolerated in older subjects with T2DM who were on background therapy with a variety of blood glucose-lowering agents.

UI  - 23680243
TI  - Pregnancy outcome and glycemic control in women with type 1 diabetes: a retrospective comparison between CSII and MDI treatment.
AB  - Results of present study revealed that the CSII gives better glycemic control and pregnancy outcome in pregnant type 1 diabetic patients compared to MDI treatment. CSII also decreases the daily insulin requirement compared MDI.

UI  - 23680059
TI  - Effect of thiazolidinediones and insulin on cognitive outcomes in ACCORD-MIND.
AB  - Exposure to a TZD may increase cognitive decline in some patients with T2D. However, these results may be confounded by unexplained differences between participants.

UI  - 23678828
TI  - Alpha lipoic acid and glycaemic control in diabetic neuropathies at type 2 diabetes treatment.
AB  - Alfa lipoic acid is an effective drug in the treatment of diabetic distal sensory-motor neuropathy and its therapeutic effect is more effective in patients with good glycaemic control.

UI  - 23676586
TI  - Effects of liraglutide, a human glucagon-like peptide-1 analogue, on body weight, body fat area and body fat-related markers in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - In addition to its glucose-lowering effects, liraglutide exhibits weight loss promotion actions, reducing subcutaneous fat areas in particular. The weight and total fat area reduction properties of liraglutide are likely to be beneficial when this medication is used in combination with other oral antidiabetic drugs and insulin.

UI  - 23675990
TI  - Diabetes-ameliorating effects of fermented red ginseng and causal effects on hormonal interactions: testing the hypothesis by multiple group path analysis.
AB  - Although diagnostic criteria for metabolic syndrome (MtS) vary among various health professionals and organizations, blood glucose dysregulation and insulin resistance are common to all definitions. Red ginseng is beneficial for glucose regulation and insulin sensitivity but the mechanism is not yet elucidated. Ginsenosides Rh1 and Rg3 act as ligands of the estrogen receptor, and Rh2 and compound K act as ligands of the glucocorticoid receptors, which may influence the diabetes markers. The objective of this study was to test the hypothesis that there are significant causal relationships among diabetes-related markers and several hormones, and assess whether or not the consumption of fermented red ginseng (FRG) influences these causal relationships by multiple group path analysis and conventional statistical analyses. The 93 postmenopausal women were randomly divided into two groups for a double-blind trial. FRG powder and placebo were provided for 2 weeks. The data were analyzed by multiple group path analysis and the mean between groups were compared. The model's goodness of fit was excellent, with a root mean square error of approximation of 0.00, and comparative fit index of 1.00. The FRG group exhibited significantly increased levels of dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHEAS), growth hormone (GH), and estradiol (E2), and they exhibited decreased levels of glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c), insulin, and homeostatic model assessment of insulin resistance. With regard to the hypothesis, the blood glucose lowering effects of FRG were due to the negative effects of aldosterone and increased GH, which was associated with DHEAS and E2. Even though the differences of variables between both groups were small, the total effects of these variables may indicate beneficial changes for the prevention of diabetes in healthy postmenopausal women.

UI  - 23675676
TI  - The influence of physical activity on vascular complications and mortality in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - Moderate to vigorous, but not mild, physical activity is associated with a reduced incidence of cardiovascular events, microvascular complications and all-cause mortality in patients with type 2 diabetes.

UI  - 23674605
TI  - The CTRB1/2 locus affects diabetes susceptibility and treatment via the incretin pathway.
AB  - The incretin hormone glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) promotes glucose homeostasis and enhances -cell function. GLP-1 receptor agonists (GLP-1 RAs) and dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors, which inhibit the physiological inactivation of endogenous GLP-1, are used for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. Using the Metabochip, we identified three novel genetic loci with large effects (30-40%) on GLP-1-stimulated insulin secretion during hyperglycemic clamps in nondiabetic Caucasian individuals (TMEM114; CHST3 and CTRB1/2; n = 232; all P  8.8  10(-7)). rs7202877 near CTRB1/2, a known diabetes risk locus, also associated with an absolute 0.51  0.16% (5.6  1.7 mmol/mol) lower A1C response to DPP-4 inhibitor treatment in G-allele carriers, but there was no effect on GLP-1 RA treatment in type 2 diabetic patients (n = 527). Furthermore, in pancreatic tissue, we show that rs7202877 acts as expression quantitative trait locus for CTRB1 and CTRB2, encoding chymotrypsinogen, and increases fecal chymotrypsin activity in healthy carriers. Chymotrypsin is one of the most abundant digestive enzymes in the gut where it cleaves food proteins into smaller peptide fragments. Our data identify chymotrypsin in the regulation of the incretin pathway, development of diabetes, and response to DPP-4 inhibitor treatment.

UI  - 23674518
TI  - The lost correlation between leptin and CRP in type 2 diabetes.
AB  - C reactive protein (CRP) is an inflammatory marker believed to be of value in the early prediction of type 2 diabetes (T2DM). Recent studies have shown a positive correlation between leptin and CRP levels. Here, we aimed to study the correlation between leptin and CRP in patients with T2DM. We also studied the effect of metformin therapy on the CRP-leptin correlation in patients with newly diagnosed diabetes. We performed a follow-up study on three groups of participants defined as 1: patients with newly diagnosed T2DM, 2: patients with long-standing T2DM, and 3: healthy controls. Patients with newly diagnosed diabetes were followed for three months after the initiation of metformin therapy. The homeostatic model assessment of insulin resistance (HOMA-IR) decreased, while leptin levels (15.91.6 versus 21.42.5, p<0.01) increased after metformin therapy. Leptin levels correlated significantly with CRP in healthy controls (r=0.48; p<0.01); patients with newly diagnosed diabetes before (r=0.35; p<0.05), and after (r=0.55, p<0.001) metformin therapy, while there was no significant correlation between leptin and CRP in patients with long-standing diabetes (r=0.15; p=0.55). After multiple adjustments for potential confounders, leptin was the best predictor of CRP in controls ( coefficient=0.433, p<0.01), and patients with newly diagnosed T2DM who received metformin ( coefficient=0.584, p<0.01). Statin treatment did not have any significant effect on the results. This is the first report demonstrating the restorative role of metformin on the leptin-CRP correlation in patients with newly diagnosed diabetes.

UI  - 23674159
TI  - Feasibility and efficacy of an isocaloric high-protein vs. standard diet on insulin requirement, body weight and metabolic parameters in patients with type 2 diabetes on insulin therapy.
AB  - In this study we demonstrate that a high protein diet with emphasis on plant source protein vs. a standard diet is feasible in insulin-treated type-2 diabetic patients and reduces insulin requirement and body weight and improves metabolic parameters up to 12 weeks. A high protein diet can thus be considered as an appropriate diet choice for type-2 diabetic patients.

UI  - 23673377
TI  - Self-rated health predicts outcome in patients with type 2 diabetes and myocardial infarction: a DIGAMI 2 quality of life sub-study.
AB  - The Diabetes mellitus Insulin-Glucose Infusion in Acute Myocardial Infarction (DIGAMI) 2 Quality of Life (QoL) sub-study included 465 patients with type 2 diabetes and acute myocardial infarction (AMI) followed for 2 years. Self-rated health was reported by the rating scale (RS), graded 0 = death to 100 = perfect health. Prospective associations between RS and all-cause mortality, cardiovascular (CV) death and cardiovascular events (CVEs = CV death, non-fatal AMI, stroke) were assessed. Median age was 68 years (range 59-74), 68% male. Patients experiencing CVE (n = 132) or death (n = 71) had lower RS compared with patients free from events: 60 (50-79) versus 70 (55-81) (p < 0.001) and 60 (50-75) versus 70 (51-80) (p = 0.008). The RS score predicted CVE [hazard ratio (HR); 95% confidence interval (CI): 0.87; 0.80-0.95] and all-cause mortality (0.86; 0.76-0.97), and corresponding HRs after adjustment were 0.90; 0.83-0.99 and 0.90; 0.79-1.02, respectively. A low self-rated health is of prognostic importance in patients with type 2 diabetes and AMI and may serve as an easily obtainable indicator of high risk for CVEs supplementing traditional risk factors.

UI  - 23672632
TI  - Efficacy and safety of linagliptin added to metformin and sulphonylurea in Chinese patients with type 2 diabetes: a sub-analysis of data from a randomised clinical trial.
AB  - Linagliptin in combination with metformin and sulphonylurea has a favourable safety profile and is an efficacious and well tolerated treatment option for Chinese patients with inadequately controlled T2DM. Reduction of sulphonylurea dose should be considered to minimise risk of hypoglycaemia. Although the findings of this pre-specified sub-analysis may be limited by the number of patients in the subgroup, the results were generally consistent with those for the overall population. CLINICALTRIALS IDENTIFIER: NCT00602472.

UI  - 23672413
TI  - Model-driven diabetes care: study protocol for a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Clinicaltrials.gov: NCT01774149.

UI  - 23672220
TI  - Efficacy and safety of acarbose chewable tablet in patients with type 2 diabetes: a multicentre, randomized, double-blinded, double-dummy positive controlled trial.
AB  - In summary, acarbose chewable tablets have a definite curative effect in treating type 2 diabetic patients as HbA1c and blood glucose levels decreased significantly after the 12-week treatment.

UI  - 23670707
TI  - Pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of canagliflozin, a sodium glucose co-transporter 2 inhibitor, in subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - This study characterized single- and multiple-dose pharmacokinetics of canagliflozin and its O-glucuronide metabolites (M5 and M7) and pharmacodynamics (renal threshold for glucose [RTG ], urinary glucose excretion [UGE0-24h ], and 24-hour mean plasma glucose [MPG0-24h ]) of canagliflozin in subjects with type 2 diabetes. Thirty-six randomized subjects received canagliflozin 50, 100, or 300mg/day or placebo for 7 days. On Days 1 and 7, area under the plasma concentration-time curve and maximum observed plasma concentration (Cmax ) for canagliflozin and its metabolites increased dose-dependently. Half-life and time at which Cmax was observed were dose-independent. Systemic molar M5 exposure was half that of canagliflozin; M7 exposure was similar to canagliflozin. Steady-state plasma canagliflozin concentrations were reached by Day 4 in all active treatment groups. Pharmacodynamic effects were dose- and exposure-dependent. All canagliflozin doses decreased RTG , increased UGE0-24h , and reduced MPG0-24h versus placebo on Days 1 and 7. On Day 7, placebo-subtracted least-squares mean decreases in MPG0-24h ranged from 42-57mg/dL with canagliflozin treatment. Adverse events (AEs) were balanced between treatments; no treatment-related serious AEs, AE-related discontinuations, or clinically meaningful adverse changes in routine safety evaluations occurred. The observed pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic profile of canagliflozin in subjects with type 2 diabetes supports a once-daily dosing regimen.

UI  - 23668478
TI  - Dapagliflozin a glucose-regulating drug with diuretic properties in subjects with type 2 diabetes.
AB  - Dapagliflozin-induced SGLT2 inhibition for 12weeks is associated with reductions in 24-h BP, body weight, GFR and possibly plasma volume. Cumulatively, these effects suggest that dapagliflozin may have a diuretic-like capacity to lower BP in addition to beneficial effects on glycaemic control.

UI  - 23668425
TI  - Are users of sulphonylureas at the time of an acute coronary syndrome at risk of poorer outcomes?
AB  - Diabetes is associated with an increased risk of death or HF within 30days of an acute coronary syndrome. However, we did not find any excess risk of death or HF associated with use of K(ATP) channel inhibitors at the time of an acute coronary syndrome, raising doubts about the hypothesis that sulphonylureas inhibit the cardioprotective effects of myocardial K(ATP) channels.

UI  - 23665731
TI  - Clinical outcomes of WF10 adjunct to standard treatment of diabetic foot ulcers.
AB  - WF I 0 as an adjunct to standard DFU treatment showed good clinical outcomes in the neuropathic ulcer group and the severely infected ulcer group. A side effect of WF I 0, transient reduction of haematocrit, was observed in 21% of patients. Most patients required only one cycle of WF I 0.

UI  - 23665469
TI  - Homocysteine is a novel risk factor for suboptimal response of blood platelets to acetylsalicylic acid in coronary artery disease: a randomized multicenter study.
AB  - The incomplete inhibition of platelet function by acetylsalicylic acid (ASA), despite the patients are receiving therapeutic doses of the drug ('aspirin-resistance'), is caused by numbers of risk factors. In this study we verified the idea that plasma homocysteine (Hcy) contributes to 'aspirin-resistance' in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) and with or without type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). A cross-designed randomized controlled intervention study has been performed (126 CAD pts incl. 26 with T2DM) to determine whether increasing ASA dose from 75mg to 150mg daily may result in the increased antiplatelet effect, in the course of four-week treatment. Platelet response to collagen (coll) or arachidonic acid (AA) was monitored with whole blood aggregometry, plasma thromboxane (Tx), and Hcy levels were determined immunochemically. The ASA-mediated reductions in platelet response to coll (by 123%) or AA (by 103%) and in plasma Tx (by 209%; p<0.02 or less) were significantly greater for higher ASA dose and significantly correlated with plasma Hcy, which was significantly lower in "good" ASA responders compared to "poor" responders (p<0.001). Higher plasma Hcy appeared a significant risk factor for blood platelet refractoriness to low ASA dose (OR=1.11; 95%CI: 1.02-1.20, p<0.02, adjusted to age, sex and CAD risk factors). Hcy diminished in vitro antiplatelet effect of low ASA concentration and augmented platelet aggregation (by up to 62% (p<0.005) for coll and up to 15% (p<0.005) for AA), whereas its acetyl derivative acted oppositely. Otherwise, Hcy intensified antiplatelet action of high ASA. Hyperhomocysteinaemia may be a novel risk factor for the suppressed blood platelet response to ASA, and homocysteine may act as a specific sensitizer of blood platelets to some agonists. While homocysteine per se acts as a proaggregatory agent to blood platelets, its acetylated form is able to reverse this effect. Thus, these findings reveal a possibly new challenging potential of the acetylating properties of ASA therapy.

UI  - 23665027
TI  - Effects of lixisenatide once daily on gastric emptying in type 2 diabetes--relationship to postprandial glycemia.
AB  - In this study, lixisenatide at a dose of 20 g QD reduced postprandial glycemic excursions in patients with T2DM, possibly as a result of sustained slowing of gastric emptying.

UI  - 23664596
TI  - Effects of low-dose aspirin and fish oil on platelet function and NF-kappaB in adults with diabetes mellitus.
AB  - Co-administration of aspirin and fish oil may reduce platelet aggregation more than aspirin alone in adults with diabetes mellitus.

UI  - 23659564
TI  - Clinical outcomes after 24 months of insulin therapy in patients with type 2 diabetes in five countries: results from the TREAT study.
AB  - Mean baseline HbA1c was high, indicating delayed initiation of insulin treatment. Blood pressure and lipids were suboptimally controlled. Insulin regimens varied between countries, changed little and resulted in similar HbA1c levels after 24 months.

UI  - 23657005
TI  - Transglucosidase improves the gut microbiota profile of type 2 diabetes mellitus patients: a randomized double-blind, placebo-controlled study.
AB  - UMIN-CTR UMIN000010318.

UI  - 23656980
TI  - Characteristics associated with maintenance of mean A1C<6.5% in people with dysglycemia in the ORIGIN trial.
AB  - Systematic intervention with basal insulin glargine or standard care early in the natural history of dysglycemia can maintain glycemic control near baseline levels for at least 5 years, whether diabetes is present at baseline or not. Keeping mean A1C<6.5% is more likely in people with lower baseline A1C and with the glargine-based regimen.

UI  - 23647720
TI  - Clinical experience with BIAsp 30: results from the Indonesian cohort of the international Achieve study.
AB  - The current study suggests that BIAsp 30 can be considered as a safe and effective option for initiating as well as intensifying insulin therapy in Indonesian patients with T2D.

UI  - 23647719
TI  - Clinical experience with insulin detemir: results from the Indonesian cohort of the international Achieve study.
AB  - This sub-analysis suggests that insulin detemir can be a safe and effective option for initiating insulin therapy in people with T2D in Indonesia.

UI  - 23647718
TI  - Clinical safety and effectiveness of biphasic insulin aspart 30 in type 2 diabetes patients switched from biphasic human insulin 30: results from the Indonesian cohort of the Achieve study.
AB  - Switching from BHI 30 to BIAsp 30 in this Indonesian cohort was well-tolerated and improved glycaemic control with a decreased risk of hypoglycaemia.

UI  - 23647717
TI  - Safety and effectiveness of biphasic insulin aspart 30 in type 2 diabetes patients switched from biphasic human insulin 30: results from the Filipino cohort of the Achieve study.
AB  - Switching from BHI 30 to BIAsp 30 improved glycaemic control without increasing the risk of hypoglycaemia.

UI  - 23647716
TI  - Safety and effectiveness of biphasic insulin aspart 30 in a Bangladeshi subgroup of type 2 diabetic patients switched from biphasic human insulin 30: a sub-analysis of the Achieve study.
AB  - Switching from BHI to BIAsp 30 therapy improved blood glucose control and was well-tolerated in this Bangladeshi subgroup.

UI  - 23647715
TI  - Safety and effectiveness of biphasic insulin aspart 30 in type 2 diabetes: results from the ASEAN cohort of the Achieve study.
AB  - BIAsp 30 was well-tolerated and improved glucose control while decreasing the risk of hypoglycaemia.

UI  - 23647714
TI  - Switching from biphasic human insulin to biphasic insulin aspart 30 in type 2 diabetes: results from the ASEAN subgroup of the Achieve study.
AB  - BIAsp 30 was well-tolerated and significantly increased glycaemic control in this ASEAN subgroup poorly controlled on BHI.

UI  - 23647713
TI  - Safety and effectiveness of insulin aspart in type 2 diabetic patients: results from the ASEAN cohort of the Achieve study.
AB  - Starting IAsp therapy was well-tolerated and was associated with significantly improved overall glycaemic control in the ASEAN cohort.

UI  - 23647712
TI  - Safety and effectiveness of insulin detemir in type 2 diabetes: results from the ASEAN cohort of the Achieve study.
AB  - IDet was well-tolerated and improved glycaemic control without increasing the risk of hypoglycaemia or weight gain.

UI  - 23650901
TI  - Patch pump versus conventional pump: postprandial glycemic excursions and the influence of wear time.
AB  - Postprandial glycemic excursions were lower on Day 3 of catheter wear time, but there were no differences between PPs and CPs. These findings support the proposal that catheter wear time plays an important role in insulin absorption.

UI  - 23650900
TI  - Accuracy and reliability of continuous glucose monitoring systems: a head-to-head comparison.
AB  - In the CRC, G4A was less accurate than NAV and ENL sensors, which seemed comparable. However, at home, ENL was less accurate than NAV and G4A. Moreover, CGM systems often show sufficient accuracy to be used beyond manufacturer-specified lifetime.

UI  - 23645886
TI  - Randomized trial of continuous subcutaneous delivery of exenatide by ITCA 650 versus twice-daily exenatide injections in metformin-treated type 2 diabetes.
AB  - ITCA 650 significantly reduced HbA1c and weight and was well tolerated. The 20  60 g/day regimen was considered the best dose for further examination in phase 3.

UI  - 23640946
TI  - Comparative efficacy of exenatide versus insulin glargine on glycemic control in type 2 diabetes mellitus patients inadequately treated with metformin monotherapy.
AB  - Exenatide provided similar reduction in HbA1c, but fewer episodes of hypoglycemia, compared with insulin glargine. Exenatide had also a favorable effect on weight loss, although more gastrointestinal adverse events. Exenatide may provide a justified alternative in second line treatment of T2DM, but more trials are required to elucidate its long-term safety and cost-effectiveness.

UI  - 23638622
TI  - Raloxifene modifies the insulin sensitivity and lipid profile of postmenopausal insulin resistant women.
AB  - Raloxifene reduced insulin resistance and modified the lipid profile in insulin-resistant postmenopausal women.

UI  - 23637276
TI  - Efficacy of shellac, a natural product, for the prevention of wet gangrene.
AB  - Shellac is a natural solution that may be used to embalm gangrenous tissue in selected diabetic patients. More studies are needed to assess the long-term outcomes of this technique.

UI  - 23636445
TI  - Gestational diabetes mellitus among Norwegian women with polycystic ovary syndrome: prevalence and risk factors according to the WHO and the modified IADPSG criteria.
AB  - No difference was found in the prevalence of GDM between the two sets of criteria used. Less weight gain in pregnancy was associated with GDM, independent of the diagnostic criteria used. Reduced weight loss the first year post-partum in women with GDM raises the question of whether GDM diagnosis per se or the fact that these women lose less weight after pregnancy predicts later diabetes mellitus.

UI  - 23631607
TI  - Nateglinide and acarbose are comparably effective reducers of postprandial glycemic excursions in chinese antihyperglycemic agent-naive subjects with type 2 diabetes.
AB  - Nateglinide and acarbose were comparably effective in reducing postprandial glycemic excursions in antihyperglycemic agent-naive Chinese patients with type 2 diabetes, possibly through different pathophysiological mechanisms.

UI  - 23631604
TI  - Real-time continuous glucose monitoring or continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion, what goes first?: results of a pilot study.
AB  - CGM pre-CSII is effective in increasing RT-CGM frequency use in T1DM patients. This is accompanied by a significant reduction in time in hypoglycemia.

UI  - 23631443
TI  - Safety, pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of remogliflozin etabonate, a novel SGLT2 inhibitor, and metformin when co-administered in subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT00376038.

UI  - 23630033
TI  - Study design and rationale of a dose-ranging trial of LX4211, a dual inhibitor of SGLT1 and SGLT2, in type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled on metformin monotherapy.
AB  - Sodium-glucose cotransporters 1 (SGLT1) and 2 (SGLT2) are the major cellular transporters responsible for gastrointestinal (GI) glucose absorption and renal glucose reabsorption, respectively. LX4211, a dual inhibitor of SGLT1 and SGLT2, reduces glucose absorption from the GI tract and enhances urinary glucose excretion. Although several SGLT2-selective inhibitors have been tested in large phase 2 studies, dual inhibition of SGLT1 and SGLT2 is novel at this stage of drug development, and it has implications for clinical-trial design. In this article, we describe the design and rationale of a phase 2, multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel group study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of LX4211 in subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus who have inadequate glycemic control on metformin monotherapy. The primary endpoint is the change in glycated hemoglobin A1c from baseline to week 12. Secondary endpoints include the proportion of subjects achieving a glycated hemoglobin A1c value of <7%, change from baseline in fasting plasma glucose and postprandial glucose (as part of an oral glucose tolerance test), body weight, and blood pressure. Safety is evaluated with particular focus on hypoglycemia, GI symptoms, and incidence of genitourinary tract infections.

UI  - 23628617
TI  - Adding once-daily lixisenatide for type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled by established basal insulin: a 24-week, randomized, placebo-controlled comparison (GetGoal-L).
AB  - By improving HbA1c and postprandial hyperglycemia without weight gain in type 2 diabetes with inadequate glycemic control despite stable basal insulin, lixisenatide may provide an alternative to rapid-acting insulin or other treatment options.

UI  - 23627895
TI  - Lessons from the Hvidoere International Study Group on childhood diabetes: be dogmatic about outcome and flexible in approach.
AB  - 

UI  - 23627775
TI  - Efficacy and safety of lixisenatide once daily versus placebo in type 2 diabetes insufficiently controlled on pioglitazone (GetGoal-P).
AB  - Lixisenatide once daily significantly improved glycaemic control with a low risk of hypoglycaemia, and was well tolerated over 24weeks and during the long-term, double-blind extension period in patients with T2DM insufficiently controlled on pioglitazonemetformin.

UI  - 23626461
TI  - Tolerability and efficacy of glycemic control with saxagliptin in older patients (aged  65 years) with inadequately controlled type 2 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - Saxagliptin was effective and well tolerated, with a low risk of hypoglycemia, when used as monotherapy, add-on therapy, or initial combination therapy with metformin in older patients with T2DM.

UI  - 23624419
TI  - Evaluation of the positive effects on insulin-resistance and -cell measurements of vildagliptin in addition to metformin in type 2 diabetic patients.
AB  - We evaluated the positive effects of vildagliptin in addition to metformin on glycemic control and -cell function in type 2 diabetic patients. One hundred and seventy-one type 2 diabetic patients were instructed to add vildaglipin 50mg twice a day or placebo to metformin for 12 months. Body mass index (BMI), glycemic control, fasting plasma insulin (FPI), HOMA-IR, HOMA-, fasting plasma proinsulin (FPPr), proinsulin/fasting plasma insulin ratio (Pr/FPI ratio), C-peptide, glucagon, vaspin, visfatin, and omentin-1 were evaluated. Before, and after 12 months since the addition of vildagliptin, patients underwent a combined euglycemic hyperinsulinemic and hyperglycemic clamp, with subsequent arginine stimulation. Vildagliptin+metformin were more effective than placebo+metformin in reducing body weight and BMI, glycemic control, HOMA-IR, glucagon and insulin resistance measurements. Vildagliptin+metformin gave also a better increase of HOMA-, and of all -cell parameters after the clamp. We also recorded a significant correlation between M value increase and the decrease of vaspin, visfatin, and omentin-1 obtained with vildagliptin+metformin. Vildagliptin, in addition to metformin, proved to be effective in improving -cell function and in reducing insulin resistance measurements.

UI  - 23623608
TI  - Clinical outcomes and costs for patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus initiating insulin therapy in Greece: two-year experience from the INSTIGATE study.
AB  - In this cohort, insulin treatment seems to be effective with little long-term impact on cost. Findings should be interpreted in the context of an observational study.

UI  - 23622263
TI  - A prospective multi-centric open clinical trial of homeopathy in diabetic distal symmetric polyneuropathy.
AB  - This study suggests homeopathic medicines may be effective in managing the symptoms of DPN patients. Further studies should be controlled and include the quality of life (QOL) assessment.

UI  - 23621793
TI  - Comparison between shorter straight and thinner microtapered insulin injection needles.
AB  - The BD32S4 needle was more highly evaluated and was preferred by the patients with respect to pain during injection, usability, and visual impression, without having a negative impact on glycemic control. The overall preference of patients for the shorter needle in this study suggests that needle length may be one of the major contributing factors for patients' comfort in insulin injection, although the other relevant factors of needles still need to be considered.

UI  - 23617250
TI  - Effect of vildagliptin on glucose and insulin concentrations during a 24-hour period in type 2 diabetes patients with different ranges of baseline hemoglobin A1c levels.
AB  - Vildagliptin administration improved glucose control during a 24-h period in type 2 diabetes patients, independent of the basal A1C level, without changes in insulin levels.

UI  - 23617228
TI  - A randomized trial comparing perinatal outcomes using insulin detemir or neutral protamine Hagedorn in type 1 diabetes.
AB  - IDet is as well tolerated as NPH as regards perinatal outcomes in pregnant women with type 1 diabetes and no safety issues were identified.

UI  - 23608249
TI  - Relationship between vitamin D status and incidence of vascular events in the Veterans Affairs Diabetes Trial.
AB  - These data indicate that vitamin D status had no significant impact on the incidence of vascular events in a cohort of high-risk veterans with diabetes in which traditional risk factors were managed according to current treatment guidelines.

UI  - 23608219
TI  - Changes in time to insulin initiation in type 2 diabetes patients: a retrospective database analysis in Germany and UK (2005-2010).
AB  - This real world data shows that the time to insulin therapy has increased in type 2 diabetes patients from 2005 to 2010 (Germany, UK). The average HbA1c values before insulin therapy also slightly increased during this period.

UI  - 23606523
TI  - A model-based approach to predict longitudinal HbA1c, using early phase glucose data from type 2 diabetes mellitus patients after anti-diabetic treatment.
AB  - Predicting late phase outcomes from early-phase findings can help inform decisions in drug development. If the measurements in early-phase differ from those in late phase, forecasting is more challenging. In this paper, we present a model-based approach for predicting glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c) in late phase using glucose and insulin concentrations from an early-phase study, investigating an anti-diabetic treatment. Two previously published models were used; an integrated glucose and insulin (IGI) model for meal tolerance tests and an integrated glucose-red blood cell-HbA1c (IGRH) model predicting the formation of HbA1c from the average glucose concentration (Cg,av ). Output from the IGI model was used as input to the IGRH model. Parameters of the IGI model and drug effects were estimated using data from a phase1 study in 59 diabetic patients receiving various doses of a glucokinase activator. Cg,av values were simulated according to a Phase 2 study design and used in the IGRH model for predictions of HbA1c. The performance of the model-based approach was assessed by comparing the predicted to the actual outcome of the Phase 2 study. We have shown that this approach well predicts the longitudinal HbA1c response in a 12-week study using only information from a 1-week study where glucose and insulin concentrations were measured.

UI  - 23604551
TI  - Efficacy and safety over 26 weeks of an oral treatment strategy including sitagliptin compared with an injectable treatment strategy with liraglutide in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus inadequately controlled on metformin: a randomised clinical trial.
AB  - An oral, incretin-based treatment strategy with sitagliptin and, if needed, glimepiride may be a good approach in many patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus for managing inadequate glycaemic control on metformin monotherapy, as compared with an injectable treatment strategy with liraglutide. The oral and injectable strategies had similar effects on HbA1c and had good overall tolerability. Trial registration ClinicalTrials.gov NCT01296412 Funding The study was sponsored by Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck and Co., Inc., Whitehouse Station, NJ, USA.

UI  - 23600363
TI  - Glycemic control after addition of the dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitor alogliptin in patients with type 2 diabetes showing inadequate response to thrice-a-day treatment with -glucosidase inhibitors.
AB  - Addition of alogliptin to once-/twice-daily administration of an GI may be effective for obtaining improved glycemic control, without lowering the treatment satisfaction level, in type 2 diabetic patients.

UI  - 23598534
TI  - Diurnal glucose profiles using continuous glucose monitoring to identify the glucose-lowering characteristics of colesevelam HCl (Welchol).
AB  - AGP analysis of CGM visually and quantitatively showed immediate and midterm impacts of C-HCl on basal and postprandial glucose patterns. This suggests a multifactorial glucose-lowering mechanism for C-HCl affecting both meal-related and basal glucose levels.

UI  - 23598292
TI  - 'They leave at least believing they had a part in the discussion': understanding decision aid use and patient-clinician decision-making through qualitative research.
AB  - Clinician training in DA use and SDM practice may be needed to facilitate DA implementation and promote more ideal-type forms of sharing in decision making.

UI  - 23593142
TI  - Glucose-reducing effect of the ORMD-0801 oral insulin preparation in patients with uncontrolled type 1 diabetes: a pilot study.
AB  - Clinicaltrials.gov NCT00867594.

UI  - 23587029
TI  - In-treatment HDL cholesterol levels and development of new diabetes mellitus in hypertensive patients: the LIFE Study.
AB  - Lower in-treatment HDL is more strongly associated with increased risk of new diabetes than baseline HDL level.

UI  - 23586806
TI  - Anti-inflammatory effects of simvastatin in diabetic compared to non-diabetic patients on chronic hemodialysis.
AB  - 

UI  - 23585665
TI  - Validation of a novel method for determining the renal threshold for glucose excretion in untreated and canagliflozin-treated subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - In both untreated and canagliflozin-treated subjects with T2DM, RT(G) can be accurately estimated from measured BG, UGE, and estimated glomerular filtration rates using an MMTT-based method.

UI  - 23585636
TI  - A diabetes peer support intervention that improved glycemic control: mediators and moderators of intervention effectiveness.
AB  - Roughly half (49%, 95% CI: 3-80%) of the A1c effect was mediated by increased insulin use, while changes in diabetes social support had a negligible impact. A1c impacts varied across subgroups defined by baseline diabetes social support and functional health literacy (both p<0.01). The intervention was particularly beneficial among patients with low baseline diabetes support or literacy levels. The intervention had a greater impact on A1c among patients with more frequent engagement in peer support calls (p<0.01). DISCUSSION Patients receiving increased peer support had improved glycemic control largely due to their greater likelihood of initiating insulin. Greater intervention engagement was associated with stronger effects. The intervention had its greatest benefits among patients with low support or poorer health literacy.

UI  - 23581911
TI  - Contributions of basal and prandial hyperglycemia to total hyperglycemia in older and younger adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - The relative contribution of BHG was lower, and that of PPHG was greater in older than in younger participants, suggesting that different therapeutic approaches may be required to treat hyperglycemia effectively in these different age groups.

UI  - 23581458
TI  - A randomized, placebo-controlled, crossover study of an herbal preparation containing Vernonia cinerea in the treatment of type 2 diabetes.
AB  - Herbal treatment with V. cinerea has a beneficial effect on reducing the glycemic state in patients with type 2 diabetes.

UI  - 23579178
TI  - Mechanisms of glucose lowering of dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitor sitagliptin when used alone or with metformin in type 2 diabetes: a double-tracer study.
AB  - M+S combined produce additive effects to 1) reduce FPG and postmeal plasma glucose, 2) augment GLP-1 secretion and -cell function, 3) decrease plasma glucagon, and 4) inhibit fasting and postmeal EGP compared with M or S monotherapy.

UI  - 23578605
TI  - A randomized, open-label, multicenter, 4-week study to evaluate the tolerability and pharmacokinetics of ITCA 650 in patients with type 2 diabetes.
AB  - ITCA 650 provided continuous and controlled subcutaneous delivery of exenatide for 28 days that was generally well tolerated and produced significant reductions in plasma glucose, HbA1c, and weight. Further studies are warranted to characterize the long-term tolerability and efficacy of ITCA 650 for the treatment of patients with type 2 diabetes. ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT01798264.

UI  - 23577643
TI  - Effect of insulin degludec versus sitagliptin in patients with type 2 diabetes uncontrolled on oral antidiabetic agents.
AB  - In patients unable to achieve good glycaemic control on OAD(s), treatment intensification with IDeg offers an effective, well-tolerated alternative to the addition of a second or third OAD.

UI  - 23574730
TI  - Effects of miglitol versus sitagliptin on postprandial glucose and lipoprotein metabolism in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - Postprandial hyperglycemia and/or hyperlipidemia can contribute to development of atherosclerosis in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). The objective of this study was to compare the effects of miglitol and sitagliptin on postprandial glucose and lipid metabolism in patients with T2DM. Thirty-five patients with T2DM were randomized to 2 groups receiving miglitol (150 mg/day) or sitagliptin (50 mg/day). Serum variables related to glucose and lipid metabolism were measured before and after treatment for 10 weeks and at 0, 60, and 120 min using a cookie-loading test (CLT). After 10 weeks of treatment, miglitol (n = 16) and sitagliptin (n = 18) caused a similarly significant decrease in hemoglobin A1c (mean: 7.6% to 7.3% versus 8.0% to 7.6%) and a significant increase in fasting insulin levels, with a greater increase observed in the miglitol group than in the sitagliptin group (p=0.03). In addition, a significant decrease in the change in glucose levels after the CLT was observed in both groups, with a greater decrease observed in the miglitol group than in the sitagliptin group (p=0.02). The miglitol group also showed a greater decrease in the change in insulin levels after the CLT than the sitagliptin group (p<0.01). The lipid and lipoprotein levels did not show any significant differences between the groups after the CLT. Our results suggested that miglitol and sitagliptin treatment resulted in similar glycemic control but that a greater decrease in postprandial glucose and insulin levels was observed with miglitol compared with sitagliptin in patients with T2DM.

UI  - 23574533
TI  - Effects of pioglitazone versus glimepiride exposure on hepatocellular fat content in type 2 diabetes.
AB  - Short-term, low-dose thiazolidendione treatment improves insulin sensitivity of lipolysis and HCL, without affecting muscle and liver insulin sensitivity. It appears that metabolic PIO action in T2DM is primarily mediated via a decline in HCL associated with greater sensitivity of lipolysis to insulin.

UI  - 23570538
TI  - The effects of inpatient hybrid closed-loop therapy initiated within 1 week of type 1 diabetes diagnosis.
AB  - Inpatient HCLC followed by outpatient SAP therapy can provide a safe and effective means to rapidly reverse glucose toxicity and establish near-normal glycemic control in patients with newly diagnosed type 1 diabetes.

UI  - 23569175
TI  - Concentrations of insulin glargine and its metabolites during long-term insulin therapy in type 2 diabetic patients and comparison of effects of insulin glargine, its metabolites, IGF-I, and human insulin on insulin and igf-I receptor signaling.
AB  - We investigated 1) the ability of purified glargine (GLA), metabolites 1 (M1) and 2 (M2), IGF-I, and NPH insulin to activate the insulin receptor (IR)-A and IR-B and IGF-I receptor (IGF-IR) in vitro; 2) plasma concentrations of GLA, M1, and M2 during long-term insulin therapy in type 2 diabetic patients; and 3) IR-A and IR-B activation in vitro induced by serum from patients treated with GLA or NPH insulin. A total of 104 patients (age 56.3  0.8 years, BMI 31.4  0.5 kg/m(2), and A1C 9.1  0.1% [mean  SE]) were randomized to GLA or NPH insulin therapy for 36 weeks. Plasma concentrations of GLA, M1, and M2 were determined by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry assay. IR-A, IR-B, and IGF-IR autophosphorylation was induced by purified hormones or serum by kinase receptor activation assays. In vitro, M1 induced comparable IR-A, IR-B, and IGF-IR autophosphorylation (activation) as NPH insulin. After 36 weeks, M1 increased from undetectable (<0.2 ng/mL) to 1.5 ng/mL (0.9-2.1), while GLA and M2 remained undetectable. GLA dose correlated with M1 (r = 0.84; P < 0.001). Serum from patients treated with GLA or NPH insulin induced similar IR-A and IR-B activation. These data suggest that M1 rather than GLA mediates GLA effects and that compared with NPH insulin, GLA does not increase IGF-IR signaling during long-term insulin therapy in type 2 diabetes.

UI  - 23567016
TI  - Ease of use of two reusable, half-unit increment dosing insulin pens by adult caregivers of children with type 1 diabetes: a randomized, crossover comparison.
AB  - 

UI  - 23567001
TI  - Understanding heterogeneity in response to antidiabetes treatment: a post hoc analysis using SIDES, a subgroup identification algorithm.
AB  - The observation that younger patients with higher levels of fasting insulin may benefit from a regimen that includes short-acting insulin targeting postprandial glycemia helps explain the heterogeneity in response and warrants further investigation.

UI  - 23566996
TI  - Feasibility of adjacent insulin infusion and continuous glucose monitoring via the Medtronic Combo-Set.
AB  - A device providing for simultaneous adjacent placement of an insulin infusion catheter and a CGM sensor is feasible and functions within acceptable limits. The low "no delivery" alarm rate was similar to that of other infusion sets.

UI  - 23566993
TI  - Acceptability and utility of the mySentry remote glucose monitoring system.
AB  - The mySentry system met all predefined criteria for acceptability and did not demonstrate safety issues. Alerting parents to abnormal glucose values or trends may attenuate nocturnal hypoglycemia and hyperglycemia by prompting appropriate and timely intervention.

UI  - 23565760
TI  - Linagliptin provides effective, well-tolerated add-on therapy to pre-existing oral antidiabetic therapy over 1 year in Japanese patients with type 2 diabetes.
AB  - Once-daily linagliptin showed safety and tolerability over 1year and provided effective add-on therapy leading to significant HbA1c reductions, similar to metformin, over 52weeks in Japanese patients.

UI  - 23564919
TI  - Canagliflozin compared with sitagliptin for patients with type 2 diabetes who do not have adequate glycemic control with metformin plus sulfonylurea: a 52-week randomized trial.
AB  - Findings suggest that canagliflozin may be a new therapeutic tool providing better improvement in glycemic control and body weight reduction than sitagliptin, but with increased genital infections in subjects with type 2 diabetes using metformin plus sulfonylurea.

UI  - 23564917
TI  - Low-carbohydrate diet for the treatment of gestational diabetes mellitus: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Treatment of women with GDM using a low-CHO diet did not reduce the number of women needing insulin and produced similar pregnancy outcomes. In GDM, CHO amount (40 vs. 55% of calories) did not influence insulin need or pregnancy outcomes.

UI  - 23564915
TI  - Adding once-daily lixisenatide for type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled with newly initiated and continuously titrated basal insulin glargine: a 24-week, randomized, placebo-controlled study (GetGoal-Duo 1).
AB  - Adding lixisenatide to insulin glargine improved overall and postprandial hyperglycemia and deserves consideration as an alternative to prandial insulin for patients not reaching HbA1c goals with recently initiated basal insulin.

UI  - 23564755
TI  - Baseline characteristics of the patient population in the Saxagliptin Assessment of Vascular Outcomes Recorded in patients with diabetes mellitus (SAVOR)-TIMI 53 trial.
AB  - The SAVOR-TIMI 53 patient population, with differing background diabetes control and anti-diabetic treatment, provides global representation of diabetic patients with established cardiovascular disease or at high risk for cardiovascular disease and is well-positioned to determine the effect of saxagliptin on cardiovascular events.

UI  - 23564595
TI  - A study of glycemic response to Corinthian raisins in healthy subjects and in type 2 diabetes mellitus patients.
AB  - This study was designed to evaluate the metabolic response to Corinthian raisins in healthy and in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Healthy subjects (n = 15) and diabetic patients (n = 15) received 74 g raisins or 50 g glucose as reference food. Blood samples were collected at time 0 (before the consumption) and 30, 60, 90, 120, 150 and 180 min after raisin or glucose consumption. There was no significant difference in baseline glucose and insulin between raisins and reference in both groups. The difference at glucose peaks between raisins and reference was significant in healthy and in diabetics. Glycemic and insulinemic responses were decreased after raisin consumption compared to reference. An estimate of the glycemic index would be 66.3  3.4.

UI  - 23563040
TI  - Effect of metformin on selected parameters of hemostasis in fenofibrate-treated patients with impaired glucose tolerance.
AB  - Our results show that high-dose metformin exhibits beneficial effects on coagulation and fibrinolysis in isolated IGT patients treated with a fibrate.

UI  - 23562090
TI  - Interleukin-1 antagonism in type 1 diabetes of recent onset: two multicentre, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials.
AB  - National Institutes of Health and Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation.

UI  - 23561637
TI  - Effect of high doses of vitamin D on arterial properties, adiponectin, leptin and glucose homeostasis in type 2 diabetic patients.
AB  - High doses of vitamin D supplementation in diabetic patients was associated with significant decrease in AI during one year treatment. This beneficial vascular effect was not associated with improvement in glucose homeostasis parameters.

UI  - 23558875
TI  - Association of plasma concentrations of salicylic acid and high on ASA platelet reactivity in type 2 diabetes patients.
AB  - Our study suggests that disturbances of pharmacokinetic mechanisms might contribute to lower plasma SA levels, and subsequently incomplete inhibition of thromboxane A2 synthesis as measured with S-TxB2 concentrations and increased platelet reactivity measured with VerifyNow in T2DM patients.

UI  - 23558107
TI  - Placental protein tyrosine nitration and MAPK in type 1 diabetic pre-eclampsia: Impact of antioxidant vitamin supplementation.
AB  - Nitrotyrosine immunopositivity in normotensive diabetic placentae indicates some degree of tyrosine nitration in uncomplicated diabetic pregnancy, possibly due to inherent oxidative stress and peroxynitrite production. Our results suggest that p38-MAPK, ERK and JNK are not directly involved in the pathogenesis of type 1 diabetic pre-eclampsia and are not modulated by vitamin-supplementation.

UI  - 23557077
TI  - Superior glycaemic control with once-daily insulin degludec/insulin aspart versus insulin glargine in Japanese adults with type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled with oral drugs: a randomized, controlled phase 3 trial.
AB  - IDegAsp provided superior long-term glycaemic control compared to IGlar, with similar FPG and doses and numerically lower rates of overall and nocturnal hypoglycaemia (p=NS).

UI  - 23551992
TI  - Improvement of the metabolic syndrome profile by soluble fibre - guar gum - in patients with type 2 diabetes: a randomised clinical trial.
AB  - A diet rich in fibre seems to protect against the metabolic syndrome (MetS), but there is scarce information about the role of fibre intake in patients with the MetS and diabetes. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the effects of soluble fibre from partially hydrolysed guar gum (PHGG) on the MetS and cardiovascular risk factors in patients with type 2 diabetes. In the present randomised controlled clinical trial, forty-four patients with type 2 diabetes (males 386 %, age 62 (SD 9) years, diabetes duration 142 (SD 96) years) and the MetS underwent clinical, laboratory and dietary evaluations at baseline, 4 and 6 weeks. All patients followed their usual diet and the intervention group (n 23) received an additional 10 g/d of PHGG. In the intervention group, waist circumference (WC), glycated Hb (HbA1c), 24 h urinary albumin excretion (UAE) and serum trans-fatty acids (FA) were reduced in comparison with baseline after 4 and 6 weeks: WC 1035 (SD 95) to 1021 (SD 10) to 1023 (SD 97) cm; HbA1c 688 (SD 099) to 664 (SD 094) to 657 (SD 084) %; 24 h UAE 68 (interquartile range 30-175) to 45 (interquartile range 30-105) to 62 (interquartile range 30-95) mg; trans-FA 71 (interquartile range 46-137) to 67 (interquartile range 48-98) to 57 (interquartile range 30-110) mg/l (P< 005 for all). The only change in the control group was weight reduction: 770 (SD 135) to 762 (SD 133) to 761 (SD 134) kg (P= 0005). Other MetS components (blood pressure, TAG, HDL-cholesterol, fasting plasma glucose), total and LDL-cholesterol, C-reactive protein and endothelin-1 did not change in either group. In patients with type 2 diabetes and the MetS, the addition of PHGG to the usual diet improved cardiovascular and metabolic profiles by reducing WC, HbA1c, UAE and trans-FA.

UI  - 23551925
TI  - The once-daily human GLP-1 analogue liraglutide impacts appetite and energy intake in patients with type 2 diabetes after short-term treatment.
AB  - The aim was to investigate effects of liraglutide on appetite and energy intake in a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, crossover study. Eighteen subjects with type 2 diabetes were assigned to treatment with once-daily subcutaneous liraglutide (increasing by weekly 0.6mg increments) or placebo for 3weeks. Appetite ratings were assessed using visual analogue scales during a 5-h meal test. Energy and macronutrient intake during the subsequent ad libitum lunch were also measured. After 3weeks, mean postprandial and minimum hunger ratings were significantly lower with liraglutide 1.8mg than placebo (p<0.01), and the mean overall appetite score was significantly higher (p=0.05), indicating reduced appetite. Liraglutide was associated with higher maximum fullness ratings (p=0.001) and lower minimum ratings of prospective food consumption (p=0.01). Mean estimated energy intake was 18% lower for liraglutide than placebo [estimated ratio 0.82 (95% CI 0.73;0.94); p=0.004], but no significant differences in macronutrient distribution were noted. Findings suggest that reduced appetite and energy intake may contribute to liraglutide-induced weight loss.

UI  - 23551856
TI  - Effect of pioglitazone on body composition and bone density in subjects with prediabetes in the ACT NOW trial.
AB  - Pioglitazone increased peripheral fat more than truncal fat and decreased BMD in several regions of the body.

UI  - 23551727
TI  - Effects of add-on nebivolol on blood pressure and glucose parameters in hypertensive patients with prediabetes.
AB  - In this multicenter trial, the effects of nebivolol added to an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor or angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) were assessed in patients with hypertension (diastolic blood pressure [DBP] 80-110mmHg) and prediabetes (fasting blood glucose 100-125mg/dL and/or 2-hour oral glucose tolerance test [OGTT] 140-199mg/dL). After a 4-week run-in period (in which lisinopril [10mg/d] or losartan [50mg/d] treatment was initiated), patients with DBP 90-110mmHg were randomized (2:2:1) to 12-week, double-blind treatment with nebivolol (n=223; 5-40mg/d), hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ; n=212; 12.5-25mg/d), or placebo (n=102), titrated to achievement of 130/80mmHg. The primary outcome measure was DBP (last observation carried forward, intent to treat population); secondary measures included systolic blood pressure (SBP) and glucose levels. At baseline, overall mean values for body mass index, triglycerides, and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol were 32.3kg/m(2) , 1.7mmol/L, and 1.3mmol/L, respectively. At week 12, nebivolol and placebo groups demonstrated a decrease of -9.4 and -5.0mmHg, respectively (P<.001) for DBP and -10.4 and -7.8mmHg for SBP (P=.147). The mean changes in area under the curve OGTT were 0.0mg/dL (nebivolol), 6.9mg/dL (HCTZ; P=.024 vs nebivolol), and -1.0mg/dL (placebo). Adverse event-related discontinuation rates were 10.3%, 6.6%, and 2.0%, respectively. Nebivolol, added to an ACE inhibitor or ARB, provides additional blood pressure reduction with little or no effect on glucose metabolism in hypertensive patients with prediabetes.

UI  - 23548123
TI  - Effects of zishentongluo in patients with early-stage diabetic nephropathy.
AB  - The purpose of this study was to assess the efficacy of zishentongluo (ZSTL) for the treatment of diabetic nephropathy (DN) and its related mechanisms. Forty-five patients with DN were randomized to receive either ZSTL (n = 25) or benazepril (n = 20), an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor, for 12 weeks. Conventional biochemical tests were performed to determine fasting blood glucose (FBG), glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c), serum creatinine (SCr), endogenous creatinine clearance rate (Ccr), total cholesterol (TC), and triglyceride (TG) levels. The urinary albumin excretion rate (UAER), and endothelin 1 (ET-1), and atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) levels were determined with a radioimmunoassay, and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) was detected using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. The primary endpoint was change from the baseline to post-treatment in HbA1c. Secondary endpoints were change from baseline to post-treatment in FBG, TC, TG, UAER, SCr, Ccr, VI-C, ANP, ET-1, and VEGF. ZSTL was significantly more effective at improving the primary (i.e., HbA1c) and secondary (i.e., FBG, TC, TG, UAER, SCr, ANP, ET-1, and VEGF) outcomes than benazepril (p < 0.05). These findings suggest that ZSTL is superior to benazepril at improving the metabolic and renal functioning in patients with early-stage DN, in part, by modifying ANP, ET-1, and VEGF.

UI  - 23547788
TI  - Efficacy and safety of Elaeis guineensis and Ficus deltoidea leaf extracts in adults with pre-diabetes.
AB  - These results suggest that the leaf extracts of E. guineensis and F. deltoidea may have positive effects on glucose and lipid levels and are safe for use in humans. Further study is required to determine the maximum effective dosages and the mechanisms of action.

UI  - 23545707
TI  - Effect of losartan on prevention and progression of early diabetic nephropathy in American Indians with type 2 diabetes.
AB  - Angiotensin receptor blockers are renoprotective in hypertensive azotemic patients with type 2 diabetes, but their efficacy in early diabetic kidney disease is uncertain. We performed a 6-year randomized clinical trial in 169 American Indians with type 2 diabetes and normoalbuminuria (albumin/creatinine ratio [ACR] <30 mg/g; n = 91) or microalbuminuria (ACR 30-299 mg/g; n = 78) at baseline. The primary outcome was decline in glomerular filtration rate (GFR) to 60 mL/min or to half the baseline value in subjects who entered with GFR <120 mL/min. Another outcome was differences in glomerular structure at end of treatment. Subjects received 100 mg losartan or placebo daily. GFR was measured annually; 111 subjects underwent kidney biopsies. Only nine subjects reached the GFR outcome, and the unadjusted hazard ratio (losartan vs. placebo) was 0.50 (95% CI, 0.12-1.99). Differences in mesangial fractional volume were not estimated in the combined albuminuria groups because of an interaction with treatment assignment. In separate analyses, mesangial fractional volume was lower in subjects treated with losartan in the microalbuminuria group (18.8 vs. 25.6%; P = 0.02), but not in the normoalbuminuria group (19.6 vs. 17.8%; P = 0.86). Treatment with losartan may preserve some features of kidney structure in American Indians with type 2 diabetes and microalbuminuria.

UI  - 23529570
TI  - [Dapagliflozin versus glipizide as add-on therapy in patients with type 2 diabetes who have inadequate glycemic control with metformin].
AB  - Despite similar 52-week glycemic efficacy, dapagliflozin reduced weight and produced less hypoglycemia than glipizide in type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled with metformin. Long-term studies are required to further evaluate genital and urinary tract infections with SGLT2 inhibitors.

UI  - 23529568
TI  - [Long-term efficacy of dapagliflozin in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus receiving high doses of insulin].
AB  - Dapagliflozin improves glycemic control, stabilizes insulin dosing, and reduces weight without increasing major hypoglycemic episodes in patients with inadequately controlled type 2 diabetes mellitus.

UI  - 23529567
TI  - [Effect of dapagliflozin in patients with type 2 diabetes who have inadequate glycaemic control with glimepiride].
AB  - Dapagliflozin added to glimepiride in patients with T2DM uncontrolled on sulphonylurea monotherapy significantly improved HbA1c, reduced weight and was generally well tolerated, although events suggestive of genital infections were reported more often in patients receiving dapagliflozin.

UI  - 23544200
TI  - Ranibizumab for edema of the macula in diabetes study: 3-year outcomes and the need for prolonged frequent treatment.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier:NCT00407381

UI  - 23540819
TI  - Association between statin use and lipid status in quality improvement initiatives: statin use, a potential surrogate?
AB  - An association exists between statin use and LDL control in the real world of primary care practices undergoing quality improvement. Additional studies are necessary to ultimately test the validity of statin use as a process measure and/or surrogate for LDL-cholesterol control.

UI  - 23540483
TI  - Influence of chronic comorbidity and medication on the efficacy of treatment in patients with diabetes in general practice.
AB  - The presence of some comorbid diseases or drug use can impede the efficacy of treatment for type 2 diabetes. This finding supports the need to develop treatment recommendations, taking into account the presence of both chronic comorbidity and comedication. Further research must be undertaken to ascertain the effect other combinations of chronic diseases have on the efficacy of treatment of this and other diseases.

UI  - 23537603
TI  - Cardiovascular risk factors and complications associated with albuminuria and impaired renal function in insulin-treated diabetes.
AB  - Albuminuria and impaired renal function are prevalent in type 1 and insulin-treated type 2 diabetes. Albuminuria, but also normoalbuminuric renal impairment, is associated with micro- and macrovascular complications.

UI  - 23537418
TI  - Insulin pump-long-term effects on glycemic control: an observational study at 10 diabetes clinics in Sweden.
AB  - Use of CSII in clinical practice in Sweden is associated with an approximately 0.2% (2 mmol/mol) reduction in HbA1c after 5 years.

UI  - 23537417
TI  - Experiences of continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion in pregnant women with type 1 diabetes during delivery from four Italian centers: a retrospective observational study.
AB  - CSII is possible and safe in different types of delivery in selected and educated women. RT-CGM helps to obtain better outcomes in terms of maternal peripartum CBG level.

UI  - 23536584
TI  - Efficacy and safety of lixisenatide once-daily morning or evening injections in type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled on metformin (GetGoal-M).
AB  - In patients with type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled on metformin, lixisenatide 20 g once daily administered in the morning or evening significantly improved glycemic control, with a pronounced postprandial effect, and was well tolerated.

UI  - 23536583
TI  - The effect of intensive glucose lowering on lipoprotein particle profiles and inflammatory markers in the Veterans Affairs Diabetes Trial (VADT).
AB  - INT was associated with improved adiponectin, lipid levels, and a favorable shift in LDL and HDL subfractions after 9 months. These data suggest that the failure of INT to lower cardiovascular outcomes occurred despite generally favorable changes in standard and novel risk factors early in the study.

UI  - 23535223
TI  - Kidney-protective effects of azelnidipine versus a diuretic in combination with olmesartan in hypertensive patients with diabetes and albuminuria: a randomized study.
AB  - Azelnidipine is equally effective as a thiazide diuretic in reducing urinary albumin when used in combination with olmesartan.

UI  - 23534498
TI  - Gastric emptying of solids and its relationship with microalbuminuria in children and adolescents with type 1 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - Progression of delayed gastric emptying is more likely to be related to a longer duration of diabetes than glycemic control in children and adolescents with T1DM. Patients with delayed gastric emptying are thinner compared with patients with a normal rate of gastric emptying; they may also be asymptomatic.

UI  - 23533232
TI  - Optimal macronutrient content of the diet for adolescents with prediabetes; RESIST a randomised control trial.
AB  - These results are in contrast with our hypothesis that adolescents randomized to the increased protein diet would have better outcomes. Further strategies are required to better address prediabetes and clinical features of insulin resistance in adolescents.

UI  - 23532298
TI  - Early management of type 2 diabetes based on a SMBG strategy: the way to diabetes regression--the St Carlos study : a 3-year, prospective, randomized, clinic-based, interventional study with parallel groups.
AB  - The aims are to define the regression rate in newly diagnosed type 2 diabetes after lifestyle intervention and pharmacological therapy based on a SMBG (self-monitoring of blood glucose) strategy in routine practice as compared to standard HbA1c-based treatment and to assess whether a supervised exercise program has additional effects. St Carlos study is a 3-year, prospective, randomized, clinic-based, interventional study with three parallel groups. Hundred and ninety-five patients were randomized to the SMBG intervention group [I group; n = 130; Ia: SMBG (n = 65) and Ib: SMBG + supervised exercise (n = 65)] and to the HbA1c control group (C group) (n = 65). The primary outcome was to estimate the regression rate of type 2 diabetes (HbA1c <6 % on metformin treatment). After 3 years of follow-up, diabetes regression was achieved by 56 patients, 6 (9.2 %) from the C group, 21 (32.3 %) from the Ia group and 29 (44.6 %) from the Ib group. RR (95 % CI) for diabetes regression in the intervention group (Ia + Ib) was 4.5 (2.1-9); p < 0.001 and remained after stratification by gender, age and BMI. This difference was associated with healthier changes in lifestyle and greater weight loss. RR for a weight loss >4 kg was 3.6 (1.8-7); p < 0.001. This study shows that the use of SMBG in an educational program effectively increases the regression rate in newly diagnosed type 2 diabetic patients after 3 years of follow-up. These data suggest that SMBG-based programs should be extended to primary care settings where diabetic patients are usually attended.

UI  - 23531118
TI  - Alogliptin versus glipizide monotherapy in elderly type 2 diabetes mellitus patients with mild hyperglycaemia: a prospective, double-blind, randomized, 1-year study.
AB  - Alogliptin monotherapy maintained glycaemic control comparable to that of glipizide in elderly patients with T2DM over 1year of treatment, with substantially lower risk of hypoglycaemia and without weight gain.

UI  - 23530577
TI  - Real-time continuous glucose monitoring systems in the classroom/school environment.
AB  - Our study suggests that RT-CGM is useful and not disruptive in the classroom/school environment. The development of education materials for teachers could further increase its acceptance in the classroom/school environment.

UI  - 23530576
TI  - A prospective, randomized, open-label study comparing the efficacy and safety of preprandial and prandial insulin in combination with acarbose in elderly, insulin-requiring patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - The absence of a significant difference in glucose variability between Groups B and C suggests that the addition of acarbose permitted adjustment of the insulin administration time from 30min before meals to immediately before meals-which may be more convenient for patients-without affecting glycemic control.

UI  - 23529993
TI  - Omega-3 fatty acids improve glucose metabolism without effects on obesity values and serum visfatin levels in women with polycystic ovary syndrome.
AB  - Omega-3 fatty acids improved insulin sensitivity in PCOS patients. This beneficial effect was not associated with alteration in anthropometric measurements and serum visfatin levels.

UI  - 23528647
TI  - Direct healthcare costs and clinical outcomes after insulin initiation in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus in Spain: 24-month follow-up data from the INSTIGATE study.
AB  - Clinical parameters of these patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus improved following insulin initiation. After a temporary increase, direct healthcare costs of diabetes care returned to baseline values at the end of the follow-up period.

UI  - 23525426
TI  - Dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitors attenuate endothelial function as evaluated by flow-mediated vasodilatation in type 2 diabetic patients.
AB  - URL: http://center.umin.ac.jp, Unique Identifiers: UMIN000005682 (sitagliptin versus voglibose) and UMIN000005681 (sitagliptin versus alogliptin).

UI  - 23524525
TI  - Ultrasonography modifications of visceral and subcutaneous adipose tissue after pioglitazone or glibenclamide therapy combined with rosuvastatin in type 2 diabetic patients not well controlled by metformin.
AB  - Pioglitazone was more effective than glibenclamide in improving inflammation and hepatic steatosis indices.

UI  - 23524173
TI  - Randomized trial of metformin vs insulin in the management of gestational diabetes.
AB  - Metformin was found to provide adequate glycemic control with lower mean glucose levels throughout the day, less weight gain and a lower frequency of neonatal hypoglycemia. Logistic regression analysis showed that gestational age at diagnosis and mean pretreatment glucose level were predictors of the need for supplemental insulin therapy in women initially treated with metformin.

UI  - 23523454
TI  - Clinical outcome of patients with and without diabetes mellitus after percutaneous coronary intervention with the resolute zotarolimus-eluting stent: 2-year results from the prospectively pooled analysis of the international global RESOLUTE program.
AB  - The R-ZES is safe and effective in patients with diabetes. Long-term clinical data of patients with noninsulin-treated diabetes are equivalent to patients without diabetes. Patients with insulin-treated diabetes remain a higher risk subset. (The Medtronic RESOLUTE Clinical Trial; NCT00248079; Randomized, Two-arm, Non-inferiority Study Comparing Endeavor-Resolute Stent With Abbot Xience-V Stent [RESOLUTE-AC]; NCT00617084; The Medtronic RESOLUTE US Clinical Trial (R-US); NCT00726453; RESOLUTE International Registry: Evaluation of the Resolute Zotarolimus-Eluting Stent System in a 'Real-World' Patient Population [R-Int]; NCT00752128; RESOLUTE Japan-The Clinical Evaluation of the MDT-4107 Drug-Eluting Coronary Stent [RJ]; NCT00927940).

UI  - 23522730
TI  - Accuracy assessment of online glucose monitoring by a subcutaneous enzymatic glucose sensor during exercise in patients with type 1 diabetes treated by continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion.
AB  - Blood glucose changes during intensive physical-exercise bouts performed by CSII-treated type 1 diabetes patients can be estimated with acceptable clinical accuracy by online CGM.

UI  - 23522341
TI  - Importance of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol control during pravastatin treatment in hypercholesterolemic Japanese with type 2 diabetes mellitus: a post hoc analysis of MEGA study.
AB  - To investigate the role of HDL-C in cardiovascular risk reduction, we evaluated using data from a diabetic population in a large clinical trial with pravastatin. A significant risk reduction in CVD was found only in diabetic patients who had both a reduction in LDL-C and an increase in HDL-C.

UI  - 23522182
TI  - Dose-ranging study with the glucokinase activator AZD1656 as monotherapy in Japanese patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - Although initially favourable plasma glucose reductions were observed, there was a loss of effect over time with sustained AZD1656 treatment. The study design did not allow an evaluation of the reasons for this lack of long-term efficacy.

UI  - 23522121
TI  - Treatment of patients with type 2 diabetes with exenatide once weekly versus oral glucose-lowering medications or insulin glargine: achievement of glycemic and cardiovascular goals.
AB  - NCT00637273, NCT00641056, NCT00676338.

UI  - 23521816
TI  - Predicting erythropoietin resistance in hemodialysis patients with type 2 diabetes.
AB  - The study was registered at the German medical authority (BfArM; registration number 401 3206). The sponsor protocol ID and clinical trial unique identified number was CT-981-423-239. The results of the study are published and available at http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16034009.

UI  - 23521532
TI  - Effect of dietary protein on post-prandial glucose in patients with type 1 diabetes.
AB  - We found no effect of dietary protein on post-prandial-, overnight- or late-night glucose levels in patients with type 1 diabetes. This confirms that dietary proteins need not be included in the calculation of prandial insulin dose.

UI  - 23521323
TI  - Linagliptin is more effective than glimepiride at achieving a composite outcome of target HbAc < 7% with no hypoglycaemia and no weight gain over 2 years.
AB  - Linagliptin treatment for 104 weeks was recently reported to achieve non-inferior glucose-lowering effects compared with glimepiride in patients with type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled with metformin. Additional analyses from this randomised, active-controlled, double-blind trial have been performed in individuals completing the study on study drug without requiring rescue therapy. In this population, significantly more patients receiving linagliptin achieved HbA1c < 7% without hypoglycaemia and without body weight gain after 2 years compared with those receiving glimepiride (54% and 23%, respectively; odds ratio of 3.9, 95% confidence interval 2.6-5.7, p < 0.0001).

UI  - 23520132
TI  - Effects of prior intensive versus conventional therapy and history of glycemia on cardiac function in type 1 diabetes in the DCCT/EDIC.
AB  - Intensive diabetes therapy reduces the prevalence of coronary calcification and progression of atherosclerosis and the risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) events in the Diabetes Control and Complications Trial (DCCT)/Epidemiology of Diabetes Interventions and Complications (EDIC) study. The effects of intensive therapy on measures of cardiac function and structure and their association with glycemia have not been explored in type 1 diabetes (T1DM). We assess whether intensive treatment compared with conventional treatment during the DCCT led to differences in these parameters during EDIC. After 6.5 years of intensive versus conventional therapy in the DCCT, and 15 years of additional follow-up in EDIC, left ventricular (LV) indices were measured by cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) imaging in 1,017 of the 1,371 members of the DCCT cohort. There were no differences between the DCCT intensive versus conventional treatment in end diastolic volume (EDV), end systolic volume, stroke volume (SV), cardiac output (CO), LV mass, ejection fraction, LV mass/EDV, or aortic distensibility (AD). Mean DCCT/EDIC HbA1c over time was associated with EDV, SV, CO, LV mass, LV mass/EDV, and AD. These associations persisted after adjustment for CVD risk factors. Cardiac function and remodeling in T1DM assessed by CMR in the EDIC cohort was associated with prior glycemic exposure, but there was no effect of intensive versus conventional treatment during the DCCT on cardiac parameters.

UI  - 23517793
TI  - Efficacy of vildagliptin on glucose fluctuation in Japanese type 2 diabetic patients with ongoing sulfonylurea based oral glycemic agent therapy.
AB  - Vildagliptin when added to ongoing SU based OHA therapy for 12 weeks significantly improved glycemic fluctuation as well as glycemic control in Japanese patients with T2DM.

UI  - 23517786
TI  - Botulinum toxin for meralgia paresthetica in type 2 diabetes.
AB  - Botulinum toxin has been used for a variety of neuropathic conditions in diabetes mellitus. Meralgia paresthetica is a mononeuropathy of femoral nerve seen in diabetes and obesity with an unclear etiopathogenesis. We studied the role of botulinum toxin in resistant cases of meralgia paresthetica in type 2 diabetes.

UI  - 23517449
TI  - Faster pharmacokinetics and increased patient acceptance of intradermal insulin delivery using a single hollow microneedle in children and adolescents with type 1 diabetes.
AB  - In this study, intradermal insulin delivery using a single, hollow microneedle device resulted in less insertion pain and faster insulin onset and offset in children and adolescents with T1DM. A reduction in pain might improve compliance with insulin delivery. The faster onset and offset times of insulin action may enable closed-loop insulin therapy.
