
UI  - 24876263
TI  - Migraine, white matter hyperintensities, and subclinical brain infarction in a diverse community: the northern Manhattan study.
AB  - Migraine may be a risk factor for subclinical brain infarction. Prospective studies are needed in race/ethnically diverse populations.

UI  - 24741688
TI  - One-day behavioral intervention in depressed migraine patients: effects on headache.
AB  - A 1-day ACT-ED workshop targeting psychological flexibility may convey benefit for patients with comorbid migraine and depression.These pilot study findings merit further investigation using a more rigorously designed large-scale trial.

UI  - 24685971
TI  - Double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover study of early-intervention with sumatriptan 85/naproxen sodium 500 in (truly) episodic migraine: what's neck pain got to do with it?
AB  - Our study results support a fundamental re-evaluation of the role of neck pain in migraine.

UI  - 24574436
TI  - Enhanced depth imaging optical coherence tomography of the choroid in migraine patients: implications for the association of migraine and glaucoma.
AB  - Choroidal thickness was found to be significantly increased in migraine patients during the attack period when compared to basal levels. The possible implications of this finding on the association between migraine and glaucoma are discussed.

UI  - 24529619
TI  - Headache and migraine in children with sickle cell disease are associated with lower hemoglobin and higher pain event rates but not silent cerebral infarction.
AB  - Recurrent headaches and migraines are common and undertreated in children with sickle cell disease. Low hemoglobin levels and high pain rates are associated with recurrent headaches and migraines; whereas, silent cerebral infarction is not.

UI  - 24523483
TI  - Randomized trial of IV valproate vs metoclopramide vs ketorolac for acute migraine.
AB  - This study provides Class I evidence that in ED patients with acute migraine, IV valproate is inferior to metoclopramide or ketorolac in improving headache outcomes.

UI  - 24501094
TI  - Investigation of the pathophysiological mechanisms of migraine attacks induced by pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide-38.
AB  - Pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide-38 (PACAP38) and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide are structurally and functionally closely related but show differences in migraine-inducing properties. Mechanisms responsible for the difference in migraine induction are unknown. Here, for the first time, we present a head-to-head comparison study of the immediate and long-lasting observations of the migraine-inducing, arterial, physiological and biochemical responses comparing PACAP38 and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide. In a double-blind crossover study 24 female migraine patients without aura were randomly allocated to intravenous infusion of PACAP38 (10 pmol/kg/min) or vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (8 pmol/kg/min) over 20 min. We recorded incidence of migraine during and after infusion (0-24 h). Magnetic resonance angiography of selected extra- and intracranial arteries, blood samples (plasma PACAP38 and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and serum tryptase), and vital signs (blood pressure, heart rate, respiratory frequency, and end-tidal pressure of CO2) was recorded before and up to 5 h after infusion. Twenty-two patients [mean age 24 years (range 19-36)] completed the study on both days. Sixteen patients (73%) reported migraine-like attacks after PACAP38 and four after vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (18%) infusion (P = 0.002). Three of four patients, who reported migraine-like attacks after vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, also reported attacks after PACAP38. Both peptides induced marked dilatation of the extracranial (P < 0.05), but not intracranial arteries (P > 0.05). PACAP38-induced vasodilatation was longer lasting (>2 h), whereas vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-induced dilatation was normalized after 2 h. We recorded elevated plasma PACAP38 at 1 h after the start of PACAP38 infusion only in those patients who later reported migraine attacks. Blood levels of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and tryptase were unchanged after PACAP38 infusion. In conclusion, PACAP38-induced migraine was associated with sustained dilatation of extracranial arteries and elevated plasma PACAP38 before onset of migraine-like attacks. PACAP38 has a much higher affinity for the PAC1 receptor and we therefore suggest that migraine induction by PACAP38 may be because of activation of the PAC1 receptor, which may be a future anti-migraine drug target.

UI  - 24458873
TI  - Relationships between epistaxis, migraines, and triggers in hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia.
AB  - 4.

UI  - 24450487
TI  - Extended cycle combined oral contraceptives and prophylactic frovatriptan during the hormone-free interval in women with menstrual-related migraines.
AB  - Extended combined oral contraceptive regimen reduces MRM severity. Frovatriptan prevents headaches during HFIs, but is associated with new headache symptoms when withdrawn.

UI  - 24368463
TI  - Cognitive behavioral therapy plus amitriptyline for chronic migraine in children and adolescents: a randomized clinical trial.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00389038.

UI  - 24330707
TI  - Frovatriptan and rizatriptan economic EVAluation: the FREEVA study.
AB  - 2006-002572-17 (EudraCT).

UI  - 24288101
TI  - [Personality traits in patients with migraine: a multi-centre study using the Salamanca screening questionnaire].
AB  - Some of the personality traits that can be detected with the Salamanca questionnaire are very common in patients with migraine. In our series, the anankastic trait is related with the presence of chronic migraine.

UI  - 24201237
TI  - Levetiracetam in migraine prophylaxis: a randomized placebo-controlled study in a rural medical institute in northern India.
AB  - Compared with the placebo group, LEV offers improvement in headache frequency and severity as well as it lowers the requirement for other symptomatic drugs in adult migraine patients.

UI  - 24182419
TI  - Promethazine plus sumatriptan in the treatment of migraine: a randomized clinical trial.
AB  - This is the first prospective clinical trial to demonstrate that multimechanism therapy for migraine, combining a triptan and an antiemetic agent, is well tolerated and offers improved clinical benefits compared with monotherapy.

UI  - 24171182
TI  - Treatment of comorbid migraine and temporomandibular disorders: a factorial, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled study.
AB  - In women with TMD and migraine, migraine significantly improved only when both conditions were treated. The best treatment choice for TMD pain in women with migraine is yet to be defined.

UI  - 24107267
TI  - OnabotulinumtoxinA for chronic migraine: efficacy, safety, and tolerability in patients who received all five treatment cycles in the PREEMPT clinical program.
AB  - This subgroup analysis demonstrated improvements with onabotulinumtoxinA treatment (five cycles) vs placebo (two cycles)/onabotulinumtoxinA (three cycles) for multiple headache symptom measures and suggests that at Week 56, patients treated earlier with onabotulinumtoxinA had better outcomes. These findings demonstrate the continued need and cumulative benefit over time with continued prophylaxis, an important and clinically pragmatic observation for clinicians and patients.

UI  - 24102349
TI  - Relationship between daily mood and migraine in children.
AB  - Results of this study lend support to a complex relationship between mood and headache in children with migraine. More research is needed to further elucidate the temporal nature of this relationship within a given day and over an extended period of time.

UI  - 24088805
TI  - Efficacy and safety of topiramate in migraine prophylaxis: an open controlled randomized study comparing Sincronil and topamax formulations.
AB  - In conclusion, in this study Topamax (reference product) and Sincronil (generic formulation) have proven therapeutically equivalent and both products were well tolerated.

UI  - 24081889
TI  - [A comparative study of the effectiveness of topiramate and flunarizine in independent series of chronic migraine patients without medication abuse].
AB  - Flunarizine proved to be as effective as topiramate in the treatment of chronic migraine without medication abuse.

UI  - 24061769
TI  - Vestibular rehabilitation outcomes in patients with and without vestibular migraine.
AB  - Vestibular rehabilitation programs do appear to play a beneficial role in the treatment of dizziness in patients with vestibular migraine. Anecdotally, however, patients with vestibular migraine may report persistent significant symptoms at the end of a standard treatment period where other non-migrainous patients are accomplishing their treatment goals. Therefore, the objective of this study was to assess the efficacy of vestibular rehabilitation in patients with vestibular migraine compared to patients with vestibular symptoms without migraine. Thirty-six patients (vestibular migraine = 20, vestibular impairment = 16) with significant daily vestibular symptoms received a nine week customized vestibular rehabilitation program. Each subject attended five therapy appointments occurring at initial, two, five, nine and six months. A range of subjective and physical performance outcome measures were taken at baseline, nine weeks and six months. The vestibular migraine group showed poorer subjective performance at the onset of therapy, which was not reflected in the difference in physical performance between the groups. Both groups benefitted equally from rehabilitation. The same degree of improvement was observed in the migraine group regardless of medication regime. This study has validated vestibular rehabilitation as an effective treatment in dizzy patients both with and without vestibular migraine where the use of medication did not preclude benefit from therapy. However, further research is required to clarify the role of specific vestibular suppressant medications and the scheduling of their use in relation to physical therapy.

UI  - 24021029
TI  - SumaRT/Nap vs naproxen sodium in treatment and disease modification of migraine: a pilot study.
AB  - Naproxen sodium, when used as a sole acute treatment early in attacks, appears to reduce the frequency of headache days and migraine attacks for a select number of subjects over a 3-month period. SumaRT/Nap is more effective at 2-hour headache reduction than naproxen sodium alone, but has less impact on reducing attack frequency or the number of headache days. Both treatments were well tolerated, and there was no convincing evidence that either medication led to MOH.

UI  - 24020994
TI  - Treatment of chronic migraine: a 3-month comparator study of naproxen sodium vs SumaRT/Nap.
AB  - A combination of SumaRT/Nap (group A) did not appear to reduce migraine headache frequency over a 3-month period. Subjects using naproxen sodium (group B) alone and completing the study per protocol had a marked statistically significant reduction in migraine headache days. Both groups completing the study per protocol had experienced clinically meaningful 2-hour headache relief. This suggests there may be a subset of patients with chronic migraine that are responsive to high doses of naproxen as an acute intervention with a significant prophylactic benefit. Subjects randomized to SumaRT/Nap experience benefit, primarily as an acute intervention. This hypothesis may warrant future larger scale clinical trials. Frequent dosing of SumaRT/Nap or naproxen sodium was well tolerated in this study.

UI  - 24006671
TI  - [Optimized schemes for acupuncture treatment of migraine during attack].
AB  - Manual acupuncture stimulation of the local + distal body acupoints combined with otopoint-EA and bloodletting at Taiyang (EX-HN 5) + Ashi points is the best option for relieving migraine during attack.

UI  - 23992516
TI  - Impact of NSAID and Triptan use on developing chronic migraine: results from the American Migraine Prevalence and Prevention (AMPP) study.
AB  - Triptan use in EM is associated with an increased risk of CM onset that increases with days of medication use. For NSAIDs, effects depend on headache days per month. NSAIDs are protective in individuals with less than 10 headache days per month but associated with increased risk with 10 or more headache days per month. Combining a triptan and NSAID was not associated with a statistically significant increased risk of CM onset, whereas increased risk of CM onset was significantly associated with triptan monotherapy.

UI  - 23986425
TI  - Variability of the blink reflex in patients with migraine.
AB  - The inverse correlation between the frequency of attacks and the latency of R2 and R2' responses of the blink reflex confirms the abnormal eaxcitability induced by the high frequency of migraine attacks.

UI  - 23975906
TI  - In vivo quantification of calcitonin gene-related peptide receptor occupancy by telcagepant in rhesus monkey and human brain using the positron emission tomography tracer [11C]MK-4232.
AB  - Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) is a potent neuropeptide whose agonist interaction with the CGRP receptor (CGRP-R) in the periphery promotes vasodilation, neurogenic inflammation and trigeminovascular sensory activation. This process is implicated in the cause of migraine headaches, and CGRP-R antagonists in clinical development have proven effective in treating migraine-related pain in humans. CGRP-R is expressed on blood vessel smooth muscle and sensory trigeminal neurons and fibers in the periphery as well as in the central nervous system. However, it is not clear what role the inhibition of central CGRP-R plays in migraine pain relief. To this end, the CGRP-R positron emission tomography (PET) tracer [(11)C]MK-4232 (2-[(8R)-8-(3,5-difluorophenyl)-6,8-[6-(11)C]dimethyl-10-oxo-6,9-diazaspiro[4.5]decan-9-yl]-N-[(2R)-2'-oxospiro[1,3-dihydroindene-2,3'-1H-pyrrolo[2,3-b]pyridine]-5-yl]acetamide) was discovered and developed for use in clinical PET studies. In rhesus monkeys and humans, [(11)C]MK-4232 displayed rapid brain uptake and a regional brain distribution consistent with the known distribution of CGRP-R. Monkey PET studies with [(11)C]MK-4232 after intravenous dosing with CGRP-R antagonists validated the ability of [(11)C]MK-4232 to detect changes in CGRP-R occupancy in proportion to drug plasma concentration. Application of [(11)C]MK-4232 in human PET studies revealed that telcagepant achieved only low receptor occupancy at an efficacious dose (140 mg PO). Therefore, it is unlikely that antagonism of central CGRP-R is required for migraine efficacy. However, it is not known whether high central CGRP-R antagonism may provide additional therapeutic benefit.

UI  - 23963471
TI  - High-rate repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation in migraine prophylaxis: a randomized, placebo-controlled study.
AB  - Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) is an emerging treatment for pain but there is no class 1 study on its role in migraine prophylaxis. In this study we report the efficacy and safety of high-rate rTMS in migraine prophylaxis. Adult migraine patients having >4 attacks/month were randomized to high-rate rTMS or sham stimulation. Stimulation in the form of 10Hz rTMS, 600 pulses in 10 trains were delivered to the hot spot of the right abductor digiti minimi in 412s. Three sessions were delivered on alternate days. The outcome was defined at 1month. The primary outcome measures were reduction in headache frequency and severity >50% as assessed by the Visual Analogue Scale (VAS). The secondary outcome measures were functional disability, rescue medication and adverse events. Fifty patients each were randomized to rTMS or sham stimulation. The baseline characteristics of rTMS and sham stimulation groups were similar. At 1month, headache frequency (78.7 vs. 33.3%; P=0.0001) and VAS score (76.6 vs. 27.1%; P=0.0001) improved significantly in the patients receiving rTMS compared to those in the sham stimulation group. Functional disability also improved significantly in rTMS group (P=0.0001). Only one patient following rTMS developed transient drowsiness and was withdrawn from the study. This study provides evidence of the efficacy and safety of 10Hz rTMS in migraine prophylaxis.

UI  - 23926420
TI  - Assessing acute systemic effects of an inhaled drug with serial echocardiography: a placebo-controlled comparison of inhaled and intravenous dihydroergotamine.
AB  - These results indicate the effects 1 mg of orally inhaled DHE on the cardiovascular system are less than with 1 mg of IV DHE, and that serial echocardiography can be a useful noninvasive means of assessing acute systemic effects.

UI  - 23901394
TI  - Randomized controlled trial: targeted neck cooling in the treatment of the migraine patient.
AB  - Cold therapy has long been the number one self-care treatment employed for migraine without aura and the second most common for migraine with aura, yet its mechanism remains elusive. In this study, a mechanism by which this time-tested therapy works is proposed (by cooling the blood passing through intracranial vessels) in an attempt to further elucidate its beneficial effects. The study is designed as a randomized, controlled, crossover clinical trial utilizing an adjustable wrap containing two freezable ice packs targeting the carotid arteries at the neck, where they come close to the skin surface. Fifty-five participants successfully completed the study. Pain at onset, as recorded on a visual analog scale, was similar between the two treatment arms. Maximum pain reduction was observed at the 30 minute time point with a 31.8%  15.2% decrease in pain in the treatment arm compared to a 31.5%  20.0% increase in pain at the same time interval in the control arm. These findings confirm the application of a frozen neck wrap at onset of migraine headache targeting the carotid arteries at the neck significantly reduced recorded pain in participants with migraine headaches (P<.001).

UI  - 23897870
TI  - Cranial autonomic symptoms in pediatric migraine are the rule, not the exception.
AB  - In pediatric/adolescent migraine, the presence of cranial autonomic symptoms appears to be the rule rather than the exception. Clinicians should be careful to consider migraine when evaluating a child with headache and associated ocular or nasal symptoms so as to avoid giving a misdiagnosis of sinus headache.

UI  - 23894917
TI  - Oral magnesium; migraine prophylaxis.
AB  - 

UI  - 23886736
TI  - Effects of medical comorbidity on anxiety treatment outcomes in primary care.
AB  - Effectiveness of the anxiety intervention was not significantly affected by the presence of multiple CMCs; however, patients with migraine displayed less improvement at long-term follow-up. Trial Registration ClinicalTrials.com Identifier: NCT00347269.

UI  - 23879870
TI  - Examination of unmet treatment needs among persons with episodic migraine: results of the American Migraine Prevalence and Prevention (AMPP) Study.
AB  - In a population sample of individuals with EM, more than 40% have at least 1 unmet need in the area of acute treatment. The leading reasons for unmet needs, which include headache-related disability and dissatisfaction with current acute treatment, suggest opportunities for improving outcomes for persons with EM.

UI  - 23865122
TI  - Comparison of efficacy and safety of topiramate with gabapentin in migraine prophylaxis: randomized open label control trial.
AB  - Gabapentin appeared well tolerated in 30 (75%) patients compared to topiramate in 23(57.5%) patients. Both drugs were equally effective in migraine prophylaxis.

UI  - 23853566
TI  - Heart rate variability in sleep-related migraine without aura.
AB  - These findings indicate a peculiar modification of the autonomic balance during sleep in sleep-related migraine. The reduction of LF/HF ratio in NREM sleep was observed in controls, but it was quantitatively much more evident in migraineurs. Changes in LF/HF could be consequent to an autonomic unbalance which could manifest selectively (or alternatively become more evident) during sleep. These findings, together with the reduction in CAP rate, could be an expression of reduced arousability during sleep in patients with sleep-related migraine. The simultaneous involvement of the autonomic, arousal, and pain systems might suggest involvement of the hypothalamic pathways.

UI  - 23843470
TI  - What is a clinically relevant change on the HIT-6 questionnaire? An estimation in a primary-care population of migraine patients.
AB  - We determined the within-person MIC and between-group MID for the HIT-6 in a primary-care population of migraine patients. We recommend the use of these values for clinical care and for research.

UI  - 23843469
TI  - Prevalence of right-to-left shunts on transcranial Doppler in chronic migraine and medication-overuse headache.
AB  - RLS prevalence in CM is within the upper range of those reported in episodic migraine without aura or in the general population, and not higher in MOH. PFO is thus unlikely to have a significant causal role in these chronic headaches.

UI  - 23836335
TI  - [Vagus nerve stimulation in patients with migraine].
AB  - VNS could have beneficial effects for patients with migraine, especially in cases that are difficult to control. Due to the type of study, these conclusions must be taken with caution. Prospective clinical studies are needed before introducing the technique into daily clinical practice.

UI  - 23814173
TI  - Occipital nerve stimulation for intractable chronic cluster headache or migraine: a critical analysis of direct treatment costs and complications.
AB  - ONS for treatment of refractory CCH and CM is a cost-intensive treatment option with a significant complication rate. Nevertheless, patients with refractory primary headache disorders may experience substantial relief of pain attacks, and headache days, respectively.

UI  - 23808927
TI  - Migraine management in community pharmacies: practice patterns and knowledge of pharmacy personnel in Thailand.
AB  - A large number of community pharmacists and non-pharmacist staff had inappropriate practice behavior and understanding. Continuing education and interventions are important to improve the practice and knowledge of pharmacy personnel, particularly the pharmacists.

UI  - 23808666
TI  - Sex differences in the prevalence, symptoms, and associated features of migraine, probable migraine and other severe headache: results of the American Migraine Prevalence and Prevention (AMPP) Study.
AB  - In this large, US population sample, both migraine and PM were more common among females, but a sex difference was not observed in the prevalence of other severe headache. The sex difference in migraine and PM held true across age and for most other sociodemographic variables with the exception of race for PM. Females with migraine and PM had higher rates of most migraine symptoms, aura, greater associated impairment, and higher healthcare resource utilization than males. Corresponding sex differences were not observed among individuals with other severe headache on the majority of these comparisons. Results suggest that PM is part of the migraine spectrum whereas other severe headache types are not. Results also substantiate existing literature on sex differences in primary headaches and extend results to additional headache types and related factors.

UI  - 23798725
TI  - Lack of hemodynamic interaction between CGRP-receptor antagonist telcagepant (MK-0974) and sumatriptan: results from a randomized study in patients with migraine.
AB  - Telcagepant does not elevate mean MAP, and coadministration of telcagepant with sumatriptan results in elevations in MAP similar to those observed following administration of sumatriptan alone in migraineurs during the interictal period. When coadministered, telcagepant slightly increases the plasma levels of sumatriptan, but without an apparent clinically meaningful effect.

UI  - 23792072
TI  - Altered cortical activation in adolescents with acute migraine: a magnetoencephalography study.
AB  - This is the first study focusing on the spectral and spatial signatures of cortical dysfunction in adolescents with migraine using MEG signals in a frequency range of 5 to 2,884 Hz. This methodology analyzing aberrant brain activation may be important for developing new therapeutic interventions for migraine in the future.

UI  - 23790235
TI  - OnabotulinumtoxinA for treatment of chronic migraine: PREEMPT 24-week pooled subgroup analysis of patients who had acute headache medication overuse at baseline.
AB  - Acute headache medication overuse (MO) is common in patients with chronic migraine (CM). We evaluated safety and efficacy of onabotulinumtoxinA as preventive treatment of headache in CM patients with baseline MO (CM+MO) in a planned secondary analysis from two similarly designed, randomized, placebo-controlled, parallel, Phase III trials. Patients were randomized to treatment groups (155-195 U of onabotulinumtoxinA or placebo) using MO (patient-reported and diary-captured frequency of intake) as a stratifying variable. Of 1384 patients, 65.3% (n=904) met MO criteria (onabotulinumtoxinA: n=445, placebo: n=459). For the CM+MO subgroup at Week 24, statistically significant between-treatment group mean changes from baseline favoring onabotulinumtoxinA versus placebo were observed for headache days (primary endpoint: -8.2 vs. -6.2; p<0.001) and other secondary endpoints: frequencies of migraine days (p<0.001), moderate/severe headache days (p<0.001), cumulative headache hours on headache days (p<0.001), headache episodes (p=0.028), and migraine episodes (p=0.018) and the percentage of patients with severe Headache Impact Test-6 category (p<0.001). At Week 24, change from baseline in frequency of acute headache medication intakes (secondary endpoint) was not statistically significant (p=0.210) between groups, except for triptan intakes (p<0.001), where the onabotulinumtoxinA-treated group was favored. OnabotulinumtoxinA was effective and well tolerated as headache prophylaxis in CM+MO patients.

UI  - 23774304
TI  - Residual dizziness after successful repositioning maneuvers for idiopathic benign paroxysmal positional vertigo.
AB  - RD is mainly correlated with duration of vertigo in BPPV patients. Anxiety was demonstrated to play a role in increased body sways.

UI  - 23773016
TI  - A cross-sectional survey to assess the migraineur's medication decision-making beliefs: determining when a migraine is triptan-worthy.
AB  - Results build upon previously published studies and suggest that patient beliefs directly influence how migraineurs manage their migraines and have implications for patient outcomes. Such insights should be used to facilitate physician-patient communication and reinforce the need for patient-centered care to improve patient outcomes.

UI  - 23771848
TI  - Characteristic features of migraine in schoolchildren and adolescents and its relationship with autonomic nervous system disorders.
AB  - In children with migraine, our results demonstrate no abnormal ANS function related to either the sympathetic or the parasympathetic nervous system.

UI  - 23695075
TI  - Frovatriptan plus dexketoprofen in the treatment of menstrually related migraine: an open study.
AB  - At least 50 % of female migraineurs experience migraine associated with the perimenstrual period, even though they may also suffer from attacks at other times of the cycle (menstrually related migraine, MRM). MRM attacks tend to be longer and more intense than those arising in other phases of the menstrual cycle, and are often aggravated by more pronounced vegetative phenomena. In this open preliminary trial, we tested the efficacy of associating frovatriptan and dexketoprofen for the treatment of an acute attack of MRM, diagnosed according to the criteria of the International Headache Society, in 24 patients between 19 and 45 years of age (mean 31.33  7.33). Twenty-one of them completed the study. Pain relief was achieved by 76 % of patients at 2 h and by 86 % at 4 h. A pain-free state was achieved by 48 % at 2 h and by 62 % at 4 h from taking the product. A pain-free state at 24 h was present in 76 % of MRM sufferers, 33 % of whom showed a sustained pain-free state at 24 h. A rescue medication was needed by eight patients. While decidedly encouraging, the data of this study obviously need confirmation with double blind studies involving a greater number of patients.

UI  - 23695074
TI  - Outcome of patients with chronic migraine with medication overuse and depression after duloxetine: influence of coexisting obsessive compulsive disorder.
AB  - Patients with chronic migraine (CM) and medication overuse (MO) have high frequency of psychiatric comorbidity. Aims of this open label, prospective, independent study were: to evaluate the efficacy of duloxetine in a sample of patients with MO due to CM and with concomitant depression; to investigate, if the presence of OCD influences the outcome in this subgroup of patients. A total of 50 consecutive patients (40 F,10 M, aged 20-65 years, mean 39.4 years) from those attending our Headache Center to undergo an inpatient withdrawal programme followed by anti-migraine prophylaxis was enrolled. After a 1-month baseline period, all patients were prescribed duloxetine 30 mg in the morning for the first week, and 60 mg for the following 12 weeks. They filled a daily headache diary during the whole study period. They also completed Hamilton depression rating scale (HDRS) and migraine disability assessment scale (MIDAS) at baseline and at the 12-week follow-up. The primary outcome measure was the percentage of responders, i.e. of patients with a reduction 50 % in headache frequency as well as in symptomatic drug consumption. Comparison between patients with and without OCD was performed. Our results showed a rather high responder rate in the total sample (64 %), while none of the patients with OCD fell among responders. MIDAS and HDRS scores had a more evident decrease in patients without OSD. These findings suggest that duloxetine may be effective in patients with MO due to CM and with comorbid depression. They also confirm the importance of a systematic assessment of the psychopathological profile in these patients, and indicate that clinicians should be aware of the relevant prognostic role of OCD in favoring a poor outcome and persistent disability in headache patients with MO.

UI  - 23695072
TI  - Day-hospital withdrawal for chronic migraine with medication overuse: results at 3 years follow-up.
AB  - Patients with chronic headache and medication overuse are particularly difficult to treat, with no one approach being universally accepted. Some type of withdrawal program, however, is typically implemented before beginning a pharmacological prophylaxis treatment. Different withdrawal modalities have been performed for managing these patients: at first step, in-patient withdrawal has been confirmed effective in preceding clinical experiences. In recent years, new modalities for withdrawal have been developed as day-hospital setting. Purpose of this study was to determine the clinical course of a sample of chronic migraine patients with medication overuse 3 years after day-hospital withdrawal. A group of 202 patients were treated. Patients were suffering from chronic migraine with medication overuse according with IHS criteria. All patients were submitted to a day-hospital withdrawal and then they were followed with meetings every 3 months until the first year and then every 6 months until the last follow-up 3 years after withdrawal. Eighty patients achieved the last follow-up meeting 3 years after withdrawal. Patients clinically improved, significantly, both for days of headache per month and consumption of medications per month. From these results, the day-hospital setting for withdrawal, followed by periodic clinical meetings, seems to be effective for this category of patients to improve significantly at long-term headache frequency and analgesics intake.

UI  - 23695070
TI  - The efficacy of ginkgolide B in the acute treatment of migraine aura: an open preliminary trial.
AB  - In this open trial we evaluated the possible efficacy of Ginkgolide B in the treatment of acute aura in a group of patients suffering from migraine with aura, considering in particular the effect of the treatment on aura duration. Twenty-five patients (16 females, 9 males, mean age 39.7  13.5 years, range 18-65) suffering from migraine with aura were enrolled in the study. The diagnosis was made according to the diagnostic criteria of the international classification of headache disorders, second edition (ICHD-II), for typical aura with migraine headache (n = 19) or typical aura without headache (n = 6). Patients were asked to use a diary card to register the exact duration of the aura symptoms in two consecutive attacks of aura. In the first one, they only took note of the duration of neurological symptoms in minutes. In the following attack, they were instructed to take orally, immediately at the onset of the first symptoms of aura, two capsules of a combination of 60 mg Ginkgo biloba terpenes phytosome, 11 mg coenzyme Q 10 and 8.7 mg vitamin B2 (Migrasoll). Aura duration (expressed in minutes) was significantly (p < 0.001) reduced by Migrasoll intake, being 33.6  11.5 in the first untreated attack and 21.9  11.8 during the second attack. In general, there was a marked amelioration of the features of the neurological symptoms of aura in the treated attack. In four patients (18.1 %) suffering from typical aura with migraine, the pain phase disappeared. Among the patients who completed the study no serious adverse events were reported.

UI  - 23695040
TI  - Onabotulinum toxin A for treatment of chronic migraine with medication overuse.
AB  - Chronic migraine is a common and debilitating headache syndrome. Botulinum neurotoxin (BoNT), a potent toxin produced by the anaerobic bacterium Clostridium botulinum, used largely for treatment of disorders associated with increased muscle tone and hyperidrosis, has been recently used for patients suffering from chronic migraine. In this study, two groups of patients were treated with different dosages of BoNT A to verify the efficacy for chronic migraine. The results confirmed the efficacy of BoNT A when used at the dosage of 150 U. In the second group of patients treated with 100 U, results were not significant. Although these results are preliminary, they led to intense efforts to evaluate the analgesic properties of BoNT A and to assess their clinical applicability.

UI  - 23676003
TI  - Comparison of interictal vestibular function in vestibular migraine vs migraine without vertigo.
AB  - Vestibular abnormalities were present interictally among both VM and M patients, but were found about twice as frequently among VM patients. This may indicate that subclinical vestibular dysfunction is an integral part of migraine pathology in general, and not solely in VM.

UI  - 23673269
TI  - Prostaglandins and prostaglandin receptor antagonism in migraine.
AB  - Human models of headache may contribute to understanding of prostaglandins' role in migraine pathogenesis. The current thesis investigated the migraine triggering effect of prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) in migraine patients without aura, the efficacy of a novel EP4 receptor antagonist, BGC20-1531, in prevention of PGE2-induced headache and the ability of prostaglandin F2 (PGF2) to trigger headache without any vasodilatation in healthy volunteers. All studies were designed as double-blind, placebo-controlled, cross-over experiments, where PGE2/PGF2 or saline were infused over 20-25 min. In the study with EP4 receptor antagonist healthy volunteers were pre-treated with two different doses of BGC20-1531 or placebo followed by PGE2 infusion over 25 min. The headache data were collected during the whole study day, whereas the possible vascular changes were measured during the in-hospital phase of 1.5 h. The infusion of PGE2 caused the immediate migraine-like attacks and vasodilatation of the middle cerebral artery in migraine patients without aura. The highly specific and potent EP4 receptor antagonist, BGC20-1531, was not able to attenuate PGE2-induced headache and vasodilatation of both intra- and extra-cerebral arteries. The intravenous infusion of PGF2 did not induce headache or statistically significant vasoconstriction of cerebral arteries in healthy volunteers. Novel data on PGE2-provoked immediate migraine-like attacks suggest that PGE2 may be one of the important final products in the pathogenesis of migraine. The lack of efficacy of EP4 receptor antagonist suggests that a single receptor blockade is not sufficient to block PGE2 responses, hence EP2 receptor should be investigated as a potential drug target for the treatment of migraine. The absence of headache during the PGF2 infusion demonstrates that vasodilating properties are necessary for the induction of headache and migraine.

UI  - 23657930
TI  - Comparison between the efficacy of ginger and sumatriptan in the ablative treatment of the common migraine.
AB  - Frequency and torment caused by migraines direct patients toward a variety of remedies. Few studies to date have proposed ginger derivates for migraine relief. This study aims to evaluate the efficacy of ginger in the ablation of common migraine attack in comparison to sumatriptan therapy. In this double-blinded randomized clinical trial, 100 patients who had acute migraine without aura were randomly allocated to receive either ginger powder or sumatriptan. Time of headache onset, its severity, time interval from headache beginning to taking drug and patient self-estimation about response for five subsequent migraine attacks were recorded by patients. Patients(,) satisfaction from treatment efficacy and their willingness to continue it was also evaluated after 1month following intervention. Two hours after using either drug, mean headaches severity decreased significantly. Efficacy of ginger powder and sumatriptan was similar. Clinical adverse effects of ginger powder were less than sumatriptan. Patients' satisfaction and willingness to continue did not differ. The effectiveness of ginger powder in the treatment of common migraine attacks is statistically comparable to sumatriptan. Ginger also poses a better side effect profile than sumatriptan.

UI  - 23639189
TI  - Lippia alba (Mill.) N. E. Brown hydroethanolic extract of the leaves is effective in the treatment of migraine in women.
AB  - Treatment with L. alba leaves (geranial-carvenone) hydroethanolic extract is a cheap, safe, widely available, highly effective therapy to reduce both the intensity and the frequency of headache episodes of women with migraine. ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT01259947.

UI  - 23616159
TI  - Syncope and orthostatic intolerance increase risk of brain lesions in migraineurs and controls.
AB  - Frequent syncope, orthostatic intolerance, and migraine independently increase the risk of white matter lesions, particularly in females.

UI  - 23594167
TI  - Waning of "conditioned pain modulation": a novel expression of subtle pronociception in migraine.
AB  - Migraineurs have subtle deficits in endogenous pain modulation which requires a more challenging test protocol than the commonly used single CPM. Waning of CPM response seems to reveal this pronociceptive state. The clinical relevance of the CPM waning effect is highlighted by its association with clinical parameters of migraine.

UI  - 23594025
TI  - Childhood and Adolescent Migraine Prevention (CHAMP) study: a double-blinded, placebo-controlled, comparative effectiveness study of amitriptyline, topiramate, and placebo in the prevention of childhood and adolescent migraine.
AB  - The goal of the CHAMP study is to obtain level 1 evidence for the effectiveness of amitriptyline and topiramate in the prevention of migraine in children and adolescents. If this study proves to be positive, it will provide information to the practicing physician as how to best prevent migraine in children and adolescents and subsequently improve the disability and outcomes.

UI  - 23592105
TI  - Association between childhood migraine and history of infantile colic.
AB  - The presence of migraine in children and adolescents aged 6 to 18 years was associated with a history of infantile colic. Additional longitudinal studies are required.

UI  - 23586686
TI  - Intravenous topiramate: safety and pharmacokinetics following a single dose in patients with epilepsy or migraines taking oral topiramate.
AB  - A single 25-mg dose of intravenous topiramate caused minimal infusion site or systemic adverse effects in patients taking oral topiramate. Pharmacokinetic results show that oral topiramate is completely absorbed and that its steady-state elimination half-life is longer than previously assumed, which permits once or twice daily dosing even in the presence of enzyme-inducing drugs. The information from this study can inform the design of subsequent studies in adults, older children, and newborns, including controlled clinical trials intended to determine the efficacy and safety of intravenous topiramate for neonatal seizures.

UI  - 23577697
TI  - Steroids for preventing recurrence of acute severe migraine headaches: a meta-analysis.
AB  - When steroids are added to standard abortive therapy for migraine headaches, they are effective and safe for preventing moderate or severe headache recurrence.

UI  - 23575819
TI  - Prediction of headache severity (density and functional impact) after traumatic brain injury: A longitudinal multicenter study.
AB  - Individuals with HA at three months after moderate-severe TBI do not improve over the ensuing nine months with respect to HA density or ADL disruptions. Those with pre-injury HA, particularly of migraine type, are at greatest risk for HA post-TBI. Other independent risk factors are penetrating-type TBI and, to a lesser degree and post-acutely only, female sex. Individuals with these risk factors should be monitored and considered for aggressive early intervention.

UI  - 23566208
TI  - Topiramate modulates habituation in migraine: evidences from nociceptive responses elicited by laser evoked potentials.
AB  - Our results indicate a modulating action of topiramate on cortical processing of sensorial stimuli, mainly regarding the sensory-discriminative component of pain, elaborated by SII, without a significant effect on the affective dimension of pain, in which the ACC has an important role.

UI  - 23566101
TI  - Transcranial Direct Current Stimulation (tDCS) of the visual cortex: a proof-of-concept study based on interictal electrophysiological abnormalities in migraine.
AB  - Anodal tDCS over the visual cortex is thus able to increase habituation to repetitive visual stimuli in healthy volunteers and in episodic migraineurs, who on average lack habituation interictally. Moreover, 2 weekly sessions of anodal tDCS had a significant preventive anti- migraine effect, proofing the concept that the low preactivation level of the visual cortex in migraine patients can be corrected by an activating neurostimulation. The therapeutic results indicate that a larger sham-controlled trial using the same tDCS protocol is worthwhile.

UI  - 23524340
TI  - Can weight loss improve migraine headaches in obese women? Rationale and design of the Women's Health and Migraine (WHAM) randomized controlled trial.
AB  - The WHAM trial will evaluate the efficacy of a standardized behavioral weight loss intervention for reducing migraine frequency, and the extent to which weight loss and other potential mediators account for intervention effects.

UI  - 23514092
TI  - Efficacy endpoints in migraine clinical trials: the importance of assessing freedom from pain.
AB  - Many efficacy endpoints have been used in clinical trials of acute migraine pharmacotherapy. Headache response or headache relief (i.e., moderate/severe pain reduced to mild/no pain) at a single, specified time-point, traditionally the primary endpoint, and headache recurrence (i.e., return of pain after initial postdose relief) are inadequate. Headache relief does not provide information about pain-free response and counts a partial response as a treatment success. Headache recurrence can reflect sustained efficacy but is confounded by initial response to treatment, because ineffective drugs have low recurrence rates. The International Headache Society (IHS) guidelines state that 2 hour pain-free response and sustained pain-free response (i.e., freedom from pain with no recurrence or use of rescue or study medication 2-24 hours postdose) provide the most clinically relevant information about the efficacy of migraine pharmacotherapy. The pain-free criterion counts partial responses as failures and thus is a more rigorous test of therapeutic benefit than headache relief, and the two endpoints together incorporate the main treatment attributes that determine patient satisfaction. As an example, consider needle-free subcutaneous sumatriptan and oral triptan tablets. An open-label study of needle-free subcutaneous sumatriptan by Cady and colleagues found that 2 hour pain-free response and sustained pain-free response were 64% and 42% respectively. For oral triptan tablets, the 2001 metaanalysis by Ferrari and colleagues reported 2 hour pain-free response rates ranging from 23% to 38% and sustained pain-free response rates ranging from 11% to 26%. The measures of pain-free response 2 hours postdose and sustained pain-free response can differentiate among treatments and be used to guide therapeutic choices.

UI  - 23511357
TI  - Acupuncture versus valproic acid in the prophylaxis of migraine without aura: a prospective controlled study.
AB  - Our data show a lower pain intensity and lower Rizatriptan intake at six-months follow-up with no adverse events in acupuncture patients compared to those treated with valproic acid.

UI  - 23489216
TI  - Ictal adiponectin levels in episodic migraineurs: a randomized pilot trial.
AB  - In this pilot study of women episodic migraineurs, the HMW:LMW ADP ratio level was associated with migraine severity and predictive of acute treatment response. ADP and the HMW:LMW ratio of ADP represent potential novel biomarkers and drug targets for episodic migraine.

UI  - 23464876
TI  - Color and spatial frequency are related to visual pattern sensitivity in migraine.
AB  - Color, independent of luminance or particular color contrasts, can have therapeutic effects for people with visually triggered migraine as it can reduce the number of perceived illusions when viewing stripes or text. The effect was not color-specific and was greatest for the 12 cpd gratings. Given the significant associations between the achromatic discomfort measures and reports of visual triggers, and the lack of significant associations between the chromatic discomfort measures and reports of visual triggers, further research is recommended to explore the potential to reduce the number of visually triggered migraines with color in addition to alleviating visual discomfort.

UI  - 23430981
TI  - Haplotype analysis of the folate-related genes MTHFR, MTRR, and MTR and migraine with aura.
AB  - These results suggest that MTRR variants may protect against migraine with aura in an older population.

UI  - 23416816
TI  - Efficacy of amitriptyline, pizotifen and propranolol in the prevention of migraine.
AB  - This intervention study conducted in the Neurology outpatient Department of Mymensingh Medical College Hospital (MMCH) from January 2006 to December 2007 to compare efficacy of amitriptyline, pizotifen and propranolol in the prophylaxis of migraine. Ninety cases were selected following certain inclusion and exclusion criteria. Result showed that the differences in duration, frequency and severity of attack were reduced in all groups but the differences among the groups were not significant (p>0.05). However, compared with amitriptyline and pizotifen, the propranolol group needed tablet paracetamol as abortive therapy less frequently which was statistically significant (p<0.05). All the drugs were well tolerated with minimum adverse effects.

UI  - 23415512
TI  - Prevalence of migraine and Raynaud phenomenon in women with apical ballooning syndrome (Takotsubo or stress cardiomyopathy).
AB  - Apical ballooning syndrome (ABS), migraine, and Raynaud phenomenon are characterized by female predominance, identifiable triggers, and, likely, vascular dysfunction. Estrogen deficiency, such as in menopause, is considered to be a predisposing factor for ABS. We investigated the association of ABS with migraine, Raynaud phenomenon, and hormonal factors. We compared 25 consecutive residents (all women) of Olmsted County, Minnesota, presenting with ABS, to 2 age-matched control groups from the same community: 25 women presenting with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI), matched for the index ABS event date, and 50 women with neither diagnosis. The patients with ABS were more likely to have a migraine history (11 [44%] vs 4 [16%] STEMI controls, p = 0.031, and vs 6 [12%] population controls, p = 0.003), and "possible migraine" (including other headache syndromes suggestive of migraine; 15 [60%] vs 6 [24%] STEMI controls, p = 0.012; and vs 12 [24%] population controls, p = 0.003). Of the patients with ABS, 4 (16%) had Raynaud phenomenon compared to no STEMI controls and 1 (2%) population control (p = 0.038). No differences were present in parity, menopausal status, years since the onset of menopause, and frequency of oophorectomy. Current hormonal replacement therapy use was greater in those with ABS than in the population controls: 4 (16%) versus none (p = 0.002). In conclusion, the association of ABS with migraine and Raynaud phenomenon supports a role of vasomotor dysfunction in the pathogenesis of ABS. The absence of an association with reproductive characteristics and the finding that ABS occurred despite exogenous hormonal use in some patients suggests that estrogen deficiency per se is not the primary factor in the pathophysiology.

UI  - 23409612
TI  - Somatic acupuncture versus ear acupuncture in migraine therapy: a randomized, controlled, blind study.
AB  - This study compares the clinical effectiveness of somatic and ear acupuncture for treatment of migraine without aura. 35 patients were divided into 2 groups, one receiving somatic and the other ear acupuncture. Both groups were treated once a week for 8 weeks and needles were stimulated manually. The severity of pain was evaluated with the Migraine Index and the visual analogue of Scott-Huskisson; other 2 tests were used to monitor the pain threshold and Zung's Self-rating Depression Scale was applied to assess variations in patients' mood. These tests were performed before the beginning and at the end of treatment and, for the follow up, after 1, 3 and 6 months from the end of therapy. On the basis of the migraine index, pain at the end of therapy was significantly lower than before the treatment, being residual pain 54.83% and 63.43%, respectively for somatic and ear acupuncture. Apparently, the 2 treatments were equally effective, as no significant difference could be assessed. On the contrary, a significant difference between the 2 groups was clear during the follow up: in fact, after 6 months residual pain was 16.80% and 48.83% for somatic and ear acupuncture, respectively (p=0.038). These results were confirmed by the Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) test and by the evaluation of pain threshold. It is noteworthy that also Zung's depression test showed a significant decrease of score was present in both groups, at all the times investigated with no difference between the two treatments. These results, though preliminary, are quite promising in supporting the effectiveness of ear acupuncture for treatment of migraine without aura.

UI  - 23406477
TI  - Amitriptyline vs divalproate in migraine prophylaxis: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Divalproate extended release is more effective at 3 months than AMT; however, at 6 months, both are equally effective in migraine prophylaxis.

UI  - 23406052
TI  - Evaluation of sumatriptan-naproxen in the treatment of acute migraine: a placebo-controlled, double-blind, cross-over study assessing cognitive function.
AB  - There is a significant decline in global cognitive efficiency at the onset of an attack of migraine. The use of Treximet allows a significantly faster recovery time in some measures of cognitive efficiency compared with placebo. Decline of cognitive efficiency may be independent of headache severity.

UI  - 23390177
TI  - Migraine prevention with a supraorbital transcutaneous stimulator: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - This study provides Class III evidence that treatment with a supraorbital transcutaneous stimulator is effective and safe as a preventive therapy for migraine.

UI  - 23380105
TI  - A randomized open-label study of sodium valproate vs sumatriptan and metoclopramide for prolonged migraine headache.
AB  - Treatment with iVPA was more effective than metoclopramide + SQ sumatriptan during the first 2 hours in patients with a prolonged migraine.

UI  - 23375162
TI  - Chronic migraine and chronic tension-type headache are associated with concomitant low back pain: results of the German Headache Consortium study.
AB  - The objective of this study was to evaluate the association between low and frequent low back pain and chronic migraine (CM) and chronic tension-type headache (CTTH) in a large, German population-based sample. Headaches were diagnosed according to International Classification of Headache Disorders-2 criteria and categorized according to frequency (episodic 1-14 days/month or chronic 15 days/month) and headache type (migraine or TTH). We defined frequent low back pain as self-reported low back pain on 15 days/month. We calculated odds ratios and 95% confidence intervals (CI) using logistic regression analyses, adjusting for sociodemographic covariates. There were 5605 respondents who reported headache in the previous year, of whom 255 (4.5%) had Chronic Headache. Migraine was diagnosed in 2933 respondents, of whom 182 (6.2%) had CM. TTH was diagnosed in 1253 respondents, of whom 50 (4.0%) had CTTH. Among 9944 respondents, 6030 reported low back pain, of whom 1267 (21.0%) reported frequent low back pain. In adjusted models, the odds of having frequent low back pain were between 2.1 (95% CI 1.7-2.6) and 2.7 (95% CI 2.3-3.2) times higher in all episodic headache subtypes when compared to No Headache. The odds of having frequent low back pain were between 13.7 (95% CI 7.4-25.3) and 18.3 (95% CI 11.9-28.0) times higher in all chronic headache subtypes when compared to No Headache. Low and frequent low back pain was associated with CM and CTTH. Multiple explanations may contribute to the association of headache and back pain, including the notion that the neurobiology of chronic headache, independent of primary headache type, not only involves the trigeminal pain pathway, but is also a part of abnormal general pain processing.

UI  - 23370087
TI  - Predicting prognostic factors in a randomized controlled trial of acupuncture versus topiramate treatment in patients with chronic migraine.
AB  - Some variables can predict outcome in acupuncture or topiramate treatment of CM patients. Identifying predictors of prognosis of both treatments for CM may help improve outcomes in future work.

UI  - 23365053
TI  - A randomized controlled trial of intranasal ketamine in migraine with prolonged aura.
AB  - This study provides class III evidence that intranasal ketamine is effective in reducing aura severity in patients with migraine with prolonged aura.

UI  - 23359075
TI  - [Triptans in clinical practice: effectiveness, tolerance and patient's satisfaction with medication (TRIPRACLI study)].
AB  - In this selected group of patients, triptans are a treatment that patients claim to be very satisfied with. Although there are no overall differences in the scores among different triptans, the fact that certain triptans are used more by patients after previous experiences with others suggests that they are more effective. We did not find any parameter that predicts the use of a particular triptan.

UI  - 23337558
TI  - Is craniosacral therapy effective for migraine? Tested with HIT-6 Questionnaire.
AB  - The results indicate that craniosacral treatment can alleviate migraine symptoms. Further research is suggested.

UI  - 23328330
TI  - Allodynia in migraine: clinical observation and role of prophylactic therapy.
AB  - 71.4% migraineurs had allodynia that was related to the duration, severity, frequency of migraine, and female gender. Divalproate and amitriptyline were equally effective in relieving allodynia.

UI  - 23311688
TI  - The effects of cinnarizine versus sodium valproate in migraine prophylaxis.
AB  - Our results showed that administration of 25-mg cinnarizine every 12 hours can significantly decrease headache duration (p  0.001) and headache frequency (p  0.001) in patients with migraine. These results suggest that cinnarizine may be an appropriate substitution for first-line migraine prophylaxis such as valproate.

UI  - 23298223
TI  - Visual evoked potentials in interictal migraine: no confirmation of abnormal habituation.
AB  - Reversal rate and check-size differences do not seem to explain the discrepant visual evoked potential habituation results in the migraine literature. Furthermore, no differences in first block amplitudes or N70, P100, and N145 latencies between healthy controls and migraineurs were found. We recommend blinded evaluation designs in future habituation studies in migraine.

UI  - 23259267
TI  - [Observation on therapeutic effect of the new Bianshi (stone needle) therapy on migraine].
AB  - The new Bianshi therapy is applicable for treatment of migraine, which has a comparatively ideal clinical effect.

UI  - 23216900
TI  - Test of the child/adolescent Rome III criteria: agreement with physician diagnosis and daily symptoms.
AB  - The Rome criteria have reasonable test-retest reliability and seem to be inclusive, as the majority of children obtain a diagnosis. However, validity is still an issue: The Rome criteria do not overlap well with physician diagnosis or daily symptoms. These issues will need to be addressed in future revisions of the Rome criteria.

UI  - 23216259
TI  - Enhanced pain expectation in migraine: EEG-based evidence for impaired prefrontal function.
AB  - Our findings of impaired modulation of anticipated pain in migraine suggest a heightened state of anticipatory readiness combined with ineffective recruitment of prefrontal inhibitory pathways during experience of pain; the latter might account for the former, at least partially. In line, less efficient inhibitory capability is a plausible mechanistic explanation for patients' high concern about their upcoming migraine attacks.

UI  - 23216231
TI  - IgG-based elimination diet in migraine plus irritable bowel syndrome.
AB  - Our findings indicate that food elimination based on IgG antibodies in migraine patients who suffer from concomitant IBS may effectively reduce symptoms from both disorders with possible positive impact on the quality of life of the patients as well as potential savings to the health-care system.

UI  - 23213978
TI  - [Migraine without aura treated by comprehensive auricular acupuncture: a multicentral controlled study].
AB  - The comprehensive auricular acupuncture reduces apparently the headache score for migraine without aura and relieves the clinical symptoms of migraine. It is the simple and effective therapy for migraine without aura.

UI  - 23185092
TI  - Diagnostic utility of routine EEG study in identifying seizure as the etiology of the index event in patients referred with a diagnosis of migraine and not otherwise specified headache disorders.
AB  - The study investigated the diagnostic utility of a routine electroencephalogram (EEG) to help identify seizure as the underlying etiology of the index event in patients referred with a diagnosis of migraine and not otherwise specified (NOS) headache disorders. A total of 50 patients yielded 50 routine EEGs (headache NOS, n = 32; migraine n = 18). Overall, there were 37 (74%) normal EEGs and 13 (26%) abnormal. Routine EEGs are mostly normal in young patients (18-40 years of age) who are referred to our laboratory with a diagnosis of headache NOS or migraine.

UI  - 23165696
TI  - Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, phase II trial of gabapentin enacarbil for migraine prophylaxis.
AB  - GEn did not significantly differ from placebo for migraine headache prophylaxis. A high placebo effect should be considered when interpreting these results.

UI  - 23159967
TI  - The effect of Helicobacter pylori eradication on migraine: a randomized, double blind, controlled trial.
AB  - H. pylori eradication may have a beneficial role on migraine headache. This shows the significance of H. pylori treatment in the management of migraine headache among Iranian patients.

UI  - 23148799
TI  - An open-label trial of a sumatriptan auto-injector for migraine in patients currently treated with subcutaneous sumatriptan.
AB  - The majority of injection-experienced patients reported the pre-assembled, single-use sumatriptan auto-injector to be an easy-to-use, preferred treatment for an acute migraine attack. The study found the auto-injector to be safe and well tolerated, with levels of injection site reactions that were mild and infrequent.

UI  - 23143958
TI  - [Initial situation and approach to the care of migraine in neurology services in Spain: the PRIMERA study].
AB  - The PRIMERA study confirms, once again, that migraine is an under-diagnosed and under-treated condition in our setting, which means that specific educational interventions and training are still required for this pathology.

UI  - 23121858
TI  - Physical co-morbidity among treatment resistant vs. treatment responsive patients with major depressive disorder.
AB  - Co-morbid physical illness has been suggested to play an important role among the factors contributing to treatment resistance in patients with major depressive disorder. In the current study we compared the rate of physical co-morbidity, defined by ICD-10, among a large multicenter sample of 702 patients with major depressive disorder. A total of 356 of the participants were defined as treatment resistant depression (TRD) patients-having failed two or more adequate antidepressant trials. No significant difference was found between TRD and non-TRD participants in the prevalence of any ICD-10 category. This finding suggests that although physical conditions such as diabetes, thyroid dysfunction, hypertension, ischemic heart disease, and peptic diseases are often accompanied by co-morbid MDD, they do not necessarily have an impact on the course of MDD or the likelihood to respond to treatment. Marginally higher rates of co-morbid breast cancer, migraine and glaucoma were found among TRD participants. Possible explanations for these findings and their possible relation to TRD are discussed.

UI  - 23121272
TI  - Efficacy, end points and eventualities: sumatriptan/naproxen versus butalbital/paracetamol/caffeine in the treatment of migraine.
AB  - Migraine is a widespread, relapsing, remittent syndrome. No animal model predicts whether test medications will be clinically useful. Using a modern, well-controlled, sophisticated study design, Derosier et al. demonstrates not only that a butalbital formulation has modest efficacy as an acute treatment for migraine but also that a sumatriptan-naproxen combination is superior. These conclusions are reached using a variety of internally consistent secondary efficacy end points. The primary end point chosen (highly conservative and fashionable in some academic circles) was a technical failure (and not a negative experimental finding). Migraine is intrinsically pleiomorphic: diverse treatment options help match patient with therapy. This study does not justify blanket bans on (admittedly hazardous) barbiturate therapies, and regulators should not impose end point conservatism to an extent that will stifle further progress.

UI  - 23078588
TI  - Long-term open-label safety study of rizatriptan acute treatment in pediatric migraineurs.
AB  - Rizatriptan was generally safe and well tolerated in the long-term acute treatment of migraine in pediatric patients aged 12-17 years and demonstrated a consistent treatment effect over time.

UI  - 23061303
TI  - Migraine prophylaxis by anodal transcranial direct current stimulation, a randomized, placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - The present study suggests that anodal M1 tDCS may be a safe and useful clinical tool in migraine prophylaxis. The mechanism of action of anodal tDCS on neuromodulation in migraine patients needs further investigation.

UI  - 23054063
TI  - Comparison of tolerability and efficacy of a combination of paracetamol + caffeine and sumatriptan in the treatment of migraine attack: a randomized, double-blind, double-dummy, cross-over study.
AB  - In this study, we compared the efficacy and tolerability of the combination of paracetamol 1,000 mg + caffeine 130 mg (PCF) with sumatriptan 50 mg (SUM) in migraine attacks. This was a multi-center randomized double-blind, double-dummy, cross-over controlled trial. The efficacy was assessed by the sum of pain intensity differences, the curve of mean pain intensity, the number of pain free at 2 h, and the total pain relief. Tolerability was assessed by recording adverse events within 4 h after drug assumption and evaluating the global judgement of patients. The comparison of these parameters did not show differences between the two drugs which resulted absolutely overlapping in pain relief and patients evaluation. In conclusion, we confirm the efficacy and safety of PCF such as SUM in the treatment of migraine attacks.

UI  - 23041402
TI  - Occipital stimulation for chronic migraine: patient selection and complications.
AB  - Complication rates with OS are higher than those seen with other stimulation techniques, despite identical hardware and similar surgery. The location of migraine pain did predict outcome, and suggests that only those with primarily occipital region headache are candidates for this therapy.

UI  - 23034698
TI  - Safety and efficacy of peripheral nerve stimulation of the occipital nerves for the management of chronic migraine: results from a randomized, multicenter, double-blinded, controlled study.
AB  - Clinical trials.gov (NCT00615342).

UI  - 23020264
TI  - Effectiveness of intravenous dexamethasone versus propofol for pain relief in the migraine headache: a prospective double blind randomized clinical trial.
AB  - Clinical Trials IRCT201008122496N4.

UI  - 22994458
TI  - A randomized controlled trial of a comprehensive migraine intervention prior to discharge from an emergency department.
AB  - A comprehensive migraine intervention, when compared to typical care, did not improve HIT-6 scores (a validated measure of the effect of migraine on one's daily life) 1month after ED discharge. Future work is needed to define a migraine intervention that is practical and useful in an ED, where many underserved patients, of necessity, present for care.

UI  - 22978244
TI  - Homeopathic treatment of migraine in children: results of a prospective, multicenter, observational study.
AB  - The results of this study demonstrate the interest of homeopathic medicines for the prevention and treatment of migraine attacks in children. A significant decrease in the frequency, severity, and duration of migraine attacks was observed and, consequently, reduced absenteeism from school.

UI  - 22961605
TI  - The combined effect of acupuncture and Tanacetum parthenium on quality of life in women with headache: randomised study.
AB  - The present work shows an improvement of the quality of life and better analgesic effect of acupuncture combined with TAN treatment on migraine pain in women when compared with acupuncture or TAN alone.

UI  - 22926161
TI  - Genotypes of the MTHFR C677T and MTRR A66G genes act independently to reduce migraine disability in response to vitamin supplementation.
AB  - This provided further evidence that vitamin supplementation is effective in reducing migraine and also that both MTHFR and MTRR gene variants are acting independently to influence treatment response in female migraineurs.

UI  - 22895810
TI  - The effects of magnesium, L-carnitine, and concurrent magnesium-L-carnitine supplementation in migraine prophylaxis.
AB  - Given the conflicting results about the positive effects of magnesium and L-carnitine and as there is no report concerning concurrent supplementation of magnesium and L-carnitine on migraine prophylaxis, the effects of magnesium, L-carnitine, and concurrent magnesium-L-carnitine supplementation on migraine indicators were assessed. In this clinical trial, 133 migrainous patients were randomly assigned into three intervention groups: magnesium oxide (500mg/day), L-carnitine (500mg/day), and Mg-L-carnitine (500mg/day magnesium and 500mg/dayL-carnitine), and a control group. After 12weeks of supplementation, the checklist of migraine indicators including migraine attacks/month, migraine days/month, and headache severity was completed, and serum concentrations of magnesium and L-carnitine were measured by atomic absorption spectrophotometry and enzymatic UV test, respectively. The results showed a significant reduction in all migraine indicators in all studied groups (p<0.05). The ANOVA results showed a significant reduction in migraine frequency across various supplemented and control groups (p=0.008). By separating the effects of magnesium supplementation from other confounding factors such as routine treatments using the repeated measures and nested model, it was clarified that magnesium supplementation had a significant effect on all migraine indicators. Oral supplementation with magnesium oxide and L-carnitine and concurrent supplementation of Mg-L-carnitine besides routine treatments could be effective in migraine prophylaxis; however, larger trials are needed to confirm these preliminary findings.

UI  - 22894176
TI  - A PET-CT study on the specificity of acupoints through acupuncture treatment in migraine patients.
AB  - The number of our clinical trial registration is: ChiCTR-TRC-11001813, and the protocol and inclusion criteria have already been registered as ChiCTR-TRC-11001813.

UI  - 22888768
TI  - Cerebrovascular response in migraineurs during prophylactic treatment with acupuncture: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - The findings indicate that prophylactic treatment of migraineurs by standardized acupuncture might positively influence the dysfunction of the cerebrovascular response to autonomic stimuli, but not the cerebral vasotonus during rest.

UI  - 22830358
TI  - Migraine, headaches, and cognition.
AB  - The presence of headaches in late adulthood was related to a worse performance on few measures of executive functioning, suggesting that cognitive impact is not specific to migraine but might be associated to headache.

UI  - 22826191
TI  - Migraine history, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug use, and risk of postmenopausal endometrial cancer.
AB  - Endometrial cancer is primarily a hormonally mediated disease. As such, factors that mediate or reflect exposure to estrogens, or that mediate response to such exposure, may plausibly be associated with endometrial cancer risk. History of migraines, another hormonally mediated condition, has recently been associated with a reduced risk of hormone receptor-positive breast cancer; however, the relationship between migraines and endometrial cancer has not previously been explored. We evaluated the relationship between migraine history and endometrial cancer risk in postmenopausal women, considering also the potential impact of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use, given the relationship of NSAIDs to hormones and to migraine history. We identified 93,384 women participating in the Women's Health Initiative prospective cohort who had an intact uterus at the time of study entry. Using Cox proportional hazards regression, we assessed risk of endometrial cancer during study follow-up according to history of migraines and according to current NSAID use at the time of study entry, adjusting for age, study arm, race, and hormone therapy use. We also evaluated interaction in these associations by body mass index. Having a history of migraines was not associated with endometrial cancer risk [hazard ratio (HR) = 0.91, 95% confidence interval (CI) = 0.75-1.11], regardless of body mass index (BMI) or NSAID use status. Similarly, current NSAID use was not associated with endometrial cancer risk (HR = 1.01, 95% CI = 0.88-1.16), regardless of BMI. Migraine history and NSAID use do not appear to be associated with risk of endometrial cancer.

UI  - 22822901
TI  - The study of time perception in migraineurs.
AB  - This study indicates that not only is time perception impaired in migraineurs, but that this impairment is exhibited for durations in the milliseconds range, and not the seconds range.

UI  - 22791378
TI  - Use of Vitex agnus-castus in migrainous women with premenstrual syndrome: an open-label clinical observation.
AB  - Premenstrual syndrome (PMS) affects most women during their reproductive life. Headache is regarded as a typical symptom of PMS and, close to menses, migrainous women could experience their worst migraine attacks. Vitex agnus-castus (VAC) is a phytopharmaceutical compound, considered worldwide to be a valid tool to treat PMS. Aim of this study is to explore if headache is ameliorate in migrainous women treated with VAC for PMS by an open-label clinical observation. Migrainous women with PMS were enrolled in the study and advised to assume a treatment with VAC (40mg/day) for PMS for a 3-month period. Effects both on PMS and headache were assessed. Out of 107 women, 100 completed the 3-month treatment for PMS. Out of them, 66 women reported a dramatic reduction of PMS symptoms, 26 a mild reduction, and 8 no effect. Concerning migraine, 42% of patients experienced a reduction higher than 50% in frequency of monthly attacks, and 57% of patients experienced a reduction higher than 50% in monthly days with headache. No patients reported remarkable side effects. Pending a placebo-controlled trial to confirm our results, we observed that the use of VAC in migrainous women affected by PMS resulted to be safe and well tolerated, and may positively influence the frequency and duration of migraine attacks.

UI  - 22741259
TI  - [Clinical research on treatment of migraine with pine needle moxibustion].
AB  - The clinical effect of migraine treated with pine needle moxibustion is better than that with the medicated thread moxibustion of Zhuang medicine. And it has obvious regulation effect on the levels of hs-CRP and Mg2+ in the serum of patients.

UI  - 22732675
TI  - High frequency repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) is effective in migraine prophylaxis: an open labeled study.
AB  - High rate rTMS in left frontal cortex is effective and well tolerated for migraine prophylaxis.

UI  - 22730906
TI  - Efficacy and safety of 400 and 800 mg etodolac vs. 1,000 mg paracetamol in acute treatment of migraine: a randomized, double-blind, crossover, multicenter, phase III clinical trial.
AB  - Our study showed that etodolac is a safe and effective alternative in acute migraine treatment and showed comparable efficacy to paracetamol 1,000 mg. Etodolac may be considered as an alternative option for acute treatment of migraine.

UI  - 22718556
TI  - Prostaglandin E(2) induces immediate migraine-like attack in migraine patients without aura.
AB  - The migraine-like attacks during, and immediately after, the PGE(2) infusion contrast with those found in previous provocation studies, in which the other pharmacological compounds triggered the delayed migraine-like attacks several hours after the infusion. We suggest that PGE(2) may be one of the important final products involved in the generation of migraine attacks.

UI  - 22712503
TI  - The effectiveness of a group-based acceptance and commitment additive therapy on rehabilitation of female outpatients with chronic headache: preliminary findings reducing 3 dimensions of headache impact.
AB  - The effectiveness of a brief acceptance and commitment additive therapy in the treatment of Iranian outpatient females with chronic headache represents a significant scientific finding and clinical progress, as it implies that this kind of treatment can be effectively delivered in a hospital setting.

UI  - 22711898
TI  - Efficacy and tolerability of rizatriptan in pediatric migraineurs: results from a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial using a novel adaptive enrichment design.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT01001234.

UI  - 22711895
TI  - Intranasal ketorolac tromethamine (SPRIX(R)) containing 6% of lidocaine (ROX-828) for acute treatment of migraine: safety and efficacy data from a phase II clinical trial.
AB  - Self-administered intranasal ROX-828 was well tolerated. While the primary endpoint was not met, the results provide preliminary evidence that ROX-828 improves migraine pain.

UI  - 22697367
TI  - Health economic evaluation of acupuncture along meridians for treating migraine in China: results from a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Clinical Trials.gov NCT00599586.

UI  - 22694484
TI  - A sumatriptan iontophoretic transdermal system for the acute treatment of migraine.
AB  - The sumatriptan iontophoretic transdermal system is effective and well tolerated, and may be particularly useful in patients with migraine-related gastrointestinal symptoms such as nausea.

UI  - 22644174
TI  - Efficacy of frovatriptan versus other triptans in the acute treatment of menstrual migraine: pooled analysis of three double-blind, randomized, crossover, multicenter studies.
AB  - The objective of this study was to review the efficacy and safety of frovatriptan (F) versus rizatriptan (R), zolmitriptan (Z) and almotriptan (A), in women with menstrually related migraine (IHS criteria) through a pooled analysis of three individual studies. Subjects with a history of migraine with or without aura were randomized to F 2.5 mg or R 10 mg (study 1), F or Z 2.5 mg (study 2), and F or A 12.5 mg (study 3). The studies had an identical multicenter, randomized, double-blind, crossover design. After treating three episodes of migraine in no more than 3 months with the first treatment, patients had to switch to the next treatment for other 3 months. 346 subjects formed intention-to-treat population of the main study; 280 of them were of a female gender, 256 had regular menses and 187 were included in the menstrual migraine subgroup analysis. Rate of pain free at 2, 4 and 24 h was 23, 52 and 67 % with F and 30, 61 and 66 % with comparators (P = NS). Pain relief episodes at 2, 4 and 24 h were 37, 60 and 66 % for F and 43, 55 and 61 % for comparators (P = NS). Rate of recurrence was significantly (P < 0.05) lower under F either at 24 h (11 vs. 24 % comparators) or at 48 h (15 vs. 26 % comparators). Number of menstrual migraine attacks associated with drug-related adverse events was equally low (P = NS) between F (5 %) and comparators (4 %).

UI  - 22644173
TI  - Frovatriptan versus zolmitriptan for the acute treatment of migraine with aura: a subgroup analysis of a double-blind, randomized, multicenter, Italian study.
AB  - Migraine with aura affects ~20-30 % of migraineurs and it is much less common than migraine without aura. The aim of this study was to compare the efficacy of frovatriptan 2.5 mg and zolmitriptan 2.5 mg in the treatment of migraine with aura. Analysis was carried out in a subset of 18 subjects with migraine with aura (HIS criteria) out of the 107 enrolled in a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, cross-over study. According to the study design, each patient had to treat three episodes of migraine in no more than 3 months with one drug, before switching to the other treatment. The rate of pain-free episodes at 2 h was significantly (p < 0.05) larger under frovatriptan (45.8 %) than under zolmitriptan (16.7 %). Pain free at 4 h, pain relief at 2 and 4 h and recurrent episodes were similar between the two treatments, while sustained pain-free episode was significantly (p < 0.05) more frequent during frovatriptan treatment (33.3 vs. 8.3 % zolmitriptan). Our study suggests that frovatriptan is superior to zolmitriptan in the immediate treatment of patients with migraine with aura, and it is capable of maintaining its acute analgesic effect over 48 h.

UI  - 22642299
TI  - Impact of a weight loss program on migraine in obese adolescents.
AB  - Significant improvements in both adiposity and headache data were observed in obese adolescents with migraine who participated in a 12-month-long interdisciplinary intervention program for weight loss. Initial body weight and amount of weight loss may be useful for clinicians to predict migraine outcomes.

UI  - 22627745
TI  - [Precipitating factors of migraine attacks in patients attended in neurology services. The FACTOR study].
AB  - The FACTOR study confirms that most patients with migraine identify some circumstance that precipitates their attacks. Controlling or avoiding these factors, whenever possible, must be part of the programme of education received by patients suffering from migraine.

UI  - 22622909
TI  - Occipital nerve stimulation for chronic migraine: a randomized trial.
AB  - According to the results obtained, ONS appears to be a safe and effective treatment for carefully selected CM and MOH patients.

UI  - 22607530
TI  - Concurrent onabotulinumtoxinA treatment of cervical dystonia and concomitant migraine.
AB  - Concurrent treatment with onabotulinumtoxinA is effective and well tolerated in controlling the symptoms of cervical dystonia complicated by concurrent migraine.

UI  - 22592864
TI  - Frovatriptan versus almotriptan for acute treatment of menstrual migraine: analysis of a double-blind, randomized, cross-over, multicenter, Italian, comparative study.
AB  - The objective of the study was to compare the efficacy and safety of frovatriptan and almotriptan in women with menstrually related migraine (IHS Classification of Headache disorders) enrolled in a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, cross-over study. Patients received frovatriptan 2.5mg or almotriptan 12.5mg in a randomized sequence: after treating 3 episodes of migraine in no more than 3months with the first treatment, the patient was switched to the other treatment. 67 of the 96 female patients of the intention-to-treat population of the main study had regular menstrual cycles and were thus included in this subgroup analysis. 77 migraine attacks classified as related to menses were treated with frovatriptan and 78 with almotriptan. Rate of pain relief at 2 and 4h was 36 and 53% for frovatriptan and 41 and 50% for almotriptan (p=NS between treatments). Rate of pain free at 2 and 4h was 19 and 47% with frovatriptan and 29 and 54% for almotriptan (p=NS). At 24h, 62% of frovatriptan-treated and 67% of almotriptan-treated patients had pain relief, while 60 versus 67% were pain free (p=NS). Recurrence at 24h was significantly (p<0.05) lower with frovatriptan (8 vs. 21% almotriptan). This was the case also at 48h (9 vs. 24%, p<0.05). Frovatriptan was as effective as almotriptan in the immediate treatment of menstrually related migraine attacks. However, it showed a more favorable sustained effect, as shown by a lower rate of migraine recurrence.

UI  - 22585767
TI  - Randomized trial of sumatriptan and naproxen sodium combination in adolescent migraine.
AB  - All doses of suma/nap were well tolerated, providing similarly effective acute treatment of adolescent migraine pain and associated symptoms, as compared with placebo.

UI  - 22583459
TI  - Mapping from disease-specific measures to health-state utility values in individuals with migraine.
AB  - The relationship between the EQ-5D questionnaire and the HIT-6 or the MSQ is adequate to use regression equations to estimate EQ-5D questionnaire utility values. The preferred HIT-6 and MSQ algorithms will be useful in estimating health-state utilities in migraine trials in which no preference-based measure is present.

UI  - 22581595
TI  - A single-fibre electromyography study of neuromuscular transmission in patients with cluster headache.
AB  - The abnormal neuromuscular transmission detectable by SFEMG may reflect a genetically determined dysfunction of the P/Q Ca2+ channels in a group of migraineurs with aura. Conversely, absence of neuromuscular abnormalities in cluster headache patients could be explained by different aetiology not resulting in channelopathy. Single-fibre electromyography could be a helpful tool in clinically questionable cases in differentiating between cluster headache and migraine with aura.

UI  - 22568456
TI  - Stability, responsiveness, and reproducibility of a visual analog scale for treatment satisfaction in migraine.
AB  - The VAS scale described here is a responsive and easy-to-use tool for evaluating treatment satisfaction and for monitoring changes to treatment if these are required.

UI  - 22560101
TI  - Efficacy of high-flow oxygen therapy in all types of headache: a prospective, randomized, placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - In addition to its role in the treatment of cluster headache, high-flow oxygen therapy may provide an effective treatment of all types of headaches in the ED setting.

UI  - 22540391
TI  - Aerobic endurance training versus relaxation training in patients with migraine (ARMIG): study protocol for a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - The trial is registered at ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT01407861.

UI  - 22536889
TI  - Efficacy of acupuncture for acute migraine attack: a multicenter single blinded, randomized controlled trial.
AB  - This trial suggested that verum acupuncture group was superior to sham acupuncture group on relieving pain and reducing the usage of acute medication.

UI  - 22535148
TI  - Migraine prevalence, alexithymia, and post-traumatic stress disorder among medical students in Turkey.
AB  - The aim of this study was to investigate the prevalence of migraine, alexithymia, and post-traumatic stress disorder among medical students at Cumhuriyet University of Sivas in Turkey. A total of 250 medical students participated in this study and answered the questionnaires. The study was conducted in three stages: the self-questionnaire, the neurological evaluation, and the psychiatric evaluation. In the first stage, the subjects completed a questionnaire to assess migraine symptoms and completed the three-item Identification of Migraine Questionnaire, the Toronto Alexithymia Scale, and the Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder Checklist-Civilian Version Scale. The subjects who reported having a migraine underwent a detailed neurological evaluation conducted by a neurologist to confirm the diagnosis. In the final stage, the subjects with a migraine completed a psychiatric examination using the structured clinical interview for DSM-IV-R Axis I. The actual prevalence of migraine among these medical students was 12.6%. The students with a migraine were diagnosed with alexithymia and post-traumatic stress disorder more frequently than those without migraine. The Migraine Disability Assessment Scale scores correlated with the post-traumatic stress disorder scores. The results of this study indicate that migraine was highly prevalent among medical students in Turkey and was associated with the alexithymic personality trait and comorbid psychiatric disorders including post-traumatic stress disorder. Treatment strategies must be developed to manage these comorbidities.

UI  - 22524107
TI  - Migraine life-time prevalence in mental disorders: concurrent comparisons with first-degree relatives and the general population.
AB  - The authors quantified the prevalence of migraine in subjects with mental disorders, first-degree relatives and the adult general population (GP) in Mrida, Venezuela. After validation, a modified, short version of the Lipton's diagnostic scale was administered to consecutively admitted in- and out-patients (n = 1059), their first-degree relatives (n = 445) and a probabilistic sample of the GP (n = 516). In the GP, the frequency of migraine (percentage and 95% confidence interval) was 14.9 (11.8-17.9). The migraine frequencies were (percentage and odd ratio probability against the GP: bipolar disorder (15.7%, p = 0.5), schizophrenia (8.3%, p = 0.08), depression and dysthimia (24.4%, p = 0.2), anxiety disorders (10.0%, p = 0.02), personality disorders (11.4%, p = 0.15), all other disorders (15.5%, p = 0.4), relatives of bipolar patients (4.4%, p < 0.001), relatives of schizophrenia patients (3.5%, p = 0.003), and relatives of patients with all other mental disorders (12.8%, p = 0.4). Migraine was more common in women (p < 0.001), and the bipolar patients presented the highest female to male ratio (8:1). A high variability was observed in migraine prevalence among the diagnostic categories, but it was particularly high in subjects with affective disorders, mainly in women, who thus deserve special attention from clinicians.

UI  - 22517298
TI  - Lavender essential oil in the treatment of migraine headache: a placebo-controlled clinical trial.
AB  - The present study suggests that inhalation of lavender essential oil may be an effective and safe treatment modality in acute management of migraine headaches.

UI  - 22512348
TI  - tDCS-induced analgesia and electrical fields in pain-related neural networks in chronic migraine.
AB  - Our findings give preliminary evidence that patients with chronic migraine have a positive, but delayed, response to anodal tDCS of the primary motor cortex. These effects may be related to electrical currents induced in pain-related cortical and subcortical regions.

UI  - 22506628
TI  - Comparison of expected outcomes between patients and neurologists using Kano's methodology in symptomatic migraine treatment.
AB  - Kano's methodology is a useful tool to analyze differences in migraine treatment expectations among patients and neurologists. The main difference between patients and neurologists related to basic priorities. Therefore, when selecting treatment for migraine, physicians should invite the patient to participate in the decision making of which treatment is more appropriate.

UI  - 22492422
TI  - Aortic root pathology in Marfan syndrome increases the risk of migraine with aura.
AB  - The lifetime prevalence of migraine with aura, but not migraine without aura, is increased in patients with MFS. This association is driven by a history of AR. The replacement procedure itself is unlikely to be causally associated with migraine as in nearly all subjects, migraine started before the procedure. However this study adds to the evidence that underlying vessel wall pathology may be involved in migraine with aura.

UI  - 22491867
TI  - Migraine in cervical artery dissection and ischemic stroke patients.
AB  - Migraine without aura is more common among CeAD(stroke) patients compared to non-CeAD IS patients. The mechanisms and possible causative link remain to be proved. Although CeAD is often complicated by stroke, our data do not support increased risk of stroke in migrainous CeAD patients.

UI  - 22486740
TI  - The development of a survey to measure completeness of response to migraine therapy.
AB  - The CORS is capable of demonstrating advantages of more comprehensive migraine therapies over traditional therapies, which are primarily focused on the resolution of headache pain, by addressing the frequency and speed with which the most common migraine symptoms are resolved and patients' return to normal functioning. This research shows evidence for the value and utility for the CORS static and comparative items and components, and further evaluation is underway.

UI  - 22483280
TI  - Suggestion and pain in migraine: a study by laser evoked potentials.
AB  - Belief and expectation are part of placebo effect. Migraine patients are characterized by a dysfunctional modulation of pain processing, though a clear placebo effect emerges in clinical trials. The aim of the study was to evaluate the effect of visual and verbal suggestion on subjective pain sensation and cortical responses evoked by CO2 painful laser stimuli in migraine without aura patients vs healthy controls. Twenty-six patients were recorded during the inter-ictal phase and compared to 26 sex and age-matched controls. The right hand and the right supraorbital zone were stimulated during a not conditioned and a conditioned task, where laser stimuli were delivered after a verbal and visual cues of decreased (D), increased (I) or basal (B) intensity, which was left unmodified during the entire task. In control subjects pain rating changed, according to the announced intensity, while in migraine patients the basal hyper-algesia remained unmodified. The N1 and N2 amplitudes tended to change coherently with the stimulus cue in controls, while an opposite paradoxical increase in decreasing condition emerged in migraine. The P2 amplitude modulation was also reduced in migraine, differently from controls. The altered pattern of pain rating and N2 amplitude modulation concurred with frequency of migraine, disability and allodynia. In controls suggestion influenced cortical pain processing and subjective pain rating, while in migraine a peculiar pattern of cortical activation contrasted external cues in order to maintain the basal hyper-algesia. This scarce influence of induced suggestion on pain experience seemed to characterize patients with more severe migraine and central sensitization.

UI  - 22471135
TI  - [Observation on therapeutic effect of migraine treated with medicated threads moxibustion of Zhuang nationality].
AB  - The therapeutic effect of migraine treated with medicated threads moxibustion of Zhuang nationality is significantly effective, and there is no any adverse reaction.

UI  - 22460943
TI  - Rizatriptan in migraineurs with unilateral cranial autonomic symptoms: a double-blind trial.
AB  - The objective and background is to confirm in a double-blind, placebo-controlled study the high triptan response rates we had previously reported in an open study in migraine patients with unilateral cranial autonomic symptoms. In this randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study 80 migraineurs with unilateral cranial autonomic symptoms were assigned to receive rizatriptan 10mg wafer or placebo (ratio 1:1) and treated for a single moderate or severe migraine attack. The primary endpoints were pain freedom at 2h and total migraine freedom at 2h. Secondary endpoints included pain relief, no associated symptoms and sustained pain freedom or relief. Significantly more patients reported pain freedom at 2h after taking rizatriptan (54%) than after placebo (8%) (therapeutic gain 46% [28%; 64%]; P<0.001). Similarly, significantly more patients reported total migraine freedom at 2h after rizatriptan (51%) than after placebo (8%) (therapeutic gain 43% [26%; 61%]; P<0.001). Rizatriptan was also more effective than placebo on most secondary endpoints. We confirm in a placebo-controlled study our previous data suggesting that the presence of unilateral cranial autonomic symptoms in migraineurs predicts a positive response to triptans, probably owing to intense trigeminal peripheral afferent activation which strongly recruits peripheral neurovascular 5-HT1B/1D receptors. Acute and preventive pharmacological trials in migraine should focus also on this subset of migraine patients.

UI  - 22442736
TI  - Women with endometriosis are more likely to suffer from migraines: a population-based study.
AB  - Previous research suggests that a co-morbid relationship exists between migraine and endometriosis; however, results have been inconsistent. In addition, female hormones, which are important in the pathogenesis and management of endometriosis, have been reported to precipitate migraine attacks and may confound the results. The aim of this population-based cohort study was to explore the relationship between migraine and endometriosis in women of reproductive age (18-51 years). Data were derived from the National Health Insurance Research Database of Taiwan, which contains outpatient and inpatient records from 2000 to 2007. Our study cohort included 20,220 endometriosis patients and 263,767 controls without endometriosis. We analyzed the prevalence of migraine in these women as recorded during the eight years of the database. Our results found that patients with endometriosis were more likely to suffer migraine headaches compared to controls (odds ratio [OR], 1.70; 95% confidence interval [CI] [1.59, 1.82]; p<0.001). In addition, the co-morbid association between migraine and endometriosis remained significant after the data were controlled for age and frequently utilized hormone therapies (OR, 1.37; 95% CI, [1.27, 1.47]; p<0.001). The results of this cohort study support the existence of a co-morbid relationship between migraine and endometriosis, even after adjusting for the possible effects of female hormone therapies on migraine attacks.

UI  - 22435741
TI  - Oral sumatriptan and almotriptan--delimiting the MAOI effect.
AB  - A model for oral sumatriptan pharmacokinetics can be found using the differential calculus, and it is generalizable to oral almotriptan. The model suggests that an MAOI-A probably has greater effect on elimination kinetics than first-pass metabolism, and that this interaction appears to be overstated in product labeling.

UI  - 22427290
TI  - Efficacy and safety of cinnarizine in the prophylaxis of migraine headaches in children: an open, randomized comparative trial with propranolol.
AB  - Migraine headaches are common in children. Early diagnosis and appropriate interventions are mandatory to prevent decades of suffering and diminished quality of life. There is need for data regarding the efficacy and safety of prophylactic agents in children with migraine; therefore, we designed a randomized clinical trial to compare the efficacy and safety of cinnarizine with that of a well-known prophylactic agent (propranolol) in the prophylaxis of pediatric migraine headache. A total of 120 patients aged between 6 and 17years were recruited and 113 patients succeeded in completing all phases of the trial. Of them, 57 patients were given cinnarizine, and propranolol was administered in 56 patients. Reduction in headache frequency was the main response to treatment. Cinnarizine reduced the baseline headache frequency by more than 50% in 74.6% of patients and the mean headache frequency per month was reduced from 11.8510.739 (meanSEM) to 3.3580.739 (meanSEM) attacks per month (P<0.001). In the propranolol group, more than 50% reduction of the baseline headache frequency was seen in 72.5% of patients and the mean headache frequency per month was reduced from 10.2640.830 (meanSEM) to 2.7740.830 (meanSEM) attacks per month (P<0.001). No significant difference was seen in 50% reduction of the baseline headache frequency between treatment groups (P=0.358). No significant adverse effects were reported. In this open study, cinnarizine appeared thus as effective as propranolol and safe for the prophylaxis of migraine in children, but this remains to be confirmed in a double-blind placebo-controlled trial.

UI  - 22413151
TI  - A randomized trial of a web-based intervention to improve migraine self-management and coping.
AB  - Demonstrated increases in self-efficacy to perform headache self-management, increased use of positive symptom management strategies, and reported decreased migraine-related depression and stress suggest that the intervention may be a useful behavioral adjunct to a comprehensive medical approach to managing migraine.

UI  - 22407658
TI  - Psychiatric comorbidity and response to preventative therapy in the treatment of severe migraine trial.
AB  - Significantly larger reductions in migraine activity and migraine-related disability were observed in participants with a mood and/or anxiety disorder diagnosis than in participants who did not receive either diagnosis.

UI  - 22395798
TI  - Migraine and restless legs syndrome in women.
AB  - Our data suggest an association between migraine and RLS at the population level. The association is similar for migraine with and without aura and for new reports of migraine during follow-up.

UI  - 22377815
TI  - Randomized, placebo-controlled trial of propranolol added to topiramate in chronic migraine.
AB  - This study provides Class II evidence that propranolol LA, added to topiramate, is ineffective in chronic migraine patients who fail topiramate monotherapy.

UI  - 22356030
TI  - Randomised, controlled blink reflex in patients with migraine and tension type headache.
AB  - Our findings demonstrated that brainstem and trigeminovascular connections play an important role in migraine pathogenesis and that central mechanisms play a role in TTH and concerning these two diseases.

UI  - 22352764
TI  - Twelve-month tolerability and efficacy study of NP101, the sumatriptan iontophoretic transdermal system.
AB  - NP101, a transdermal sumatriptan formulation in development for the acute treatment of migraine, demonstrated tolerability and efficacy with successive uses over 12 months in this clinical trial.

UI  - 22345630
TI  - The influence of multimodal behavioral treatment on the consumption of acute migraine drugs: a randomized, controlled study.
AB  - Triptans were the most used and efficient drugs. MBT led to decreased and more efficient drug consumption. Men used triptans less frequently.

UI  - 22343638
TI  - Cerebellar and cerebral autoregulation in migraine.
AB  - This first-time analysis of cerebellar autoregulation in migraine did not show a specific cerebellar dysautoregulation in the interictal period. More static autoregulatory properties (index Dx) are, however, impaired in persons with migraine with aura both in the cerebellar and anterior circulation. The cerebellar predilection of ischemic lesions in migraine with aura might be a combination of altered autoregulation and additional factors, such as the end artery cerebellar angioarchitecture.

UI  - 22310106
TI  - Testosterone pellet implants and migraine headaches: a pilot study.
AB  - The purpose of this prospective pilot study was to determine the therapeutic effect of continuous testosterone, delivered as a subcutaneous implant, on the severity of migraine headaches in pre- and post-menopausal patients. Twenty-seven women with a history of documented migraine headache were asked to rate their headache severity using a five-point scale at baseline (prior to therapy); and again, 3 months following treatment with testosterone implants. Improvement in headache severity was noted by 92% of patients and the mean level of improvement was statistically significant (3.3 on a 5 point scale). In addition, there was no difference in the level of improvement between pre- and post-menopausal cohorts. Seventy-four percent of patients reported a headache severity score of '0' (none) on testosterone implant therapy for the 3-month treatment period. Continuous testosterone was effective therapy in reducing the severity of migraine headaches in both pre- and post-menopausal women.

UI  - 22305246
TI  - Peripheral pulsed electromagnetic fields may reduce the placebo effect in migraine patients that do not respond to the sham intervention in a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, cross-over clinical trial.
AB  - Treatment with PEMF may not alter either migraine intensity or frequency compared to baseline, but may reduce the response to placebo in migraine patients.

UI  - 22303641
TI  - Intravenous dexamethasone versus morphine in relieving of acute migraine headache.
AB  - Inflammation is thought to play a significant role in the underlying pathophysiology of migraine headaches which could be controlled by corticosteroids. The present study was conducted to determine and compare the pain relieving effect of dexamethasone versus morphine on patients with acute migraine headache. During this double blinded clinical trial study, 190 patients who met the International Headache Society definition of acute migraine headache were evaluated at emergency department of Tabriz Imam Reza Hospital. After giving informed consent, patients were randomly enrolled into two groups: Receiving either 8 mg dexamethasone (group A) or 0.1 mg kg(-1) morphine (group B) intravenously. Severity of the headache was determined using Visual Analog Scale (VAS) scoring method at baseline (VAS-A), 10 min (VAS-B), 60 min (VAS-C) and 24 h (VAS-D) after intervention. The mean age of patients was 44.17 +/- 16.20 years, 61.57% male and 38.43% female. The mean of VAS-A and VAS-B scores was not statistically different between two groups (p = 0.236 and p = 0.481), but the mean of VAS-C and VAS-D scores in the group A were significantly lower than the group B (p = 0.017, p = 0.010). In long-term (1 h and 24 h after administration), dexamethasone reduces the severity of acute migrant headache more than morphine.

UI  - 22289113
TI  - Pharmacokinetics and tolerability of rizatriptan in pediatric migraineurs in a randomized study.
AB  - In pediatric migraineurs, a weight-based dosing scheme generated plasma rizatriptan AUC((0-)) and C(max) values that were generally similar to those historically observed in adults administered a 10-mg dose of rizatriptan ODT (a proven effective dose). The data support further evaluation of the safety, tolerability, and efficacy of this rizatriptan dosing scheme in larger scale clinical trials in the pediatric migraineur population.

UI  - 22280825
TI  - Headache and adverse pregnancy outcomes: a prospective study.
AB  - Women with headache should be considered at risk for adverse perinatal outcomes and should, therefore, be included in a high-risk pregnancy protocol of care throughout pregnancy.

UI  - 22278333
TI  - A randomized, placebo-controlled study of the effects of telcagepant on exercise time in patients with stable angina.
AB  - Telcagepant is a calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) receptor antagonist being evaluated for acute migraine treatment. CGRP is a potent vasodilator that is elevated after myocardial infarction, and it delays ischemia during treadmill exercise. We tested the hypothesis that CGRP receptor antagonism does not reduce treadmill exercise time (TET). The effects of supratherapeutic doses of telcagepant on TET were assessed in a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, two-period, crossover study in patients with stable angina and reproducible exercise-induced angina. Patients received telcagepant (600 mg, n = 46; and 900 mg, n = 14) or placebo and performed treadmill exercise at T(max) (2.5 h after the dose). The hypothesis that telcagepant does not reduce TET was supported if the lower bound of the two-sided 90% confidence interval (CI) for the mean treatment difference (telcagepant-placebo) in TET was more than -60 s. There were no significant between-treatment differences in TET (mean treatment difference: -6.90 (90% CI: -17.66, 3.86) seconds), maximum exercise heart rate, or time to 1-mm ST-segment depression using pooled data or with stratification for dose.

UI  - 22250605
TI  - Negative impact of migraine on quality of life after 4 weeks of treatment in patients with major depressive disorder.
AB  - Migraine may have a negative impact on the improvement of partial SF-36 subscales, especially on functional recovery, after acute treatment among outpatients with MDD. Whether additional intervention besides antidepressant treatment for migraine is indicated may need further study.

UI  - 22234883
TI  - Early dosing and efficacy of triptans in acute migraine treatment: the TEMPO study.
AB  - This suggests that advising patients on the importance of early triptan intake after headache onset may help improve the efficacy of acute migraine treatments.

UI  - 22233396
TI  - A randomized, one-year clinical trial comparing the efficacy of topiramate, flunarizine, and a combination of flunarizine and topiramate in migraine prophylaxis.
AB  - Flunarizine, topiramate, and the combination of flunarizine with topiramate are all effective and have good tolerability in migraine prophylaxis. Adding topiramate to flunarizine may reduce the latter's impact on body weight.

UI  - 22231691
TI  - Acupuncture for migraine prophylaxis: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Clinicaltrials.gov NCT00599586.

UI  - 22231680
TI  - A proactive approach to migraine in primary care: a pragmatic randomized controlled trial.
AB  - An educational intervention for general practitioners and a proactive approach to patients with migraine did not result in a clinically relevant improvement of symptoms. Psychological distress was an important confounder of success. (Current Controlled Trials registration no. ISRCTN72421511.).

UI  - 22229837
TI  - Transdermal sumatriptan for acute treatment of migraineurs with baseline nausea.
AB  - Transdermal sumatriptan is superior to oral triptans for migraine patients whose baseline nausea causes them to delay or avoid acute treatment.

UI  - 22221076
TI  - Randomized, controlled study of telcagepant in patients with migraine and coronary artery disease.
AB  - The study was underpowered due to enrollment difficulties and did not demonstrate a significant efficacy difference between telcagepant and placebo for the treatment of a migraine attack in patients with stable coronary artery disease. Telcagepant was generally well tolerated for acute intermittent migraine treatment in these patients.

UI  - 22188387
TI  - Iron deposition in pain-regulatory nuclei in episodic migraine and chronic daily headache by MRI.
AB  - Because iron accumulation should cause shortening of both T2 and T2', although the lack of significance in observed T2' difference could be due to increased variance in T2' the measurement, these results suggest that a mechanism other than increased iron deposition may play a role in the genesis or pathophysiology of MOH.

UI  - 22188311
TI  - Two center, randomized pilot study of migraine prophylaxis comparing paradigms using pre-emptive frovatriptan or daily topiramate: research and clinical implications.
AB  - This pilot study demonstrated that statistical benefit for reduction of headache days over baseline for both pre-emptive frovatriptan and daily topiramate. Subjects utilizing pre-emptive frovatriptan experienced fewer adverse events leading to study withdrawal. Subjects utilizing daily topiramate had fewer headache days at Month 2.

UI  - 22174351
TI  - Lack of drug interaction between the migraine drug MAP0004 (orally inhaled dihydroergotamine) and a CYP3A4 inhibitor in humans.
AB  - This study demonstrated that CYP3A4 inhibition had little to no effect on DHE PK after MAP0004 administration, apparently because of its high systemic and low gastrointestinal bioavailability. CYP3A4 inhibition slowed elimination of the metabolite 8'-OH-DHE, but concentrations were too low to be pharmacologically relevant.

UI  - 22165671
TI  - Allergen-specific sublingual immunotherapy in the treatment of migraines: a prospective study.
AB  - In patients with allergic rhinitis, migraine development and course may have a significant allergic component. Assessment of migraineurs for the possibility of coexisting allergic rhinitis is justified. Treatment of allergic rhinitis by immune response modifiers, such as immunotherapy, may have a place in the management of migraines for these patients.

UI  - 22142350
TI  - Evaluation of the migraine treatment sumatriptan/naproxen sodium on blood pressure following long-term administration.
AB  - Anti-inflammatory and pain therapies have been associated with blood pressure (BP) destabilization. Hence, the effects on BP of sumatriptan/naproxen sodium in fixed-dose combination, sumatriptan 85 mg, and naproxen sodium 500 mg administered intermittently for the acute treatment of migraine attacks were assessed. Patients with migraine with or without aura and no history of hypertension were randomized to sumatriptan/naproxen sodium (n=135), sumatriptan (n=136), or naproxen sodium (n=136) to treat migraine attacks for 6 months in a double-blind, parallel-group trial. Following a treated migraine attack, patients performed 2 consecutive days of self-measured BPs beginning 24 hours after the last dose of study medication and transmitted them by a transtelephonic modem. The primary end point was the change from baseline in self-measured BP at 6 months. Changes in self-measured BP from baseline to 6 months for sumatriptan/naproxen sodium were -2.1/-1.5 mm Hg (95% confidence intervals, -3.4 to -0.8 for systolic and -2.6 to -0.3 for diastolic). Mean changes from baseline in self-measured BP did not differ among the 3 treatment groups. Additional categorical analyses did not show increases from baseline with sumatriptan/naproxen sodium relative to either of the monotherapy groups. Intermittent acute migraine treatment with sumatriptan/naproxen sodium for up to 6 months was associated with clinically insignificant decreases in self-measured BP that were similar to those with sumatriptan or naproxen alone in normotensive patients with migraine.

UI  - 22113647
TI  - A randomized trial on the effects of regular water intake in patients with recurrent headaches.
AB  - Considering the observed positive subjective effects, it seems reasonable to recommend headache patients to try this non-invasive intervention for a short period of time to see whether they experience improvement.

UI  - 22106843
TI  - Efficacy and safety of MAP0004, orally inhaled DHE in treating migraines with and without allodynia.
AB  - This post hoc subanalysis shows that MAP0004 was similarly effective in patients whether or not allodynia was present at treatment baseline. Patients were also more likely to be allodynia-free following treatment of a migraine with MAP0004.

UI  - 22103635
TI  - Sumatriptan-naproxen and butalbital: a double-blind, placebo-controlled crossover study.
AB  - This study primarily included subjects whose migraines significantly impacted their lives. Before the study, these subjects used butalbital-containing medications as part of their current migraine treatment regimen and were satisfied with it, suggesting they were butalbital responders who had found a workable treatment strategy for themselves. When treated with SumaRT/Nap versus BCM in this study, however, a significant proportion of subjects reported better treatment outcomes for themselves for both migraine pain and associated symptoms. Use of SumaRT/Nap was also associated with less rescue medication use and a longer time before use of rescue medication compared with both BCM and placebo.

UI  - 22085683
TI  - Acupuncture as analgesia for low back pain, ankle sprain and migraine in emergency departments: study protocol for a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Australia and New Zealand Clinical Trials Register (ANZCTR): ACTRN12609000989246.

UI  - 22078129
TI  - Rizatriptan for treatment of acute migraine in patients taking topiramate for migraine prophylaxis.
AB  - Rizatriptan 10-mg ODT was superior to placebo at all pain end points for treatment of acute migraine in patients using topiramate for migraine prophylaxis. Rizatriptan was generally well tolerated in this population. These results are comparable with those from clinical trials in patients not using prophylaxis, suggesting that the use of topiramate does not affect the efficacy or tolerability of rizatriptan for acute migraine treatment.

UI  - 22072703
TI  - Cortical folding influences migraine aura symptoms in CADASIL.
AB  - The absence of visual symptoms during migraine auras was associated with a profound asymmetry of the primary visual cortex. Aura symptoms seem to be linked to the morphology of the primary visual cortex in CADASIL. This finding potentially reflects more general relationships between spreading depression and cortex morphology in migraine with aura.

UI  - 22050335
TI  - Interictal pattern-induced visual discomfort and ictal photophobia in episodic migraineurs: an association of interictal and ictal photophobia.
AB  - We conclude that MwP experienced more severe pattern-induced visual discomfort as compared with the controls and MwoP.

UI  - 22027667
TI  - [Possibilities of preventive treatment of migraine with the MT1- and MT2 agonist and 5-HT2 receptor antagonist agomelatin (valdoxan)].
AB  - Experimental and pilot clinical trials suggest the role of melatoninergic systems in the pathogenesis of migraine and the treatment effect of drugs acting on melatonin receptors. Authors studied the efficacy of the MT1- and MT2 agonist and selective 5-HT2C receptor antagonist agomelatine in the migraine prevention. Twenty patients with migraine, aged from 23 to 45 years, were treated with agomelatin in dose 25 mg per day during 3 months. The frequency of migraine attacks decreased from 7.42.4 to 3.81.4 (p=0.025), the duration and intensity of attacks decreased from 38.014.10 h to 24.06.1 h (p=0.018). The increase of treatment efficacy index, the decrease of headache impact on the general state measured with the VAS (from 8.11.8 to 7.21.6; p=0.01) and quality of life (HIT-6 index) as well as the duration of disability caused by headache (HALT index) were seen. The reduction of depression severity and normalization of night sleep were found in patients treated with agomelatin.

UI  - 22019576
TI  - Acupuncture versus topiramate in chronic migraine prophylaxis: a randomized clinical trial.
AB  - We suggest that acupuncture could be considered a treatment option for CM patients willing to undergo this prophylactic treatment, even for those patients with medication overuse.

UI  - 22008899
TI  - Topiramate plus nortriptyline in the preventive treatment of migraine: a controlled study for nonresponders.
AB  - A sizeable proportion of migraineurs in need of preventive therapy do not significantly benefit from monotherapy. The objective of the study is to conduct a randomized controlled trial testing whether combination therapy of topiramate and nortriptyline is useful in patients who had less than 50% decrease in headache frequency with the use of the single agents. Patients with episodic migraine were enrolled if they had less than 50% reduction in headache frequency after 8weeks of using topiramate (TPM) (100mg/day) or nortriptyline (NTP) (30mg/day). They were randomized (blinded fashion) to have placebo added to their regimen, or to receive the second medication (combination therapy). Primary endpoint was decrease in number of headache days at 6weeks, relative to baseline, comparing both groups. Secondary endpoint was proportion of patients with at least 50% reduction in headache frequency at 6weeks relative to baseline. A total of 38 patients were randomized to receive combination therapy, while 30 continued on monotherapy (with placebo) (six drop outs in the combination group and three for each single drug group). For the primary endpoint, mean and standard deviation (SD) of reduction in headache frequency were 4.6 (1.9) for those in polytherapy, relative to 3.5 (2.3) for those in monotherapy. Differences were significant (p<0.05]. Similarly, 78.3% of patients randomized to receive polytherapy had at least 50% headache reduction, as compared to 37% in monotherapy (p<0.04). Finally we conclude that combination therapy (of TPM and NTP) is effective in patients with incomplete benefit using these agents in monotherapy.

UI  - 21996647
TI  - Efficacy of parecoxib, sumatriptan, and rizatriptan in the treatment of acute migraine attacks.
AB  - Triptans and analgetic nonsteroidal inflammatory drugs reduce acute pain syndromes in migraine. A further treatment option for an acute headache attack in patients with migraine may be the application of cyclooxygenase-2-specific inhibitors, as they have anti-inflammatory and analgesic properties. The objective of this pilot study was to investigate the effects of an oral fast-dissolving tablet of 10 mg of rizatriptan, an intravenous infusion of 40 mg of parecoxib, and a subcutaneous pen injection of sumatriptan (6 mg/0.5 mL) on pain relief in 3 cohorts of patients with episodic migraine. They were treated owing to the acute onset of a pain attack as a case of emergency. They were randomized to treatment with sumatriptan, rizatriptan, or parecoxib. The participants completed a visual analog scale for pain intensity at baseline before the drug administration and then after intervals of 20, 30, 60, and 120 minutes. Rizatriptan, parecoxib, and sumatriptan reduced pain symptoms. Twenty and 30 minutes after drug intake, rizatriptan was more efficacious than parecoxib and sumatriptan, and parecoxib was more effective than sumatriptan. Only a significant difference between rizatriptan and sumatriptan was found after 60 and 120 minutes. This trial demonstrates the effectiveness of a parecoxib infusion in the treatment of acute migraine and that the circumvention of the first pass effect of the liver by rizatriptan may be beneficial for fast pain relief.

UI  - 21964172
TI  - MAP0004, orally inhaled dihydroergotamine for acute treatment of migraine: efficacy of early and late treatments.
AB  - This post hoc subanalysis shows that MAP0004 was effective in treating migraine irrespective of the time of treatment, even more than 8 hours after onset of migraine pain.

UI  - 21956721
TI  - OnabotulinumtoxinA improves quality of life and reduces impact of chronic migraine.
AB  - This study provides Class 1A evidence that onabotulinumtoxinA treatment reduces headache impact and improves HRQoL.

UI  - 21950578
TI  - A comparative study of the effects of low-dose topiramate versus sodium valproate in migraine prophylaxis.
AB  - The present study was performed to evaluate the efficacy of low-dose topiramate and compare it with sodium valproate that is prevalently prescribed as a migraine prophylaxis. This was a randomized, double-blind, parallel-group clinical trial on 56 patients who completed the course of study. Topiramate and valproate were administered at 50 mg/day and 400 mg/day, respectively, during the follow-up period. Frequency, intensity, duration, associated symptoms with headaches, analgesics use, as well as drugs' side effects were studied. Participants completed MIDAS and HIT-6 questionnaires before and after treatment. Frequency, intensity, and duration of migraine headaches as well as MIDAS score and symptomatic medications decreased significantly between repeated follow-up visits in both groups. Responder rate for patients treated with topiramate and valproate were 71.6% and 64.3%, respectively, and the difference between the two groups was not statistically significant. The reduction of headache severity in the topiramate group was significantly more than that in the valproate group (p = .027). During the study, no statistically significant reduction in associated symptoms with migraine were observed in both the groups. Topiramate dose of 50 mg/day with fewer side effects in comparison with its higher doses may be an appropriate substitution for first-line migraine prophylaxis such as valproate.

UI  - 21942531
TI  - Needle-free subcutaneous sumatriptan for triptan users requiring a change in migraine therapy: efficacy and impact on patient-rated functionality, satisfaction, and confidence.
AB  - With SDP, triptan users requiring a change in therapy experienced increased efficacy, satisfaction with therapy, and confidence in treatment without deterioration in tolerability.

UI  - 21938606
TI  - [Botulinum toxin type A in the prophylactic treatment of chronic migraine].
AB  - Since the second edition of the International classification of headache disorders (ICDH-II 2004), chronic migraine has been listed amongst migraine complications. Compared to episodic migraine the prevalence of chronic migraine is low, its impact, however, significant. Until recently no prophylactic drug had been approved for chronic migraine prophylaxis. After case reports had stated an effect of botulinum toxin type A on migraine, several randomized placebo-controlled studies were conducted in episodic headache; the results, however, were disappointing. Only when botulinum toxin type A was used in chronic migraine in the PREEMPT (phase 3 research evaluating migraine prophylaxis therapy) trials, its superiority compared to placebo was established. Thus, for the first time a prophylactic drug against chronic migraine is available which is both effective and well tolerated. Botox has been licensed in England for the prophylaxis of headaches in adults with chronic migraine in 2010. Approval for its use in Germany has been applied for.

UI  - 21908446
TI  - The efficacy and tolerability of a fixed combination of acetylsalicylic acid, paracetamol, and caffeine in patients with severe headache: a post-hoc subgroup analysis from a multicentre, randomized, double-blind, single-dose, placebo-controlled parallel group study.
AB  - The results of this subgroup analysis confirm that the fixed combination of ASA (250 mg), paracetamol (200 mg), and caffeine (50 mg) is effective and well tolerated in a broad spectrum from mild to severe migraine and tension-type headache severity independently of the headache diagnosis.

UI  - 21890526
TI  - Exercise as migraine prophylaxis: a randomized study using relaxation and topiramate as controls.
AB  - Exercise may be an option for the prophylactic treatment of migraine in patients who do not benefit from or do not want to take daily medication.

UI  - 21887905
TI  - Sublingual piroxicam in migraine without aura.
AB  - The present study has demonstrated that for the acute management of migraine without aura sublingual piroxicam showed significant analgesic effect with excellent tolerability.

UI  - 21883200
TI  - Sumatriptan-naproxen migraine efficacy in allodynic patients: early intervention.
AB  - In this open-label study, allodynic patients reported that their migraine attacks responded well and they achieved a high degree of satisfaction following treatment with a fixed-dose tablet of sumatriptan 85 mg/naproxen sodium 500 mg administered in a very early treatment paradigm.

UI  - 21883197
TI  - OnabotulinumtoxinA for treatment of chronic migraine: pooled analyses of the 56-week PREEMPT clinical program.
AB  - Repeated treatment with  5 cycles of onabotulinumtoxinA was effective, safe, and well tolerated in adults with chronic migraine.

UI  - 21881905
TI  - Increased variability of motor cortical excitability to transcranial magnetic stimulation in migraine: a new clue to an old enigma.
AB  - Increased, decreased or normal excitability to transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) has been reported in the motor (M1) and visual cortices of patients with migraine. Light deprivation (LD) has been reported to modulate M1 excitability in control subjects (CS). Still, effects of LD on M1 excitability compared to exposure to environmental light exposure (EL) had not been previously described in patients with migraine (MP). To further our knowledge about differences between CS and MP, regarding M1 excitability and effects of LD on M1 excitability, we opted for a novel approach by extending measurement conditions. We measured motor thresholds (MTs) to TMS, short-interval intracortical inhibition, and ratios between motor-evoked potential amplitudes and supramaximal M responses in MP and CS on two different days, before and after LD or EL. Motor thresholds significantly increased in MP in LD and EL sessions, and remained stable in CS. There were no significant between-group differences in other measures of TMS. Short-term variation of MTs was greater in MP compared to CS. Fluctuation in excitability over hours or days in MP is an issue that, until now, has been relatively neglected. The results presented here will help to reconcile conflicting observations.

UI  - 21843889
TI  - Combined oral contraceptives in women with menstrual migraine without aura.
AB  - The 24/4 COC regimen is recommended as the preferred treatment for patients suffering from pure menstrual migraine without aura.

UI  - 21842274
TI  - Efficacy of frovatriptan in the acute treatment of menstrually related migraine: analysis of a double-blind, randomized, cross-over, multicenter, Italian, comparative study versus rizatriptan.
AB  - The objectives of this study are to assess the efficacy and safety of frovatriptan, and rizatriptan in the subgroup of women with menstrually related migraine of a multicenter, randomized, double blind, cross-over study. Each patient received frovatriptan 2.5mg or rizatriptan 10mg in a randomized sequence: after treating 3 episodes of migraine in not more than 3months with the first treatment, the patient had to switch to the other treatment. Menstrually related migraine was defined according to the criteria listed in the Appendix of the last IHS Classification of Headache disorders. 99 out of the 125 patients included in the intention-to-treat analysis of the main study were of a female gender: 93 had regular menstrual cycles and were, thus, included in this analysis. A total of 49 attacks classified as menstrually related migraine were treated with frovatriptan and 59 with rizatriptan. Rate of pain relief at 2h was 58% for frovatriptan and 64% for rizatriptan (p=NS), while rate of pain free at 2h was 31 and 34% (p=NS), respectively. At 24h, 67 and 81% of frovatriptan-treated, and 61 and 74% of rizatriptan-treated patients were pain free and had pain relief, respectively (p=NS). Recurrence at 24h was significantly (p<0.01) lower with frovatriptan (10 vs. 32% rizatriptan). Frovatriptan was as effective as rizatriptan in the immediate treatment of menstrually related migraine attacks while showing a favorable sustained effect with a lower rate of migraine recurrence. These results need to be confirmed by randomized, double-blind, prospective, large clinical trials.

UI  - 21835022
TI  - Randomised controlled trial of food elimination diet based on IgG antibodies for the prevention of migraine like headaches.
AB  - Use of the ELISA test with subsequent diet elimination advice did not reduce the disability or impact on daily life of migraine like headaches or the number of migraine like headaches at 12 weeks but it did significantly reduce the number of migraine like headaches at 4 weeks.

UI  - 21812775
TI  - Satisfaction with and confidence in needle-free subcutaneous sumatriptan in patients currently treated with triptans.
AB  - Patients currently treated with triptans and less than very satisfied with their acute migraine therapy experienced a statistically significant and clinically relevant increase in satisfaction with therapy and enhanced confidence in treatment after use of Sumavel DosePro for up to 4 migraine attacks.

UI  - 21802924
TI  - Chemical composition and therapeutic effects of Lippia alba (Mill.) N. E. Brown leaves hydro-alcoholic extract in patients with migraine.
AB  - Treatment with a geranial plus carvenone chemotype of L. alba hydro-alcoholic extract is a cheap, widely available, highly effective therapy to reduce both the intensity and the frequency of headache episodes of migraine patients with no side effects.

UI  - 21797863
TI  - Long-term evaluation of sumatriptan and naproxen sodium for the acute treatment of migraine in adolescents.
AB  - In adolescent migraineurs, after up to 12 months and over 12,000 exposures to sumatriptan/naproxen sodium, there were no new or clinically significant findings in the safety parameters, including the frequency and nature of adverse events, as compared to the individual components or to the adverse event profile in adults. In addition, sumatriptan/naproxen sodium provided freedom from pain over time, improvements in quality of life and medication satisfaction.

UI  - 21777163
TI  - The impact of allodynia on the efficacy of almotriptan when given early in migraine: data from the "Act when mild" study.
AB  - The objective of this study was to evaluate the impact of allodynia on treatment outcomes in the patients with acute migraine treated in the "Act when Mild" (AwM) study. AwM, a randomized placebo-controlled trial, studied almotriptan 12.5 mg in the early treatment (within 1 hr) of acute migraine when the pain was still mild, and investigated clinical outcomes in the presence or absence of allodynia, which was prospectively recorded using patient questionnaires. Of the total population, 39% (n = 404) reported allodynia that did not alter the efficacy of almotriptan administered for early/mild pain in terms of 2-hr pain-free rates (53.9% for allodynic patients vs. 52.5% for nonallodynic patients). Similarly, sustained pain-free rates were 47.2% versus 45.5%, and migraine duration 1.40 versus 1.54 hr, respectively. However, allodynia impaired the effectiveness of almotriptan in the patients with moderate/severe pain in terms of longer migraine duration, fewer patients achieving pain-free status, and more requiring rescue medication. In conclusion, the lack of effect of allodynia on the efficacy of almotriptan given for early/mild migraine pain might help explain the improved outcomes associated with the early-treatment strategy in AwM. Moreover, the data suggest that pain intensity is the main driver of triptan response, and not the presence or absence of allodynia.

UI  - 21762313
TI  - The Migraine Intervention Score - a tool to improve efficacy of triptans in acute migraine therapy: the ALADIN study.
AB  - The initiation of attack treatment with frovatriptan at low severity of migraine symptoms is more effective than starting therapy at higher symptom levels. Together with the low recurrence headache rate, the decreased necessity for escape medication and the low number of tablets needed, these data demonstrate that operationalised intervention with frovatriptan 2.5 mg is a valuable method for improving the treatment of migraine attacks.

UI  - 21738025
TI  - Zonisamide versus topiramate in migraine prophylaxis: a double-blind randomized clinical trial.
AB  - Our results indicated that zonisamide is as effective as topiramate in migraine prophylaxis and can be considered as an alternative treatment when topiramate is not tolerated well.

UI  - 21732734
TI  - Credibility of low-strength static magnet therapy as an attention control intervention for a randomized controlled study of CranioSacral therapy for migraine headaches.
AB  - Although LSSM did not achieve a comparable level of credibility and expectancy to the CST, several design and implementation factors may have contributed to the disparity. Based on analysis of these factors, the design and implementation of a future study may be improved.

UI  - 21717781
TI  - [Randomized controlled clinical trials for acupuncture treatment of aura-absence migraine patients].
AB  - Acupuncture therapy can raise the migraineurs' life quality, lessen the times and severity of headache attack, and its therapeutic effect is superior to that of medication.

UI  - 21710245
TI  - Imatinib mesylate in thymic epithelial malignancies.
AB  - This trial indicates the lack of effectiveness of imatinib in unselected patients with thymic epithelial tumors. Nevertheless, imatinib may represent a valuable option in selected patients with TETs, such as those harboring the V560del c-KIT mutation.

UI  - 21704313
TI  - Prevention of menstrual migraine with perimenstrual transdermal 17--estradiol: a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind crossover study.
AB  - The effect of treatment with percutaneous E(2) (100 g/24 h) during 2 weeks perimenstrually on the number and severity of menstrual migraine attacks was studied in 27 women in a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, crossover trial. We were not able to demonstrate any difference between E(2) supplementation and placebo on the number or severity of migraine attacks, but both regimens showed significant effects compared with before treatment. CLINICAL TRIAL IDENTIFICATION NUMBER: NCT00204074.

UI  - 21700645
TI  - Changes in headache frequency in premenopausal obese women with migraine after bariatric surgery: a case series.
AB  - Among migraine-suffering premenopausal obese women, we found a reduced frequency of migraine attacks and improvement of headache-related disability post bariatric surgery. Our findings should be interpreted cautiously. The absence of a control group and the non-blinded nature of our small study make it difficult to draw firm conclusions about the causal nature of the headache changes observed in this population. Further study is needed to evaluate the possible specific effects of surgical weight loss on migraine in obese women.

UI  - 21690175
TI  - The International Burden of Migraine Study (IBMS): study design, methodology, and baseline cohort characteristics.
AB  - This is the first large international cohort of persons with chronic and episodic migraine studied using a web-based approach, a methodology well suited to the study of the burden of migraines.

UI  - 21673005
TI  - Migraine and cardiovascular disease in women and the role of aspirin: subgroup analyses in the Women's Health Study.
AB  - In post-hoc subgroup analyses, aspirin had similar protective effects on ischaemic stroke for women with or without migraine. By contrast, our data suggest that women with MA on aspirin had increased risk of MI. The small number of outcome events in subgroups, the exploratory nature of our analyses, and lack of plausible mechanisms raise the possibility of a chance finding, which must caution the interpretation.

UI  - 21631494
TI  - A double-blind placebo-controlled pilot study of sublingual feverfew and ginger (LipiGesic M) in the treatment of migraine.
AB  - Sublingual feverfew/ginger appears safe and effective as a first-line abortive treatment for a population of migraineurs who frequently experience mild headache prior to the onset of moderate to severe headache.

UI  - 21631478
TI  - Effect of telcagepant on spontaneous ischemia in cardiovascular patients in a randomized study.
AB  - Two doses of 300-mg telcagepant, administered 2 hours apart, did not appear to exacerbate spontaneous ischemia and were generally well tolerated in a small cohort of patients with stable coronary artery disease. Results of this study support further evaluation of telcagepant in patients with stable coronary artery disease.

UI  - 21616596
TI  - Efficacy of acupuncture for migraine prophylaxis: a single-blinded, double-dummy, randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Insufficient clinical trial data were available to prove the efficacy of acupuncture for migraine prophylaxis. A multicenter, double-dummy, single-blinded, randomized controlled clinical trial was conducted at the outpatient departments of acupuncture at 5 hospitals in China to evaluate the effectiveness of acupuncture. A total of 140 patients with migraine without aura were recruited and assigned randomly to 2 different groups: the acupuncture group treated with verum acupuncture plus placebo and the control group treated with sham acupuncture plus flunarizine. Treated by acupuncture 3 times per week and drugs every night, patients from both groups were evaluated at week 0 (baseline), week 4, and week 16. The primary outcome was measured by the proportion of responders (defined as the proportion of patients with a reduction of migraine days by at least 50%). The secondary outcome measures included the number of migraine days, visual analogue scale (VAS, 0 to 10 cm) for pain, as well as the physical and mental component summary scores of the 36-item short-form health survey (SF-36). The patients in the acupuncture group had better responder rates and fewer migraine days compared with the control group (P<.05), whereas there were no significant differences between the 2 groups in VAS scores and SF-36 physical and mental component summary scores (P>.05). The results suggested that acupuncture was more effective than flunarizine in decreasing days of migraine attacks, whereas no significantly differences were found between acupuncture and flunarizine in reduction of pain intensity and improvement of the quality of life.

UI  - 21592098
TI  - Multi-center comparison of response to a single tablet of sumatriptan 85 mg and naproxen 500 mg vs usual therapy treating multiple migraine attacks as measured by the completeness of response survey.
AB  - NCT00893737.

UI  - 21586650
TI  - A randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled, crossover, add-on study of CoEnzyme Q10 in the prevention of pediatric and adolescent migraine.
AB  - Overall, results of the study demonstrate that children and adolescents with migraine improved over time with multidisciplinary, standardized treatment regardless of supplementation with CoQ10 or placebo. There was no difference in headache outcomes between the CoQ10 and placebo groups at day 224. Due to the improvements seen in weeks 1-4, CoQ10 may lead to earlier improvement in headache severity, but given the sample size this conclusion warrants further investigation with a larger sample.

UI  - 21585330
TI  - Metoclopramide as an analgesic in severe migraine attacks: an open, single-blind, parallel control study.
AB  - Metoclopramide is a well-known anti-emetic drug with central and peripheral pharmacological effects. Some authors have reported metoclopramide as an adjunct therapy to other analgesics in patients with migraine attacks. Treatment of migraine headache using a mix of metoclopramide and an NSAID has been patented (European Patent EP1014961) as well as a short series showing great efficacy and tolerability of metoclopramide in patients wtih migraine attacks. We decided to conduct an open, single-blind, parallel control study in the emergency department to evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of metoclopramide in patients with severe migraine attacks. 93 consecutive patients with severe migraine attacks were randomized into two groups (groups A and B). Patients in group A received 10mg of intravenous metoclopramide and patients in group B received 1 g of intravenous paracetamol. Patients were evaluated 5 minutes before (baseline), 15, 30, 60 and 120 minutes after drug delivery, and before being discharged from the emergency department They were then contacted by phone 48 hours after being discharged from the hospital (phone questionnaire). Patients treated with either metoclopramide or paracetamol showed a significant reduction in the intensity of pain at the 120 minute time point, with an 86% and 82% improvement respectively. However, patients treated with metoclopramide showed a more rapid improvement at the 15 and 30 minute evaluations. Patients with severe migraine attacks treated with metoclopramide as monotherapy showed a significant improvement in terms of pain relief and a faster improvement in pain intensity compared to those treated with paracetamol. Metoclopramide and other dopamine antagonistic drugs should be considered a therapeutic option in severe migraine headache attacks.

UI  - 21533745
TI  - Gingkolide B as migraine preventive treatment in young age: results at 1-year follow-up.
AB  - Primary headaches, migraine and tension-type headaches are some of the most frequent conditions in young age. Even before pharmacological treatment, it is mainly useful in these patients to adopt an appropriate lifestyle, with regular sleep, meals, computer and TV, sport, and avoiding triggers. Any specific and effective pharmacological treatment for migraine and tension-type headache is never lacking in side effects. Gingkolide B, an herbal constituent extract from Ginko biloba tree leaves, is a natural anti platelet activating factor (PAF). PAF is a potent pro inflammatory and nociceptive agent released during the inflammation process. Therefore, Gingkolide B can be considered a promising non pharmacological tool for treatment of migraine with and without aura. In an earlier clinical report, we described our initial attempts to assess the clinical utility of Gingkolide B in a small group of young migraine patients. A small sample of 30 young patients suffering from migraine without aura entered the open-label prospective trial. Migraine without aura was diagnosed according to International Headache Society (IHS) criteria. The treatment was well tolerated and the compliance was good. Despite the uncontrolled open-label design of this study and the small sample of patients, these data show that Gingkolide B seems to be effective as preventive treatment in reducing migraine attack frequency and in attenuating the use of symptomatic medication in our small series of children with primary headache.

UI  - 21533739
TI  - Ear acupuncture in the treatment of migraine attacks: a randomized trial on the efficacy of appropriate versus inappropriate acupoints.
AB  - Ear acupuncture can be a useful mean for controlling migraine pain. It has been shown that a technique called the Needle Contact Test (NCT) can identify the most efficacious ear acupoints for reducing current migraine pain through just a few seconds of needle contact. The majority of the points were located on the antero-internal part of the antitragus (area M) on the same side of pain. The aim of this study was to verify the therapeutic value of area M and to compare it with an area of the ear (representation of the sciatic nerve, area S) which probably does not have a therapeutic effect on migraine attacks. We studied 94 females suffering from migraine without aura, diagnosed according to the ICHD-II criteria, during the attack. They were randomly subdivided into two groups: in group A, tender points located in area M, positive to NCT were inserted; in group B, the unsuitable area (S) was treated. Changes in pain intensity were measured using a VAS scale at various times of the study. During treatment, there was a highly significant trend in the reduction of the VAS value in group A (Anova for repeated measures: p<0.001), whereas no significance was observed in group B. VAS values were significantly lower in group A than in group B at 10, 30, 60 and 120min after needle insertion. This study suggests that the therapeutic specificity of auricular points exists and is linked to the somatotopic representation of our body on the ear.

UI  - 21533723
TI  - Efficacy of frovatriptan in the acute treatment of menstrually related migraine: analysis of a double-blind, randomized, multicenter, Italian, comparative study versus zolmitriptan.
AB  - Menstrually related migraine (MRM) is a particularly difficult-to-treat pain condition, associated with substantial disability. Aim of this study was to compare the efficacy and safety of frovatriptan and zolmitriptan in the treatment of MRM attacks, analyzing data from a multicenter, randomized, double blind, cross-over study. We analyzed the subset of 76 regularly menstruating women who participated in one head-to-head multicenter, randomized, double blind, cross-over clinical trial and who took the study drugs to treat MRM attacks. In a randomized sequence, each patient received frovatriptan 2.5mg or zolmitriptan 2.5mg: after treating three episodes of migraine in no more than 3months with the first treatment, the patient had to switch to the other treatment. MRM was defined according to the criteria listed in the Appendix of the last Classification of Headache disorders of the International Headache Society. A total of 73 attacks, classified as MRM, were treated with frovatriptan and 65 with zolmitriptan. Rate of pain relief at 2h was 52% for frovatriptan and 53% for zolmitriptan (p=NS), while rate of pain free at 2h was 22 and 26% (p=NS), respectively. At 24h, 74 and 83% of frovatriptan-treated and 69 and 82% of zolmitriptan-treated patients were pain free and had pain relief, respectively (p=NS). Recurrence at 24h was significantly (p<0.05) lower with frovatriptan (15 vs. 22% zolmitriptan). Frovatriptan proved to be effective in the immediate treatment of MRM attacks, similarly to zolmitriptan, but showed lower recurrence rates, and thus a better sustained relief.

UI  - 21532361
TI  - Efficacy, safety, and tolerability of sertraline on depressive symptoms in women with comorbid migraine: an open-label study.
AB  - 

UI  - 21530095
TI  - A new horizon into the pathobiology, etiology and treatment of migraine.
AB  - Sexual dimorphism in the prevalence of migraine (70% women 30% men) suggests the involvement of reproductive hormones in a women's life. Excessive estrogen during menstruation directly stimulate estrogen receptor alpha thickly populated in trigeminal ganglia and periaqueductal gray which manifest as menstrual migraine. In contrast increased progesterone during pregnancy evokes progesterone receptors A/B, which coexist with ERs, providing complete remission from migraine episodes. Moreover, estrogen also increases nociception through extracellularly signal-regulated kinase (ERK) stimulation and down-regulating antinociceptive GABA, IL-R1 and Zn-fingers. Hormones may provoke migraine indirectly by disrupting mineral homeostasis. Estrogen enhances the absorption and half-life of copper which in turn inhibits the absorption of zinc. Zinc is required for the synthesis of melatonin and CoQ10 essential for growing women. Excess of copper exacerbates the deficiency of zinc, melatonin and CoQ10 typically low in migraineurs. Melatonin is an antioxidant, free radical scavenger and activates antioxidant enzymes like CuZn-superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase (a Se-enzyme) and glutathione reductase. Zinc deficiency reduces activity of CuZn-SOD. Magnesium and vitamin B6 modulates the level of NO in the cell, both of which are deficient in migraineurs. Magnesium is essential for the removal of trapped NO from within the cell which does not occur under low magnesium levels, which reacts with superoxide generating dangerous peroxynitrite. Iron stimulates nitric oxide synthase producing more NO which is inhibited by zinc, thus, antagonizing peroxynitrite generation. Female hormones lowers magnesium but increase calcium levels which enhance migraine ubiquitousness. Accumulation of copper and iron in deep areas of brain and peripheral nerves typically catalyses the oxidation of catecholamines and generate free radicals involved in lipid-peroxidation, demyelination, denudation of axons and neurodegeneration in specific areas exposing hyperalgesic axons provoking Classical migraine. Furthermore, zinc is an essential component of Zn-fingers (Krox20 and Krox24) which play a pivotal role in the differentiation of Schwann cells-the mainstay for the myelination/remyelination of peripheral nerves. Taken together, conceptually and logically, 30 migraineurs were administered 75 mg of zinc sulfate orally in water daily for 6 weeks+one capsule of vitamin B-complex+one capsule of vitamin A or E (first 10 days) which almost cured all of them. Placebo controlled trials with incremental doses of zinc sulfate along with magnesium and selenium are proposed to augment recovery involving large population of migraineurs. Monitoring of hair and blood mineral analysis for rational therapy is recommended.

UI  - 21521204
TI  - Sumatriptan-naproxen sodium for menstrual migraine and dysmenorrhea: satisfaction, productivity, and functional disability outcomes.
AB  - A fixed-dose combination tablet containing sumatriptan and naproxen sodium significantly improved patient satisfaction, productivity, and restoration of normal functioning in menstrual migraineurs with dysmenorrhea.

UI  - 21506633
TI  - Multimodal behavioral treatment of migraine: an Internet-administered, randomized, controlled trial.
AB  - MBT administered over the Internet appears feasible and effective in the treatment of migraine, but no effect of hand massage was found. For increased knowledge on long-term effects and the modes of action of the present MBT program, further studies are needed.

UI  - 21497557
TI  - Should "migralepsy" be considered an obsolete concept? A multicenter retrospective clinical/EEG study and review of the literature.
AB  - The few reports that have been published on the current International Classification of Headache Disorders, Second Edition (ICHD-II), criteria for migralepsy and hemicrania epileptica have highlighted the considerable confusion regarding this "hot topic" within both headache and epilepsy classifications (ICHD-II and International League Against Epilepsy [ILAE]). Indeed, the ICHD-II describes a migraine-triggered seizure as a rare event in which a seizure occurs during migraine aura; on the other hand, hemicrania epileptica is described as an "ictal headache" that occurs "synchronously" with a partial seizure. To confuse matters even further, neither the term migralepsy nor the term hemicrania epileptica is included in the currently used ILAE classification. On the basis of both a review of "migralepsy" cases in the literature and 16 additional retrospective multicenter cases, we suggest that the term migraine-triggered seizure or migralepsy be deleted from the ICHD-II classification until unequivocal evidence is provided of its existence, and that the term ictal epileptic headache be introduced into the ILAE classification.

UI  - 21481754
TI  - Cognitive effects of topiramate in migraine patients aged 12-17 years.
AB  - 

UI  - 21479703
TI  - Efficacy and tolerability of pregabalin as preventive treatment for migraine: a 3-month follow-up study.
AB  - Migraine is a common neurological disorder and epidemiological studies have documented its high social and economic impact. Unfortunately, preventive treatment is often insufficient to substantially reduce migraine frequency or it is not well tolerated. Antiepileptic drugs are increasingly used in migraine prevention. However, data on efficacy and tolerability of pregabalin in patients with migraine are still lacking. Our aim was to evaluate efficacy and tolerability of pregabalin in patients with migraine. We recruited 47 patients who started pregabalin at 75mg/day, which was titrated to 300mg/day as tolerated. A total of six patients (13%) reported one or more side effects during the intake of pregabalin; however, three of them discontinued pregabalin, because side effects were intolerable and persistent. Statistically significant reduction in migraine frequency compared to baseline (p<0.001) was evident after 1 and 3months of treatment. A greater frequency reduction was observed in those patients who increased the dosage within the first month of therapy. Our data suggest that pregabalin may be well tolerated and may represent an alternative preventive treatment in migraneurs. Limitations of the present study were a small sample size and an uncontrolled, open-label design; further randomized case-control studies are warranted to confirm our findings.

UI  - 21472632
TI  - Aerobic exercise as a therapy option for migraine: a pilot study.
AB  - Exercise is assumed to have a positive effect on migraine. However, none of the few studies on this topic can prove the expected positive influence of exercise. Therefore, the aim of this pilot study was to develop a training program suitable for migraine patients and to examine its effect on migraine. 16 patients were examined. 8 migraine patients completed a 10-week aerobic running exercise program consisting of 3 workouts per week. The program was developed by sports scientists especially to increase the fitness level. Physical fitness, i.e., physical working capacity, was assessed using a PWC 150 test. There was also a control group of 8 patients without any special physical training. Migraine patients of the exercise group showed both a reduction in the number of migraine days per month (p=0.048) and the intensity of the attacks (p=0.028). An increase in fitness level resulted in a lowered stress level. Stress strategies like "displacement activity" (r=-0.715; p=0.046), "looking for self-affirmation" (r=-0.742; p=0.035) and "feelings of aggression" (r=-0.802; p=0.017) were reduced. Increasing the level of fitness (PWC 150) is one predictor for migraine improvement (r=0.409, p=0.031). Aerobic exercise which leads to a better fitness level is an alternative therapy method for migraine.

UI  - 21457240
TI  - Topiramate vs divalproex sodium in the preventive treatment of migraine: a prospective "real-world" study.
AB  - Although any conclusions from this investigation necessarily are limited because of our study's open-label nonrandomized design, these results suggest that TPM and DVP are reasonably effective and generally well tolerated when used to treat a "real-world" population of episodic migraineurs who require prophylaxis.

UI  - 21457238
TI  - Randomized controlled study of telcagepant plus ibuprofen or acetaminophen in migraine.
AB  - The combination of telcagepant 280 mg with either ibuprofen 400 mg or acetaminophen 1000 mg did not show a statistically significant difference from telcagepant alone. Numerically greater treatment effects in the combination treatment groups over the telcagepant 280 mg monotherapy suggest that telcagepant combination treatments may merit further evaluation in studies powered to detect smaller additive benefits. (Clinicaltrials.gov; NCT00758836).

UI  - 21457235
TI  - MAP0004, orally inhaled DHE: a randomized, controlled study in the acute treatment of migraine.
AB  - In this study, MAP0004 was effective and well tolerated for the acute treatment of migraine with or without aura, providing statistically significant pain relief and freedom from photophobia, phonophobia, and nausea in adults with migraine compared with placebo.

UI  - 21445630
TI  - Peri-ictal and inter-ictal headache in children and adolescents with idiopathic epilepsy: a multicenter cross-sectional study.
AB  - Post-ictal headaches were most frequent (62%). Pre-ictal headaches were less common (30%). Inter-ictal headaches were described in 57.6%. Clear migrainous features were present in 93% of pre-ictal and 81.4% of post-ictal headaches. Inter-ictal headaches meet criteria for migraines in 87%. The association between partial epilepsy and migraine without aura is most common and reported in 82% of our patients with peri-ictal headache and in 76.5% of patients with post-ictal headache.

UI  - 21440878
TI  - A clinical pilot study comparing traditional acupuncture to combined acupuncture for treating headache, trigeminal neuralgia and retro-auricular pain in facial palsy.
AB  - Traditional acupuncture (TA) and ear acupuncture (EA) are used for treatment of headache, trigeminal neuralgia, and retro-auricular pain. The purpose of this study is to develop effective treatment using combined acupuncture (CA) which consists of TA and EA and to set clinical protocols for future trials. Participants were divided into TA (n = 15) control and CA (n = 34) experimental groups. Obligatory points among Korean Five Element Acupuncture and optional individual points along with symptom points were used in the TA group. The CA group was exposed to ear points of Fossion and TA. Acupuncture treatment consisted of six mandatory sessions per patient over 3 weeks and extended to 12 sessions. Pain was assessed using the visual analogue scale. We compared TA to CA and researched their relevant publications. No significant difference was observed between the two groups (p = 0.968) which showed pain-alleviating tendency. Pain alleviation was significantly different after the fifth and sixth sessions (p = 0.021, p = 0.025), with headache being the most significantly relieved (F = 4.399, p = 0.018) among the diseases. When assessing pain intensity, both the Headache Impact Test and the Migraine Disability Assessment Scale should be adopted for headache and the fractal electroencephalography method be used in pain diseases. In the future, studies should consist of TA, EA, and CA groups; each group having 20 patients. Treatment number should to be no less than 10 sessions. Korean Five Element Acupuncture should be a compulsory inclusion along with individual points being optional inclusion in TA. EA could be selected from Nogier, Fossion and so forth. In conclusion, acupuncture treatment, whether TA or CA, showed pain alleviation in headache, trigeminal neuralgia, and retro-auricular pain, but no significant difference was seen between groups. Prospective, well-controlled, and relevant protocols using multimodal strategies to define the role of TA, EA, and CA are needed.

UI  - 21437714
TI  - A double-blind, randomized, multicenter, Italian study of frovatriptan versus almotriptan for the acute treatment of migraine.
AB  - The objective of this study was to evaluate patients' satisfaction with acute treatment of migraine with frovatriptan or almotriptan by preference questionnaire. One hundred and thirty three subjects with a history of migraine with or without aura (IHS 2004 criteria), with at least one migraine attack in the preceding 6months, were enrolled and randomized to frovatriptan 2.5mg or almotriptan 12.5mg, treating 1-3 attacks. The study had a multicenter, randomized, double blind, cross-over design, with treatment periods lasting <3months. At study end patients assigned preference to one of the treatments using a questionnaire with a score from 0 to 5 (primary endpoint). Secondary endpoints were pain free and pain relief episodes at 2 and 4h, and recurrent and sustained pain free episodes within 48h. Of the 133 patients (86%, intention-to-treat population) 114 of them expressed a preference for a triptan. The average preference score was not significantly different between frovatriptan (3.11.3) and almotriptan (3.41.3). The rates of pain free (30% frovatriptan vs. 32% almotriptan) and pain relief (54% vs. 56%) episodes at 2h did not significantly differ between treatments. This was the case also at 4h (pain free: 56% vs. 59%; pain relief: 75% vs. 72%). Recurrent episodes were significantly (P<0.05) less frequent under frovatriptan (30% vs. 44%), also for the attacks treated within 30min. No significant differences were observed in sustained pain free episodes (21% vs. 18%). The tolerability profile was similar between the two drugs. In conclusion, our study suggests that frovatriptan has a similar efficacy of almotriptan in the short-term, while some advantages are observed during long-term treatment.

UI  - 21435214
TI  - Adverse events associated with acupuncture: three multicentre randomized controlled trials of 1968 cases in China.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT00599586, NCT00599677, NCT00608660.

UI  - 21429523
TI  - The effect of propranolol on cerebrovascular reactivity to visual stimulation in migraine.
AB  - Considering that CVR was decreased but the baseline MFV was not changed in the posterior cerebral artery prior to the visual stimulation in migraineurs after propranolol treatment, we assume that the protective effect of propranolol was not due to the direct effect on the cerebral vessels but due to the modulation of the CVR to sensory stimulation through its action on central centers associated with autonomic vascular tone.

UI  - 21414105
TI  - Migrainous infarction: a Nordic multicenter study.
AB  - The prevalence of traditional risk factors was low and the infarctions were predominantly located in posterior circulation territory, supporting theories of migraine specific mechanisms. The outcome was in general favorable.

UI  - 21402387
TI  - Triggers, symptoms, and treatment in two populations of migraneurs in Brazil and Spain. A cross-cultural study.
AB  - Brazilians migraneurs are more often undertreated for migraine, and underutilization of triptans and preventatives was observed.

UI  - 21398419
TI  - Cathodal transcranial direct current stimulation of the visual cortex in the prophylactic treatment of migraine.
AB  - Our results suggest that the application of cathodal stimulation over the V1 might be an effective prophylactic therapy in migraine, at least with regard to pain control.

UI  - 21385086
TI  - Efficacy of osteopathic manipulative treatment of female patients with migraine: results of a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - This study affirms the effects of OMT on migraine headache in regard to decreased pain intensity and the reduction of number of days with migraine as well as working disability, and partly on improvement of HRQoL. Future studies with a larger sample size should reproduce the results with a control group receiving placebo treatment in a long-term follow-up.

UI  - 21383045
TI  - Randomized controlled trial of the CGRP receptor antagonist MK-3207 in the acute treatment of migraine.
AB  - MK-3207 was effective and generally well tolerated in the acute treatment of migraine.

UI  - 21375763
TI  - Migraine headaches in chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS): comparison of two prospective cross-sectional studies.
AB  - Georgetown University IRB # 2006-481

UI  - 21375020
TI  - [Effect of otopoint-needle embedment on headache and plasma 5-HT content in migraine patients].
AB  - Otopoint-needle implant can effectively relieve headache in migraine patients and upregulate plasma 5-HT level.

UI  - 21309444
TI  - QEEG-guided neurofeedback for recurrent migraine headaches.
AB  - Seventy-one patients with recurrent migraine headaches, aged 17-62, from one neurological practice, completed a quantitative electroencephalogram (QEEG) procedure. All QEEG results indicated an excess of high-frequency beta activity (21-30 Hz) in 1-4 cortical areas. Forty-six of the 71 patients selected neurofeedback training while the remaining 25 chose to continue on drug therapy. Neurofeedback protocols consisted of reducing 21-30 Hz activity and increasing 10 Hz activity (5 sessions for each affected site). All the patients were classified as migraine without aura. For the neurofeedback group the majority (54%) experienced complete cessation of their migraines, and many others (39%) experienced a reduction in migraine frequency of greater than 50%. Four percent experienced a decrease in headache frequency of < 50%. Only one patient did not experience a reduction in headache frequency. The control group of subjects who chose to continue drug therapy as opposed to neurofeedback experienced no change in headache frequency (68%), a reduction of less than 50% (20%), or a reduction greater than 50% (8%). QEEG-guided neurofeedback appears to be dramatically effective in abolishing or significantly reducing headache frequency in patients with recurrent migraine.

UI  - 21298315
TI  - Experience with onabotulinumtoxinA (BOTOX) in chronic refractory migraine: focus on severe attacks.
AB  - The objective of this study is to analyse our experience in the treatment of refractory chronic migraine (CM) with onabotulinumtoxinA (BTA) and specifically in its effects over disabling attacks. Patients with CM and inadequate response or intolerance to oral preventatives were treated with pericranial injections of 100 U of TBA every 3 months. The dose was increased up to 200 U in case of no response. The patients kept a headache diary. In addition, we specifically asked on the effect of BTA on the frequency of disabling attacks, consumption of triptans and visits to Emergency for the treatment of severe attacks. This series comprises a total of 35 patients (3 males), aged 24-68 years. All except three met IHS criteria for analgesic overuse. The number of sessions with BTA ranged from 2 to 15 (median 4) and nine (26%) responded (reduction of >50% in headache days). However, the frequency of severe attacks was reduced to an average of 46%. Oral triptan consumption (29 patients) was reduced by 50% (from an average of 22 to 11 tablets/month). Those six patients who used subcutaneous sumatriptan reduced its consumption to a mean of 69% (from 4.5 to 1.5 injections per month). Emergency visits went from an average of 3 to 0.4 per trimester (-83%). Six patients complained of mild adverse events, transient local cervical pain being the most common. Although our data must be taken with caution as this is an open trial, in clinical practice treatment of refractory CM with BTA reduces the frequency of disabling attacks, the consumption of triptans and the need of visits to Emergency, which makes this treatment a profitable option both clinically and pharmacoeconomically.

UI  - 21296523
TI  - Prochlorperazine in children with migraine: a look at its effectiveness and rate of akathisia.
AB  - Prochlorperazine seems very effective to decrease pain on a short-term basis in children. However, more than two thirds of the patients, overall, had a relapse of their migraine at home in the first week. Despite the use of diphenhydramine, akathisia remains a concern.

UI  - 21287488
TI  - [Personality factors, degree of disability and therapeutic management of patients with migraine visiting a neurology unit for the first time (Psicomig study)].
AB  - This study confirms the impact of migraine in terms of disability and in terms of loss of labour output, together with its association with personality factors.

UI  - 21269300
TI  - Body mass index and adult weight gain among reproductive age women with migraine.
AB  - These data support earlier observations of migraine-obesity association among women, and extend the literature to include evidence of adult weight gain among women with a history of pediatric migraine.

UI  - 21269298
TI  - Frovatriptan as preemptive treatment for fasting-induced migraine.
AB  - More subjects on placebo developed a headache than those on frovatriptan. Perhaps because of the small number of subjects involved, the differences in headache incidences observed did not achieve statistical significance.

UI  - 21250937
TI  - Elderly patients with migraine: an open-label study on prophylaxis therapy with levetiracetam.
AB  - In the last years, the hypothesis that cortical hyperexcitability may play a role in the physiopathology of migraine led to the therapeutic use of some antiepileptic drugs. To evaluate the efficacy of levetiracetam as prophylactic treatment for migraine without aura in elderly patients. We performed a small open-label trial treating 13 elderly patients(8F 5M) mean age 64.7 years (SD 3.4), range 60-72 years affected by migraine without aura (ICDH '04 criteria). The mean age of disease was 21.3 years (SD13.4) range 2-45 years. At baseline: the frequency of attacks was 12.2/month (SD 5.9), range 6-25; the mean number of drugs for acute attacks was 12.6 (SD 6.5) tablets/month. All patients took concomitant medication for other chronic diseases. After recruitment Levetiracetam 500 mg/die was administered for 1 week and 1000 mg/die for six months. The basal frequency of attack was 12,2 (SD 5.9) and 8,3 (SD 4.9), 4,1 (SD2.6), 1,3 (SD1.4) after 1, 3 and 6 months respectively [P=0.079; P<0.0001; P<0.0001].The basal value of intaking drugs for acute attacks was 12,6 (SD 6.5) and 6,7 (SD 4.3), 2,8 (SD 2.2), 1,4 (SD1.7) after 1, 3 and six months respectively [P=0.012; P<0.0001; P<0.0001](T-test analysis). Levetiracetam was well tolerated (7 patients complained somnolence, lack of concentration and gastralgia but none patient withdrew the study). In our study levetiracetam showed a good efficacy in frequency and intensity reduction of headache attack and showed a very good tolerability despite all elderly patients took drugs for concomitant diseases.

UI  - 21240023
TI  - Double-blind, placebo-controlled antibiotic treatment study of small intestinal bacterial overgrowth in children with chronic abdominal pain.
AB  - Similar to adults with IBS, the prevalence of abnormal LBT suggesting SIBO in children with CAP is high; however, treatment with 10 days of rifaximin has low efficacy in normalizing LBT in this group. Additional studies are needed to determine whether a treatment approach with higher efficacy would lead to improvement in children with CAP.

UI  - 21227540
TI  - Metoclopramide for acute migraine: a dose-finding randomized clinical trial.
AB  - Twenty milligrams or 40 mg of metoclopramide is no better for acute migraine than 10 mg of metoclopramide.

UI  - 21216871
TI  - Migraine preventive drug-induced weight gain may be mediated by effects on hypothalamic peptides: the results of a pilot study.
AB  - These results suggest that changes in the levels of hypothalamic orexinergic peptides may contribute to body weight increase occurring in migraineurs during amitryptiline or flunarizine prophylactic treatment.

UI  - 21198571
TI  - Key concepts of migraine postdrome: a qualitative study to develop a post-migraine questionnaire.
AB  - Migraine postdrome is debilitating for those who experience it. Concept elicitation and cognitive debriefing research support the relevance of the items in the post-migraine questionnaire. Future research will provide evidence of the post-migraine questionnaire's psychometric properties and interpretation guidelines.

UI  - 21198566
TI  - The effect of prophylactic medications on TMS for migraine aura.
AB  - Prophylactic medications do not appear to influence the treatment response to TMS. The better response in Sham-treated patients not on PM may indicate a more responsive subgroup or different patient phenotype than those currently using PM. These findings will need to be verified in a larger patient sample randomized by presence or absence of PM.

UI  - 21198449
TI  - Cerebrovascular reactivity to l-arginine in the anterior and posterior cerebral circulation in migraine patients.
AB  - OBJECTIVE- Cerebral infarction preferentially affects the posterior cerebral artery distribution in migraine patients. The results obtained from the few known studies that have compared the anterior and posterior cerebral endothelial function are contradictory. To the best of our knowledge, cerebrovascular reactivity to L-arginine (CVR), measured by transcranial Doppler sonography (TCD), has not been previously used to determine the posterior cerebral endothelial function in migraine patients with (MwA) and without aura (MwoA). MATERIALS AND METHODS- Forty migraine patients without comorbidities (20MwA, 20MwoA) and 20 healthy subjects were included. By employing strict inclusion criteria, we avoided the possible vascular risk factors. Mean arterial velocity in the middle cerebral artery (MCA) and the posterior cerebral artery (PCA) was measured by TCD before and after infusion of L-arginine, and CVR to L-arginine was then calculated. RESULTS-All migraine patients had lower CVR to L-arginine in PCA (P = 0.002) and similar in MCA (P = 0.29) compared to healthy subjects. This difference was also present in MwA and MwoA compared to healthy subjects (P = 0.003). CONCLUSIONS- Lower CVR to L-arginine in PCA in migraine patients could associate migraine and cerebral infarcts that are more common in the posterior cerebral artery distribution.

UI  - 21172952
TI  - BI 44370 TA, an oral CGRP antagonist for the treatment of acute migraine attacks: results from a phase II study.
AB  - Efficacy of BI 44370 TA was shown in a dose-dependent manner in the treatment of acute migraine attacks.

UI  - 21145540
TI  - Migraine in women with chronic pelvic pain with and without endometriosis.
AB  - Migraine headache is common in women with chronic pelvic pain, regardless of endometriosis, and contributes to disability in those with both conditions. The strong association suggests a common pathophysiology.

UI  - 21122466
TI  - Investigation of carbachol and PACAP38 in a human model of migraine.
AB  - The parasympathetic signalling molecules acetylcholine, pituitary adenylate cyclase activating peptide-38 (PACAP38) and vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) may be released from parasympathetic fibres and activate sensory nerve fibres during migraine attacks. Recently, it was shown that VIP does not induce migraine-like attacks in migraine patients. Interestingly, PACAP38 activates the same VPAC receptors as VIP, but also specifically activates the PAC1 receptor. The present thesis includes four double-blind placebo-controlled crossover studies aimed to explore the role of acetylcholine, PACAP and VIP in migraine and head pain. In study I-III we investigated acetylcholine, via the analogue carbachol, and PACAP38 in a human model of migraine. In study IV we studied if PACAP38 and VIP might induce central sensitization, neurogenic inflammation and mast cell degranulation in a cutaneous model of acute pain. Study I-II showed that carbachol induced short lasting mild headache and moderate cephalic vasodilatation in both healthy volunteers and migraine patients, but did not induce migraine-like attacks. In study III PACAP38 induced headache in healthy subjects and delayed migraine-like attacks in migraine patients as well as sustained dilatation of cephalic vessels. In study IV VIP and PACAP38 evoked skin pain, central sensitization, neurogenic inflammation and mast cell degranulation, but VIP showed to be more potent than PACAP38 in inducing neurogenic inflammation and mast cell degranulation. In conclusion, we found that carbachol infusion was not a good model for experimental migraine provocation, probably because the maximal dose was insufficient to produce enough nitric oxide to trigger migraine. PACAP38 infusion is a new pathway for migraine induction and the results from study IV suggest that neurogenic inflammation and mast cell degranulation are unlikely to cause PACAP38 induced migraine. The present thesis contributes to our knowledge on migraine pathophysiology and suggests PAC1 receptor antagonism as a new target for migraine treatment.

UI  - 21119534
TI  - Hypertension and migraine comorbidity: prevalence and risk of cerebrovascular events: evidence from a large, multicenter, cross-sectional survey in Italy (MIRACLES study).
AB  - This cross-sectional study indicates that the prevalence of comorbidity hypertension-migraine is substantial and that patients with comorbidity have a higher probability of history of cerebrovascular events, compared to hypertensive patients.

UI  - 21106957
TI  - Predictors of migraine subtypes in young adults with ischemic stroke: the italian project on stroke in young adults.
AB  - in young adults with ischemic stroke, low cardiovascular risk profile, right-to-left shunt, and an underlying procoagulant state are predictors of migraine with aura. The biological effects of these factors should be considered in future studies aimed at investigating the mechanisms linking migraine to brain ischemia.

UI  - 21098109
TI  - Photic EEG-driving responses related to ictal phases and trigger sensitivity in migraine: a longitudinal, controlled study.
AB  - Earlier results may have overestimated the driving response in migraine due to inclusion of recordings during the preictal interval and/or habituation among controls. Abnormal photic driving may be related to the pathophysiology of clinical sensory hypersensitivity.

UI  - 21083558
TI  - Prophylactic botulinum type A toxin complex (Dysport) for migraine without aura.
AB  - Limitations in study design and assessment tools employed may have contributed to the inconclusive nature of the primary end point data. Dysport-240 showed significant benefit over placebo at some end points and further trials with more appropriate outcome measures are required to evaluate effectively this treatment.

UI  - 21078681
TI  - Efficacy and tolerability of rizatriptan for the treatment of acute migraine in sumatriptan non-responders.
AB  - Rizatriptan 10-mg ODT was superior to placebo at providing two-hour pain relief and two-hour pain freedom in the treatment of acute migraine in those who do not respond to sumatriptan 100mg. Rizatriptan was generally well tolerated in this population.

UI  - 21070231
TI  - Amitriptyline in the prophylactic treatment of migraine and chronic daily headache.
AB  - In this study, using headache frequency as the primary metric, for the entire group, amitriptyline was superior to placebo in migraine prophylaxis at 8 weeks but, because of a robust placebo response, not at subsequent time points. For the subgroup with CDH, amitriptyline was statistically significantly superior to placebo at 8 weeks and 16 weeks with a similar but nonsignificant trend at 12 and 20 weeks. Compared with placebo amitriptyline is effective in CDH. Amitriptyline was also significantly effective in IM compared intragroup to its own baseline; however, placebo was equally effective in the same analysis. The reason for the robust placebo response in the IM group is not clear, but has been occasionally reported.

UI  - 21070230
TI  - Long-term tolerability of telcagepant for acute treatment of migraine in a randomized trial.
AB  - Telcagepant was generally well tolerated when administered for the acute intermittent treatment of migraine for up to 18 months. The incidences of triptan-related and drug-related adverse events favored telcagepant over rizatriptan.

UI  - 21070228
TI  - A multi-center double-blind pilot comparison of onabotulinumtoxinA and topiramate for the prophylactic treatment of chronic migraine.
AB  - OnabotulinumtoxinA and topiramate demonstrated similar efficacy for subjects with CM as determined by Global Physician Assessment and supported by multiple secondary endpoint measures.

UI  - 21063786
TI  - EuroQol (EQ-5D) health utility scores for patients with migraine.
AB  - Within-attack disutilities estimated for migraine in this study are much greater than those reported for migraine when evaluated as a chronic health condition (e.g., valuations collected at random time points). These data can be of value in adapting results from clinical trials of migraine interventions to cost-utility policy analyses.

UI  - 21059624
TI  - Behavioural treatment programme contributes to normalization of contingent negative variation in children with migraine.
AB  - This study demonstrates that the specific treatment programme which was evolved from knowledge of pathogenetic mechanisms of migraine influences central information processing and leads to a clinical effect.

UI  - 21059503
TI  - Botulinum toxin type A and acute drug costs in migraine with triptan overuse.
AB  - Botulinum toxin type A prophylactic therapy markedly decreased costs related to acute headache medication use in patients with chronic migraine and triptan overuse.

UI  - 21058472
TI  - [Study on the best solution of immediate analgesia of acupuncture for migraine].
AB  - In the attack stage of migraine, by the therapy combined with puncture on local and distal points and the points according to the differentiation, auricular electroacupuncture and bloodletting at Taiyang Zimai or Taiyang (EX-HN 5) and Ashi points, the favorable effects of immediate analgesia are received.

UI  - 21054362
TI  - Antimigraine efficacy of telcagepant based on patient's historical triptan response.
AB  - This suggests that different patients may respond to triptans or telcagepant 300 mg. Caution should be exercised in interpreting the results because of the post-hoc nature of the analysis (clinical trial registry: NCT00442936).

UI  - 21051670
TI  - Study design of the CLOSURE I Trial: a prospective, multicenter, randomized, controlled trial to evaluate the safety and efficacy of the STARFlex septal closure system versus best medical therapy in patients with stroke or transient ischemic attack due to presumed paradoxical embolism through a patent foramen ovale.
AB  - This trial should provide information as to whether the STARFlex septal closure system is safe and more effective than best medical therapy alone in preventing recurrent stroke/TIA and mortality in patients with PFO and whether the STARFlex septal closure device can demonstrate superiority compared with best medical therapy alone. Clinical Trial Registration-URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00201461.

UI  - 20975054
TI  - Prophylaxis of migraine with melatonin: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - This study provides Class I evidence that 2 mg of prolonged release melatonin given 1 hour before bedtime for a duration of 8 weeks did not result in a reduction in migraine frequency compared with placebo (p = 0.497).

UI  - 20974611
TI  - Osmophobia in migraine classification: a multicentre study in juvenile patients.
AB  - In conclusion, this study demonstrates that this new approach, proposed in the Appendix (A1.1), appears easy to apply and should improve the diagnostic standard of ICHD-II in young patients too.

UI  - 20974610
TI  - Medium-dose riboflavin as a prophylactic agent in children with migraine: a preliminary placebo-controlled, randomised, double-blind, cross-over trial.
AB  - In this group of children with migraine, there is no evidence that 50 mg riboflavin has a prophylactic effect on migraine attacks. We found some evidence that 50 mg riboflavin may have a prophylactic effect on interval headaches that may correspond to mild migraine attacks or tension-type headache attacks in children with migraine.

UI  - 20974604
TI  - Lack of efficacy of the selective iNOS inhibitor GW274150 in prophylaxis of migraine headache.
AB  - GW274150 at doses predicted to inhibit iNOS >80% did not differ from placebo in the prophylaxis of migraine. The results do not support a role of iNOS inhibition in migraine prevention.

UI  - 20974601
TI  - Randomized, controlled trial of telcagepant over four migraine attacks.
AB  - Telcagepant 140 mg and 280 mg were effective for treatment of a migraine attack and were more consistently effective than control for intermittent treatment of up to four migraine attacks. Telcagepant was generally well tolerated. (Clinicaltrials.gov; NCT00483704).

UI  - 20974598
TI  - Topiramate intervention to prevent transformation of episodic migraine: the topiramate INTREPID study.
AB  - Topiramate 100mg/day did not prevent the development of CDH at six months in subjects with HFEM. Topiramate was effective in reducing headache days and migraine headache days and generally well tolerated.

UI  - 20966820
TI  - Five-year outcome of surgical treatment of migraine headaches.
AB  - Based on the 5-year follow-up data, there is strong evidence that surgical manipulation of one or more migraine trigger sites can successfully eliminate or reduce the frequency, duration, and intensity of migraine headache in a lasting manner.

UI  - 20965755
TI  - Oral nitric-oxide donor glyceryl-trinitrate induces sensitization in spinal cord pain processing in migraineurs: a double-blind, placebo-controlled, cross-over study.
AB  - Nitric-oxide donor glyceryl-trinitrate (GTN) modulates cerebral and spinal regions that are involved in migraine and pain processing. We hypothesized that in migraineurs, the susceptibility to develop a migraine attack after GTN administration should parallel with an high sensitivity to GTN-induced change in the pain processing at spinal level. We used the temporal summation threshold (TST) of the lower limb nociceptive withdrawal reflex (NWR) and the related pain sensation to study in parallel the time-course of the effect of the GTN administration on the pain processing at spinal level in migraine and healthy subjects. Twenty-eight (21 F; 7M; mean age 34.2  8.2) migraine and 15 (11 F; 4M; mean age 35.9  8.9) healthy subjects were recruited in a double-blind, placebo-controlled, cross-over trial. Neurophysiological examinations were carried out before (baseline) and 30', 60', 120', 180' and 240' after GTN (0.9 mg sublingual) or placebo administration during two different sessions. In migraineurs, GTN administration was associated to a significant facilitation in temporal summation of pain (reduced TST and increased painful sensation) 60', 120' and 180' after drug intake when compared to baseline, to placebo condition and to controls after GTN intake. Furthermore, in migraineurs who developed migraine after GTN, a significant facilitation in temporal summation of pain was detected 60', 120' and 180' after drug intake when compared to patients without clinical response. In migraineurs the susceptibility to develop migraine attack after GTN administration seems to be a specific trait of a subgroup of patients linked to a supersensitivity of the pain system to GTN.

UI  - 20959430
TI  - No arguments for increased endothelial nitric oxide synthase activity in migraine based on peripheral biomarkers.
AB  - The results of the present study do not support the idea of a generalised increase in NO synthase activity in migraine patients outside of a migraine attack. The smaller increase in plasma L-citrulline, urinary nitrate and cGMP excretion following L-arginine infusion in migraine patients might indicate dysfunction of endothelial NO synthase.

UI  - 20959429
TI  - CGRP receptor antagonist olcegepant (BIBN4096BS) does not prevent glyceryl trinitrate-induced migraine.
AB  - The present study indicates that NO does not induce migraine by liberating CGRP. The most likely explanation for our findings is that CGRP has its effect higher than NO in the cascade of events leading to MO attacks.

UI  - 20959428
TI  - Efficacy and tolerability of a new powdered formulation of diclofenac potassium for oral solution for the acute treatment of migraine: results from the International Migraine Pain Assessment Clinical Trial (IMPACT).
AB  - This study shows that this formulation of diclofenac potassium for oral solution is effective in reducing pain intensity within 30 minutes, which may be related to the 15-minute T(max) associated with this formulation. The rapid-onset benefits were sustained through 24 hours post-treatment.

UI  - 20959424
TI  - Factors predicting the probability of relapse after discontinuation of migraine preventive treatment with topiramate.
AB  - Relapse after topiramate discontinuation in migraine prophylaxis appears to be unaffected by patient characteristics or baseline migraine frequency.

UI  - 20958294
TI  - Method of injection of onabotulinumtoxinA for chronic migraine: a safe, well-tolerated, and effective treatment paradigm based on the PREEMPT clinical program.
AB  - Chronic migraine (CM) is a prevalent and disabling neurological disorder. Few prophylactic treatments for CM have been investigated. OnabotulinumtoxinA, which inhibits the release of nociceptive mediators, such as glutamate, substance P, and calcitonin gene-related peptide, has been evaluated in randomized, placebo-controlled studies for the preventive treatment of a variety of headache disorders, including CM. These studies have yielded insight into appropriate patient selection, injection sites, dosages, and technique. Initial approaches used a set of fixed sites for the pericranial injections. However, the treatment approach evolved to include other sites that corresponded to the location of pain and tenderness in the individual patient in addition to the fixed sites. The Phase III REsearch Evaluating Migraine Prophylaxis Therapy (PREEMPT) injection paradigm uses both fixed and follow-the-pain sites, with additional specific follow-the-pain sites considered depending on individual symptoms. The PREEMPT paradigm for injecting onabotulinumtoxinA has been shown to be safe, well-tolerated, and effective in well-designed, controlled clinical trials and is the evidence-based approach recommended to optimize clinical outcomes for patients with CM.

UI  - 20937606
TI  - Sustained pain freedom and no adverse events as an endpoint in clinical trials of acute migraine treatments: application to patient-level data from a trial of the CGRP receptor antagonist, telcagepant, and zolmitriptan.
AB  - Composite efficacy-plus-tolerability endpoints may be useful for facilitating comparisons between treatments.

UI  - 20880898
TI  - Effect of preventive (beta blocker) treatment, behavioural migraine management, or their combination on outcomes of optimised acute treatment in frequent migraine: randomised controlled trial.
AB  - Clinical trials NCT00910689.

UI  - 20872034
TI  - Ginkgolide B complex efficacy for brief prophylaxis of migraine in school-aged children: an open-label study.
AB  - Primary headaches (migraines and tension-types headaches) are very common in school-aged children. Ginkgolide B, a herbal constituent extract from Ginkgo biloba tree leaves, was considered as a promising pharmacological aid for the treatment of migraine in adult patients because of its modulation of the glutamatergic transmission in the CNS and on antiplatelet activating factor (PAF). The aim of study is to verify the effectiveness and safety of association of Ginkgolide B/Coenzyme Q10/Riboflavin/Magnesium complex for brief prophylaxis in a population of school-aged children with migraine. In our sample after 3 months of treatment with association of Ginkgolide B/Coenzyme Q10/Riboflavin/Magnesium complex, the mean frequency per month of migraine was significantly decreased (9.71  4.33 vs. 4.53  3.96 attacks; p < 0.001). Our findings suggest that in childhood headache management, the use of alternative treatments must be considered not to evoke a placebo effect, but as soft therapy without adverse reactions.

UI  - 20870875
TI  - Pathophysiology of visual disturbances occurring after foam sclerotherapy.
AB  - These results show that VDs occurring after FS correspond to MA and are not transient ischaemic cerebro-vascular events. We suggest a pathophysiological hypothesis resting on the release of endothelin that would reach the cerebral cortex through a paten foramen ovale.

UI  - 20862509
TI  - Rizatriptan reduces vestibular-induced motion sickness in migraineurs.
AB  - A previous pilot study suggested that rizatriptan reduces motion sickness induced by complex vestibular stimulation. In this double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled study we measured motion sickness in response to a complex vestibular stimulus following pretreatment with either rizatriptan or a placebo. Subjects included 25 migraineurs with or without migraine-related dizziness (23 females) aged 21-45 years (31.0  7.8 years). Motion sickness was induced by off-vertical axis rotation in darkness, which stimulates both the semicircular canals and otolith organs of the vestibular apparatus. Results indicated that of the 15 subjects who experienced vestibular-induced motion sickness when pretreated with placebo, 13 showed a decrease in motion sickness following pretreatment with rizatriptan as compared to pretreatment with placebo (P < 0.02). This significant effect was not seen when subjects were exposed to more provocative vestibular stimulation. We conclude that the serotonin agonist, rizatriptan, reduces vestibular-induced motion sickness by influencing serotonergic vestibular-autonomic projections.

UI  - 20861241
TI  - Occipital nerve stimulation for the treatment of intractable chronic migraine headache: ONSTIM feasibility study.
AB  - The results of this feasibility study offer promise and should prompt further controlled studies of ONS in CM.

UI  - 20855362
TI  - Acute treatment of migraine with the selective 5-HT1F receptor agonist lasmiditan--a randomised proof-of-concept trial.
AB  - At intravenous doses of 20 mg and higher, lasmiditan proved effective in the acute treatment of migraine. Further studies to assess the optimal oral dose and full efficacy and tolerability profile are under way. The non-vascular, neural mechanism of action of lasmiditan may offer an alternative means to treat migraine especially in patients who have contra-indications for agents with vasoconstrictor activity. The clinicaltrials.gov identifier for this study is NCT00384774.

UI  - 20851729
TI  - Sugar alters the level of serum insulin and plasma glucose and the serum cortisol:DHEAS ratio in female migraine sufferers.
AB  - Early work has highlighted that a large percentage of migraineurs may have an altered glucidic methabolis due to carbohydrate-induced hyperinsulinism. The aim of this study was to assess the effect of sucrose on biomarkers of energy metabolism and utilization in migraineous females. A total of 16 participants (8 = Migraine, 8 = Non-migraine) at the mid-point of their menstrual cycle underwent a 15-h fast prior to ingesting 75 g sucrose dissolved in 175 g water. Blood sampling for the assessment of serum insulin, serum cortisol and serum dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHEAS) and plasma glucose was conducted upon arrival at 09:00 h and then at regular 15-min intervals across a 150-min experimental period. The results showed a significant alteration in serum insulin and plasma glucose following sucrose ingestion in the migraine and non-migraine groups. In addition, significant group differences were observed in the level of serum insulin, serum DHEAS, and the cortisol:DHEAS ratio with migraine participants on average recording a higher sucrose-induced serum insulin level and lower DHEAS level and cortisol:DHEAS ratio when group data was compared. It was concluded that while sucrose consumption may potentiate serum insulin in migraineurs this does not result in the development of sucrose-induced hypoglycemia in migraine or non-migraine participants.

UI  - 20825791
TI  - Postdischarge secobarbital after ED migraine treatment decreases pain and improves resolution.
AB  - Addition of postdischarge oral secobarbital to a standard ED migraine treatment regimen decreased headache pain at 24 hours after discharge and improved the rate of headache resolution compared with placebo.

UI  - 20819843
TI  - One-year prevalence of migraine in Spain: a nationwide population-based survey.
AB  - The one-year prevalence of migraine in Spain is 12.6%, with a prevalence of migraine with and without aura of 8.4% and probable migraine of 4.2%. These findings add data to the current understanding of migraine.

UI  - 20812037
TI  - Dynamics of changes in self-efficacy and locus of control expectancies in the behavioral and drug treatment of severe migraine.
AB  - The "deficiency" hypothesis best explained how patient characteristics influenced changes in of headache self-efficacy with Behavioral Migraine Management.

UI  - 20800968
TI  - Prevention of medication overuse in patients with migraine.
AB  - This multi-center study compared the therapeutic effect of a cognitive-behavioral minimal contact program (MCT) to the effect of a brochure (bibliotherapy) for the prevention of medication overuse headache (MOH) in migraine patients. Seven German headache centers recruited 182 migraine patients with high triptan or analgesic intake frequency. Patients were randomly allocated to either the MCT-group, receiving both an MCT program and an educational brochure or to the biblio-group receiving only the brochure. All participants continued usual medical treatment. Course of headaches, intake of analgesics or triptans after training, 3 months post-training as well as 1-2 years (mean 15.7 months) later and psychological variables were defined as outcome variables. A significant decline was observed in the number of headache days (11.0-8.8), migraine days (7.3-5.7) and medication intake days (7.4-6.1) from pre to post in the MCT-group (p<0.001 each) and in the biblio-group (p<0.001 each). The pre-to-post-improvements were maintained from pre- to short- and from pre- to long-term follow-up (p<0.001 each) in both groups. Both groups improved significantly from pre to post in psychological variables, e.g. pain acceptance: p<0.001; pain catastrophizing: p<0.001; functional pain coping: p<0.001; and pain related internal control beliefs: p<0.01. Psychological improvements remained stable in both groups at short- and long-term follow-up. During the study, none of the patients developed an MOH. MCT- and bibliotherapy are useful in migraine patients to prevent medication overuse headache or the transition of episodic to chronic headache.

UI  - 20704458
TI  - Formulation and evaluation of diclofenac potassium fast-disintegrating tablets and their clinical application in migraine patients.
AB  - The aim of this study was to prepare fast-disintegrating tablets (FDTs) of diclofenac potassium with sufficient integrity as well as a pleasant taste, using two different fillers and binders: Tablettose 70() and Di-Pac(). Tablets were made with direct compression method. Tablet properties such as porosity, hardness, and disintegration time were determined. Diclofenac potassium determinations were carried out using a validated spectrophotometric method for the analysis of drug. Furthermore, in vivo experiments were carried out to compare the analgesic effect and the time to relieve migraine headache between the commercial tablets and FDTs of diclofenac potassium against placebo. Results showed that FDTs of diclofenac potassium with durable structure and desirable taste can be prepared using both fillers and binders but tablets prepared with Di-Pac had a better taste so the tablet formulation containing Di-Pac was chosen for in vivo experiments. Placebo controlled in vivo trial demonstrated that 50 mg diclofenac potassium, administered as a single dose of FDTs or commercial tablets, was effective in relieving the pain and both of them were superior to placebo.

UI  - 20686810
TI  - A double-blind, randomized, multicenter, Italian study of frovatriptan versus rizatriptan for the acute treatment of migraine.
AB  - The objective of this study was to assess patient satisfaction with acute treatment of migraine with frovatriptan or rizatriptan by preference questionnaire. 148 subjects with a history of migraine with or without aura (IHS 2004 criteria), with at least one migraine attack per month in the preceding 6 months, were enrolled and randomized to frovatriptan 2.5 mg or rizatriptan 10 mg treating 1-3 attacks. The study had a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, cross-over design, with treatment periods lasting <3 months. At the end of the study, patients assigned preference to one of the treatments using a questionnaire with a score from 0 to 5 (primary endpoint). Secondary endpoints were pain-free and pain relief episodes at 2 h, and recurrent and sustained pain-free episodes within 48 h. 104 of the 125 patients (83%, intention-to-treat population) expressed a preference for a triptan. The average preference score was not significantly different between frovatriptan (2.91.3) and rizatriptan (3.21.1). The rates of pain-free (33% frovatriptan vs. 39% rizatriptan) and pain relief (55 vs. 62%) episodes at 2 h were not significantly different between the two treatments. The rate of recurrent episodes was significantly (p<0.001) lower under frovatriptan (21 vs. 43% rizatriptan). No significant differences were observed in sustained pain-free episodes (26% frovatriptan vs. 22% rizatriptan). The number of patients with adverse events was not significantly different between rizatriptan (34) and frovatriptan (25, p=NS). The results suggest that frovatriptan has a similar efficacy to rizatriptan, but a more prolonged duration of action.

UI  - 20671614
TI  - Attenuated lactate response to ischemic exercise in migraine.
AB  - Our results show that there may be defects in the anaerobic or proximal glycolytic pathways in migraine patients, evident in stressful situations. We also conclude that the FIT may be useful for research on migraine pathophysiology.

UI  - 20670996
TI  - Migraine diagnosis and management in general emergency departments in France.
AB  - Results suggest there is room for improvement in choice of agents prescribed. We propose additional education and training of clinicians to improve adherence to clinical practice guidelines.

UI  - 20660540
TI  - Almotriptan 12.5 mg in menstrually related migraine: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study.
AB  - Almotriptan was significantly more effective than placebo in women with MRM attacks, with consistent efficacy in longer-term follow-up.

UI  - 20656704
TI  - Intranasal sumatriptan powder delivered by a novel breath-actuated bi-directional device for the acute treatment of migraine: A randomised, placebo-controlled study.
AB  - Sumatriptan nasal powder administered using the new device during a migraine attack was effective and well tolerated.

UI  - 20650999
TI  - Perimenstrual migraines and their response to preventive therapy with topiramate.
AB  - Topiramate reduces the frequency, but not severity or duration, of perimenstrual migraines in women with MRM, including migraines with and without aura, and regardless of combined oral contraceptive use.

UI  - 20647175
TI  - Quantifying the return of headache in triptan-treated migraineurs: an observational study.
AB  - To improve understanding of secondary treatment failure in migraine patients, we evaluated 'headache return' as a novel endpoint to assess returning headaches according to their severity, expanding on current standard assessments of overall recurrence or relapse rates, in a six-month observational study of triptan-treated migraineurs. A total of 359 patients (91% female; mean age, 42.5 years) recorded data for 2168 headaches in electronic diaries. Two-thirds of headaches responded to triptan treatment (improved-to-mild or no pain two hours post-dose); 34% of headaches had a pain-free response. By 48 hours post-dose, 19% of all responding headaches returned; 24% of headaches achieving a pain-free response returned, predominantly to mild pain. More severe baseline headache, short duration since diagnosis of migraine, and female gender were associated with increased likelihood of headache return. Treatment satisfaction declined with increasing severity of headache return, demonstrating the value of assessing headache return by severity to fully evaluate its impact.

UI  - 20647174
TI  - Diet restriction in migraine, based on IgG against foods: a clinical double-blind, randomised, cross-over trial.
AB  - This is the first randomised, cross-over study in migraineurs, showing that diet restriction based on IgG antibodies is an effective strategy in reducing the frequency of migraine attacks.

UI  - 20647171
TI  - OnabotulinumtoxinA for treatment of chronic migraine: results from the double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled phase of the PREEMPT 2 trial.
AB  - The results of PREEMPT 2 demonstrate that onabotulinumtoxinA is effective for prophylaxis of headache in adults with chronic migraine. Repeated onabotulinumtoxinA treatments were safe and well tolerated.

UI  - 20647170
TI  - OnabotulinumtoxinA for treatment of chronic migraine: results from the double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled phase of the PREEMPT 1 trial.
AB  - There was no between-group difference for the primary endpoint, headache episodes. However, significant reductions from baseline were observed for onabotulinumtoxinA for headache and migraine days, cumulative hours of headache on headache days and frequency of moderate/severe headache days, which in turn reduced the burden of illness in adults with disabling chronic migraine.

UI  - 20638178
TI  - Neuronal mechanisms during repetitive trigemino-nociceptive stimulation in migraine patients.
AB  - Habituation deficits in various sensory modalities have been observed in migraine patients in several experimental designs. The underlying neuronal mechanisms are, however, still unknown. Past studies have used electrophysiological measures and focussed on habituation behaviour during one single session. We were interested in how repeated painful stimulation over several days is processed, perceived and modulated in migraineurs. Fifteen migraine patients and 15 healthy controls were stimulated daily with a 20 min trigeminal pain paradigm for eight consecutive days, using functional MRI performed on days one and eight and one follow-up measurement three months later. The results demonstrate that migraine patients did not differ in behavioural pain ratings compared to the controls at any time. However, functional imaging data revealed a significant difference in several brain areas over time. The activity level in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and the rostral anterior cingulate cortex (rACC) increased in healthy control subjects from day one to day eight, whereas it decreased in migraine patients. These data suggest that several brain areas known to be involved in endogenous pain control show a completely opposite behaviour in migraine patients compared to healthy controls. These brain networks seem not to be disrupted per se in migraine patients but changed activity over time responding to repetitive nociceptive input. The alteration of pain inhibitory circuits may be the underlying mechanism responsible for the dys-functional neuronal filters of sensory input.

UI  - 20593910
TI  - A randomized trial of propranolol versus sodium valproate for the prophylaxis of migraine in pediatric patients.
AB  - This prospective study supports the efficacy of propranolol and sodium valproate as prophylaxis for pediatric migraine without aura, based on IHS criteria. There were no significant differences between these two drugs in all evaluated parameters except for the mean headache frequency per month, which was lower with propranolol than with sodium valproate.

UI  - 20584227
TI  - Efficacy of almotriptan in early intervention for treatment of acute migraine in a primary care setting: the START study.
AB  - In the primary care setting, early intervention with almotriptan for treatment of migraine provides significant clinical benefits compared with delaying treatment and/or waiting until pain intensity has progressed beyond mild.

UI  - 20571294
TI  - The influence of dexamethasone and ketolgan on postoperative nausea and vomiting and estimation of risk factors in women undergoing gynecologic laparoscopic surgeries.
AB  - Preoperative medication with dexamethasone significantly reduces the incidence of postoperative nausea and vomiting. Avoidance of opioids for postoperative analgesia reduces the incidence of postoperative nausea and vomiting. Migraine and motion sickness are independent risk factors for postoperative nausea and vomiting.

UI  - 20569223
TI  - Intravenous sodium valproate aborts migraine headaches rapidly.
AB  - Intravenous Sodium Valproate (iVPA) seems to be safe and rapidly effective for intractable migraine attack. Randomized, double-blinded, controlled studies are warranted.

UI  - 20553601
TI  - P3MC: a double blind parallel group randomised placebo controlled trial of Propranolol and Pizotifen in preventing migraine in children.
AB  - ISRCTN97360154.

UI  - 20546320
TI  - Long-term, open-label safety study of oral almotriptan 12.5 mg for the acute treatment of migraine in adolescents.
AB  - Almotriptan 12.5 mg was well tolerated in this adolescent population over a 12-month period. No unexpected safety or tolerability concerns were revealed over the course of this study. The results are consistent with almotriptan 12.5 mg being effective for the acute treatment of pain and symptoms associated with migraine in both younger and older adolescents.

UI  - 20529347
TI  - New uses of the Migraine Screen Questionnaire (MS-Q): validation in the Primary Care setting and ability to detect hidden migraine. MS-Q in Primary Care.
AB  - The results of the present study confirm the usefulness of the MS-Q questionnaire for the early detection and assessment of migraine in PC settings, and its ability to detect hidden migraine.

UI  - 20528213
TI  - Sumatriptan (50 mg tablets vs. 25 mg suppositories) in the acute treatment of menstrually related migraine and oral contraceptive-induced menstrual migraine: a pilot study.
AB  - Migraine attacks are common in the perimenstrual period (menstrually-related migraine, MRM) and can be particularly exacerbated by the cyclic suspension of oral contraceptives (oral contraceptive-induced menstrual migraine, OCMM). This cross-over, randomised study evaluated the efficacy and tolerability of rectal (25mg) and oral (50mg) sumatriptan in the treatment of 232 menstrual migraine attacks (135 MRM and 97 OCMM). Two hours after suppository administration, 72% of patients in the MRM group achieved pain relief and 24% were pain free; after tablet administration, the percentages were 66% and 27%, respectively. In the OCMM group 55% of patients improved at 2h with suppositories and 46% with tablets, 27% of patients were pain-free after suppositories and 18% after tablets. Fifty percent of patients given suppositories were pain-free at 4h post-treatment and 47% of those given tablets. Sumatriptan also effectively alleviated symptoms associated with migraine, such as nausea, vomiting and photo/phonophobia. A single dose of medication sufficed for pain relief without relapse in 47.4% of the attacks (MRM: 66%; OCMM: 33%). Both formulations were well tolerated.

UI  - 20511208
TI  - Migraine recurrence is not associated with depressive or anxiety symptoms. Results of a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - In order to investigate the plausible association of migraine recurrence with anxiety and depressive symptoms, a multicentre, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover clinical trial was conducted using sumatriptan as a vehicle drug. Migraineurs were randomly assigned to receive either 50 mg sumatriptan or placebo for three consecutive migraine attacks, and then cross over to the other treatment for three more migraine attacks. The primary measurements were the observed rate of migraine recurrence in relation to (i) patient's mood condition, measured by the Hamilton rating scales for depression and anxiety and (ii) patient's general health and functioning measured by the Symptom Checklist (SCL)-90-R. Migraine recurrence was defined as any migrainous headache that occurred within 24 h post treatment, only when pain free at 2 h was achieved. The analysis of efficacy was performed on 376 migraine attacks treated with sumatriptan and 373 attacks treated with placebo. Recurrence ratio was 14.1% and 5.1%, respectively (P = 0.045). The number needed to treat for pain free at 2 h post dose was 5.4. Recurrence was not affected by Hamilton scores for depression or anxiety, SCL-90-R scores or treatment. Apparently, depressive or anxiety symptoms do not influence headache recurrence in acute pharmaceutical migraine treatment, but further investigation is required.

UI  - 20488209
TI  - The serotonin transporter gene polymorphism STin2 VNTR confers an increased risk of inconsistent response to triptans in migraine patients.
AB  - The aim of the present observational study was to assess the value of the C825T polymorphism of the beta-3 subunit of G proteins (GNB3) as well as of variants in the SLC6A4 gene (5HTTLPR and STin2 VNTR) and DRD2 gene (TaqI A and NcoI) as predictive markers for consistency in headache response to triptans in migraine patients. Consistent responders to triptans were defined as the migraineurs who experienced a > or =2 point reduction in a 4-point scale intensity of pain from 3 (severe) to 0 (absent) 2h after triptan administration, in at least two attacks out of the three. Genotyping was performed by PCR and PCR-RFLP on genomic DNA extracted from peripheral blood. The impact of clinical and biological variables on consistency status of headache response to triptans was evaluated by using a binary logistic regression model with stepwise selection. Forty-three (33%) of the 130 migraine patients included in the study did not consistently respond to triptan administration. In a binary logistic regression model, STin 2.12/12 genotype (OR=3.363, 95% CI: 1.262-8.966, P=0.005) and non-use of migraine prophylactic medications (OR=2.848, 95% CI: 1.019-7.959, P=0.010) were found as significant factors increasing the odds of achieving inconsistent response to triptans. The analysis of classificatory power of the model showed moderate values of sensitivity (0.56), high specificity (0.87), and an overall prediction correctness (0.77). These results support the role of STin2 VNTR polymorphism of serotonin transporter gene as a relevant genetic factor conferring a higher risk of inconsistent response to triptans in migraine patients.

UI  - 20487038
TI  - OnabotulinumtoxinA for treatment of chronic migraine: pooled results from the double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled phases of the PREEMPT clinical program.
AB  - The pooled PREEMPT results demonstrate that onabotulinumtoxinA is an effective prophylactic treatment for chronic migraine. OnabotulinumtoxinA resulted in significant improvements compared with placebo in multiple headache symptom measures, and significantly reduced headache-related disability and improved functioning, vitality, and overall health-related quality of life. Repeat treatments with onabotulinumtoxinA were safe and well tolerated.

UI  - 20464617
TI  - Greater occipital nerve block in chronic migraine.
AB  - Headache syndromes often involve occipital and neck symptoms suggesting a functional connectivity between nociceptive trigeminal and cervical afferents. Several studies have suggested that pain relief in migraine and other types of headache can be achieved by local injections of steroids, local anaesthetics or a mixture of both in the area of greater occipital nerve (GON). Usually greater occipital nerve block (GONB) is performed by using local anaesthetics alone or with steroid. The rationale of performing a GONB for the treatment of chronic headache states is on the anatomical connections between trigeminal and upper cervical sensory fibres at the level of the trigeminal nucleus caudalis. However, the reason for the improvement after GONB in primary headache is unknown. The objective of this study is to determine whether adding triamcinolone to local anaesthetics increased the efficacy of GONB and trigger point injections (TPIs) for chronic migraine (TM). Patients with TM were randomized to receive GONB and TPIs using lidocaine 2% and bupivacaine 0.5% + either saline or triamcinolone 40 mg. Particularly, a 10-ml syringe containing 4.5 ml of lidocaine 2%, 4.5 ml of bupivacaine 0.5% and 1 ml of either saline (group A) or triamcinolone 40 mg/ml (group B) was prepared for each patients. Patients were given bilateral GONB and TPIs in the cervical paraspinal and trapezius muscles bilaterally. 2 ml were injected into each GON at the medial third of the distance between the occipital protuberance and the mastoid process. In addition, 0.5 ml was injected into each of the 12 trigger points. The total injected volume was 10 ml. The primary outcome measure was the change in mean headache severity from before injection to 20 min after in the two groups. Secondary outcome measures were the change in mean neck pain, photophobia and phonofobia severity from before injection to 20 min after in the two groups. Patients documented headache and severity of associated symptoms for 4 weeks after injection. Changes in symptom severity were compared between the two groups. Thirty-seven patients were included. Twenty minutes after injection, mean headache severity decreased by 3.2 points in group A (p < 0.01) and by 3.1 points in group B (p < 0.01). Mean neck pain severity decreased by 1.5 points in group A (p < 0.01) and by 1.7 points in group B (p < 0.01). Mean duration of being headache-free was 2.7 +/- 3.8 days in group A and 1.0 +/- 1.1 days in group B (p = 0.67). None of the outcome measures differed significantly between the two groups. Both treatments were full tolerated. In our study, adding triamcinolone to local anaesthetic when performing GONB and TPIs was not associated with improved outcome in the sample of patients with TM. In both groups, the procedure resulted in significant and rapid relief of headache, neck pain, photophobia and phonofobia.

UI  - 20464599
TI  - Evolution of migraine-associated symptoms in menstrually related migraine following symptomatic treatment with almotriptan.
AB  - In addition to headache, migraine is characterized by a series of symptoms that negatively affects the quality of life of patients. Generally, these are represented by nausea, vomiting, photophobia, phonophobia and osmophobia, with a cumulative percentage of the onset in about 90% of the patients. From this point of view, menstrually related migraine--a particularly difficult-to-treat form of primary headache--is no different from other forms of migraine. Symptomatic treatment should therefore be evaluated not only in terms of headache relief, but also by considering its effect on these migraine-associated symptoms (MAS). Starting from the data collected in a recently completed multicentre, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, cross-over study with almotriptan in menstrually related migraine, an analysis of the effect of this drug on the evolution of MAS was performed. Data suggest that almotriptan shows excellent efficacy on MAS in comparison to the placebo, with a significant reduction in the percentages of suffering patients over a 2-h period of time.

UI  - 20464583
TI  - Frovatriptan versus zolmitriptan for the acute treatment of migraine: a double-blind, randomized, multicenter, Italian study.
AB  - The objective of this study is to assess patients' satisfaction with migraine treatment with frovatriptan (F) or zolmitriptan (Z), by preference questionnaire. 133 subjects with a history of migraine with or without aura (IHS criteria) were randomized to F 2.5 mg or Z 2.5 mg. The study had a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, cross-over design, with each of the two treatment periods lasting no more than 3 months. At the end of the study, patients were asked to assign preference to one of the treatments (primary endpoint). The number of pain-free (PF) and pain-relief (PR) episodes at 2 h, and number of recurrent and sustained pain-free (SPF) episodes within 48 h were the secondary study endpoints. Seventy-seven percent of patients expressed a preference. Average score of preference was 2.9 +/- 1.3 (F) versus 3.0 +/- 1.3 (Z; p = NS). Rate of PF episodes at 2 h was 26% with F and 31% with Z (p = NS). PR episodes at 2 h were 57% for F and 58% for Z (p = NS). Rate of recurrence was 21 (F) and 24% (Z; p = NS). Time to recurrence within 48 h was better for F especially between 4 and 16 h (p < 0.05). SPF episodes were 18 (F) versus 22% (Z; p = NS). Drug-related adverse events were significantly (p < 0.05) less under F (3 vs. 10). In conclusion, our study suggests that F has a similar efficacy of Z, with some advantage as regards tolerability and recurrence.

UI  - 20456192
TI  - Capsaicin jelly against migraine pain.
AB  - Although referring to a small number of patients, our data show that topical capsaicin may relieve arterial pain in absence of and during a migraine attack in a substantial number of patients experiencing scalp arterial tenderness. More active capsacinoids might be tried in the future and could provide a new method for treating migraine attacks.

UI  - 20456191
TI  - Cutaneous application of menthol 10% solution as an abortive treatment of migraine without aura: a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossed-over study.
AB  - Menthol solution can be an efficacious, safe and tolerable therapeutic option for the abortive treatment of migraine.

UI  - 20429318
TI  - Real-life experiences in migraine therapy.
AB  - In this real-life setting, eletriptan displayed high efficacy, consistency of response over three attacks and was preferred by 97% patients (Tab. 2, Fig. 5, Ref. 16). Full Text (Free, PDF) www.bmj.sk.

UI  - 20425219
TI  - Tonabersat: a cortical spreading depression inhibitor as potential pharmacologic prophylaxis in migraine with aura.
AB  - 

UI  - 20423206
TI  - Homeopathic treatment of patients with migraine: a prospective observational study with a 2-year follow-up period.
AB  - In this observational study, patients seeking homeopathic treatment for migraine showed relevant improvements that persisted for the observed 24 month period. Due to the design of this study, however, it does not answer the question as to whether the effects are treatment specific or not.

UI  - 20399553
TI  - Botulinum toxin type A versus amitriptyline for the treatment of chronic daily migraine.
AB  - Botulinum toxin type A was as effective as amitriptyline for the prophylactic treatment of chronic daily migraines.

UI  - 20353434
TI  - Changes in salivary prostaglandin levels during menstrual migraine with associated dysmenorrhea.
AB  - Data from this pilot study provide evidence that saliva levels of several prostaglandins increase during attacks of MMaD and that treatment with a single tablet combination of sumatriptan and naproxen sodium prevents elevation of prostaglandin levels.

UI  - 20303198
TI  - Treating headache recurrence after emergency department discharge: a randomized controlled trial of naproxen versus sumatriptan.
AB  - In this trial, nearly three quarters of patients reported headache recurrence within 48 hours of ED discharge. Naproxen 500 mg and sumatriptan 100 mg taken orally relieve post-ED recurrent primary headache and migraine comparably. Clinicians should be guided by medication costs, contraindications, and a patient's previous experience with the medication.

UI  - 20298985
TI  - Primary transcatheter patent foramen ovale closure is effective in improving migraine in patients with high-risk anatomic and functional characteristics for paradoxical embolism.
AB  - Primary transcatheter PFO closure resulted in a very significant reduction in migraine in patients satisfying our criteria.

UI  - 20236342
TI  - A randomized, placebo-controlled trial of acetaminophen for treatment of migraine headache.
AB  - Acetaminophen 1000 mg, a nonprescription drug, is an effective and well-tolerated treatment for episodic and moderate migraine headache. In addition, acetaminophen generally provided a beneficial effect on associated symptoms of migraine including nausea, photophobia, phonophobia, and functional disability.

UI  - 20236340
TI  - Characteristics of menstrual vs nonmenstrual migraine: a post hoc, within-woman analysis of the usual-care phase of a nonrandomized menstrual migraine clinical trial.
AB  - Post hoc, within-woman analysis of migraine treatment episodes categorized based on International Headache Society criteria showed that menstrual treatment episodes were more impairing, longer lasting, and more likely to relapse than nonmenstrual treatment episodes in this selected population of women with frequent menstrual migraine. The current analysis indicates that most of the variability in these outcomes is due to differences between headache types and not within-patient differences for a given type of headache, suggesting that menstrual episodes are potentially treatable. These findings underscore the differences between menstrual and nonmenstrual episodes of migraine and the need to offer effective migraine treatment to women.

UI  - 20236338
TI  - A prospective comparison between ICHD-II and probability menstrual migraine diagnostic criteria.
AB  - Prospective headache diaries are needed to diagnose MM. A probability-based method, which considers the chance occurrence of headaches during the menstrual cycle, identifies fewer women as having menstrually related migraine compared with the diary-based methods recommended by the current ICHD-II candidate criteria.

UI  - 20236337
TI  - Perimenstrual eletriptan prevents menstrual migraine: an open-label study.
AB  - Among patients with prospectively identified MM, eletriptan 20 mg 3 times daily effectively reduced MM. A significant reduction in headache activity occurred for 53% of patients.

UI  - 20225996
TI  - Prevention of episodic migraine with topiramate: a prospective 24-week, open-label, flexible-dose clinical trial with optional 24 weeks follow-up in a community setting.
AB  - This community practice study showed that long-term treatment with topiramate in the prevention of episodic migraine was effective and well-tolerated, and it was associated with clinically relevant improvements in several aspects of QoL.

UI  - 20206581
TI  - Single-pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation for acute treatment of migraine with aura: a randomised, double-blind, parallel-group, sham-controlled trial.
AB  - Neuralieve.

UI  - 20173082
TI  - Single- and multiple-dose pharmacokinetics and tolerability of telcagepant, an oral calcitonin gene-related peptide receptor antagonist, in adults.
AB  - Telcagepant is a novel, orally active, and selective calcitonin gene-related peptide receptor antagonist being developed for acute treatment of migraine with and without aura. Three separate clinical studies were conducted to evaluate the pharmacokinetics and tolerability of telcagepant following single oral doses in healthy young and elderly men and women and multiple oral doses in men. Telcagepant was rapidly absorbed with a time to maximum concentration of approximately 1.5 hours. The terminal half-life was approximately 6 hours. A greater than dose-proportional increase was observed in the area under the plasma concentration versus time curve from zero to infinity. Following twice-daily dosing, with each dose separated by 2 hours, steady state was achieved in approximately 3 to 4 days with an accumulation ratio of approximately 2. There were no clinically meaningful pharmacokinetic differences when compared across age and gender. Telcagepant was generally well tolerated up to single doses of 1200 mg and multiple doses of 400 mg twice daily.

UI  - 20159428
TI  - Cognitive effects of topiramate in migraine patients aged 12 through 17 years.
AB  - Neuropsychologic data are presented from a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter study with placebo, topiramate 50 mg/day, and topiramate 100 mg/day. The Cambridge Neuropsychological Test Automated Battery (CANTAB) and cognitive adverse events were used to evaluate neurocognitive effects of topiramate. Topiramate 100 mg/day vs placebo was associated with slight statistically significant score increases, indicating slowing, from baseline vs placebo in three CANTAB measures: five-choice reaction time (P = 0.028), pattern recognition memory mean correct latency (P = 0.027), and rapid visual information processing mean latency (P = 0.040). No other patterns related to topiramate treatment were observed in measurements of learning, memory, and visual information processing, except for potential improvement with topiramate 100 mg/day vs placebo in spatial span total errors (accuracy test) (P = 0.040). The most common cognitive and neuropsychiatric adverse events with a higher incidence in the topiramate 50 and 100 mg/day groups vs placebo were anorexia (9% and 11% vs 3%), insomnia (9% and 3% vs 3%), fatigue (6% and 9% vs 6%), and dizziness (6% and 9% vs 0%). Thus, topiramate 100 mg/day was associated with modest increases in psychomotor reaction times. Learning, memory, and executive function were unchanged. The tolerability profile, including cognitive adverse events, appeared to be acceptable.

UI  - 20158623
TI  - Migraine and its relation with lifestyle in women.
AB  - Lifestyle habits, including rest and sleep, diet and drug usage, are important factors in migraine attacks. It is important to emphasize changing habits, such as improper use of analgesics, to decrease side effects in migraine victims. The health centers should consider promoting healthy habits and behaviors as a priority in their services.

UI  - 20157026
TI  - Predicting migraine responsiveness to botulinum toxin type A injections.
AB  - Our study supports the hypothesis that patients with imploding and ocular migraines are more responsive to BTX than those with exploding migraines. Injections of BTX at doses appropriate for cosmetic purposes may be sufficient to prevent migraine attacks.

UI  - 20146184
TI  - [Zonisamide in the preventive treatment of refractory migraine].
AB  - These results, obtained in a big sample of patients refractory or intolerant to topiramate and other preventatives, indicate that, at least in conditions of daily clinical practice, zonisamide, at relatively low dosages, is an option to be considered for the preventive treatment of patients with frequent migraine.

UI  - 20143246
TI  - A pilot study of topiramate dosages for migraine prophylaxis in an Asian population.
AB  - Topiramate is known to be efficacious in migraine prophylaxis, but its optimal dose has not been systematically studied in the Asian population. Here, we show that a fixed low dose of topiramate 25 mg/day is efficacious in migraine prophylaxis and also attest to advantages in terms of medication cost savings and more favourable side effect profile.

UI  - 20140543
TI  - Frovatriptan in the practice of office-based neurologists/pain therapists: Results of postmarketing surveillance study ALADIN.
AB  - Frovatriptan, with fast onset of action and low rate of headache recurrence, was efficacious and well accepted by migraineurs attending neurologists or pain therapists. Approximately 80% of patients wished to continue migraine treatment with frovatriptan.

UI  - 20132340
TI  - Distinct pharmacokinetic profile and safety of a fixed-dose tablet of sumatriptan and naproxen sodium for the acute treatment of migraine.
AB  - The combination tablet of sumatriptan/naproxen sodium has unique pharmacokinetic properties. The rapid absorption of sumatriptan with the delayed-release properties of naproxen sodium from sumatriptan/naproxen sodium might contribute to its therapeutic advantage over monotherapy with either component. No clinically meaningful effects of food, administration during a migraine attack, or administration of a second tablet (2 hours after initial dose) on the pharmacokinetics or safety of sumatriptan/naproxen sodium were observed.

UI  - 20132337
TI  - Outpatient home-based continuous intravenous dihydroergotamine therapy for intractable migraine.
AB  - Efficacy and safety of our outpatient home-based intravenous dihydroergotamine program compared favorably to that of established inpatient intravenous pulse injection and continuous infusion protocols for the treatment of intractable migraine. The use of outpatient continuous intravenous dihydroergotamine is an effective and well-tolerated therapy for intractable migraine but without the added cost and inconvenience of hospitalization.

UI  - 20108021
TI  - Headache, anxiety and depressive disorders: the HADAS study.
AB  - The objective of this paper was to assess prevalence and characteristics of anxiety and depression in migraine without aura and tension-type headache, either isolated or in combination. Although the association between headache and psychiatric disorders is undisputed, patients with migraine and/or tension-type headache have been frequently investigated in different settings and using different tests, which prevents meaningful comparisons. Psychiatric comorbidity was tested through structured interview and the MINI inventory in 158 adults with migraine without aura and in 216 persons with tension-type headache or migraine plus tension-type headache. 49 patients reported psychiatric disorders: migraine 10.9%, tension-type headache 12.8%, and migraine plus tension-type headache 21.4%. The MINI detected a depressive episode in 59.9, 67.0, and 69.6% of cases. Values were 18.4, 19.3, and 18.4% for anxiety, 12.7, 5.5, and 14.2%, for panic disorder and 2.3, 1.1 and 9.4% (p = 0.009) for obsessive-compulsive disorder. Multivariate analysis showed panic disorder prevailing in migraine compared with the other groups (OR 2.9; 95% CI 1.2-7.0). The association was higher (OR 6.3; 95% CI 1.4-28.5) when migraine (with or without tension-type headache) was compared to pure tension-type headache. This also applied to obsessive-compulsive disorder (OR 4.8; 95% CI 1.1-20.9) in migraine plus tension-type headache. Psychopathology of primary headache can reflect shared risk factors, pathophysiologic mechanisms, and disease burden.

UI  - 20069203
TI  - A double-blind randomized controlled trial of low doses of propranolol, nortriptyline, and the combination of propranolol and nortriptyline for the preventive treatment of migraine.
AB  - Few trials have evaluated combination of two or more drugs in the preventive treatment of migraine. In this study three therapeutic regimens were compared: (a) propranolol, at a dose of 40 mg per day, (b) nortriptyline, at a dose of 20 mg per day, and (c) the combination of these two drugs in these dosages. The groups were matched according to age, gender, and frequency of migraine attacks prior to treatment. The period of treatment was two months and the frequency and intensity of headache attacks of the 30 days pre-treatment period were compared with the frequency of headaches in the treatment period. Fourteen patients in groups A and B and sixteen patients in group C have completed the study. Treatment with propranolol, alone or in combination, was shown to be effective. Treatment with nortriptyline alone was not effective. All three therapeutic regimens were safe and side effects were minimal. The frequency of discontinuation of the study was the same in the 3 groups but no patient left the study due to adverse reactions. The combined therapy proved to be as safe as the monotherapy. Further studies evaluating this and other possible combinations of drugs in higher doses and for longer periods, should more clearly elucidate the role of combined therapy in the treatment of migraine.

UI  - 20045576
TI  - A prospective, randomized trial of intravenous prochlorperazine versus subcutaneous sumatriptan in acute migraine therapy in the emergency department.
AB  - IV prochlorperazine with diphenhydramine is superior to subcutaneous sumatriptan in the treatment of migraine.

UI  - 21389936
TI  - [Preventive treatment of migraine with vasobral: a multicenter trial].
AB  - The results of an open prospective trial on the treatment of migraine with vasobral which was conducted in 170 medical centers (27 cities) of the Russian Federation are summarized. The trial included 5475 patients treated with vasobral in dosage 2 ml (1 ml contains 1 mg of alpha-dihydroergocryptine and 10 mg of caffeine) twice a day during 2 months. Assessment criteria of treatment efficacy were frequency and duration of migraine seizures, pain syndrome severity, presence of concomitant syndromes, general state and working capacity of patients and side-effects. Vasobral was effective and safe medication for the prevention of migraine. Its preventive effect is due to the decrease of frequency and duration of migraine seizures, pain severity and to the overall improvement of patient's state. Vasobral can be recommended to many migraine patients, in particular to those in the young age and with short disease duration.

UI  - 21387805
TI  - [Influence of visual stimulation on cerebral blood flow and visual evoked potentials in children with migraine with visual aura].
AB  - Visual stimulation has significant influence on cerebral blood flow velocities in both migraine with aura patients and controls and these changes are most often observed direct after the beginning of the stimulation. However, no differences in vascular response to visual stimulation between the groups were observed. On the other hand positive correlation between visually evoked changes in cerebral blood flow velocities and VEP amplitudes was found in migraine with aura patients suggesting increased neurovascular coupling in this group when compared with controls.

UI  - 20037525
TI  - [Trimigren in stopping migraine attacks: an open prospective multicenter comparative study of rectal suppository and tablet forms of sumatriptan].
AB  - Efficacy and safety of sumatriptan in rectal suppository (50 mg) and tablet forms (50 mg) in stopping migraine attacks has been studied in 80 patients with migraine with or without aura. Dynamics of migraine pain intensity measured with the VAS 30 min, 1, 2, 6 and 24 h after the first dose of drug was a primary index of efficacy. Secondary indices were the VAS intensity of nausea, vomiting, photophobia, phonophobia, duration of each migraine attack, quality of life parameters of a patient during the migraine attack assessed with the 24-hour questionnaire, severity of migraine course on the MIDAS, percentage of patients with complete regression of migraine pain, at least in 2 out of 3 attacks. To assess drug safety, any adverse effects, data of instrumental methods (clinical and biochemical blood tests, clinical urine test), EKG were taken into account. Rectal suppository had the more rapid effect on headache reduction compared to tablets. Changes of intensity of concomitant symptoms (nausea, vomiting, photophobia, phonophobia) as well as other secondary indices of drug efficacy were similar in both groups. In the group treated with rectal suppository, 9 (22.5%) patients had 12 adverse effects. In the group treated with tablets, 22 adverse effects were noted in 15 (37.5%) patients. Adverse effects related to the cardio-vascular system were observed less often in the group treated with rectal suppository (6.6 and 32%, respectively, p=0,004).

UI  - 19943469
TI  - Comparison of treatment effect of sodium valproate, propranolol and tricyclic antidepressants in migraine.
AB  - This study was conducted to evaluate and compare the efficacy and treatment effect of sodium valprovate with propranolol and tricyclic antidepressive drugs. This piece is a rarandomized clinical trial conducted on 126 migraine patients admitted to brain and nerves clinic in Arak, Iran. Patients were divided in two groups then randomized to study treatments. Data were gathered using a checklist and a complete examination. They were analyzed by Chi square and exact test. In patients with normal and abnormal encephalogram the effectiveness rate of two treatments were 35, 61.9, 95.6 and 28.6%, respectively. This difference between two treatments was statistically significant (p<0.001). But didn't observe significant differences between two sex groups (p>0.05). For treatment and control of the migraine, in patients with normal encephalogram, propranolol with tricyclic antidepressive drugs advised and for abnormal encephalogram sodium valprovate can be the better treatment for management and reduction of headache attacks.

UI  - 19935987
TI  - Efficacy of biofeedback in the treatment of migraine and tension type headaches.
AB  - Biofeedback is an extremely costly and time-consuming treatment modality that, in our study, provided no additional benefit when compared to simple relaxation techniques alone, in the treatment of migraine and tension type headaches in adults.

UI  - 19935409
TI  - Pregabalin in the treatment of chronic migraine: an open-label study.
AB  - Despite the limitations of an open-label design, our data suggest that pregabalin may be a useful alternative prophylaxis for chronic migraine. These promising results should be confirmed in randomized clinical trials.

UI  - 19928412
TI  - The efficacy of gabapentin in migraine prophylaxis: an observational open label study.
AB  - Migraine is often a chronic and disabling disorder. The objective of our study was to assess the efficacy and safety of gabapentin in the prophylaxis of migraine in patients refractory to other prophylactic treatments. The study included 67 migraine patients, 55 women and 12 men; 52 patients completed this prospective, open-label study. Patients were given 900-1800 mg of gabapentin in 3 doses; the mean duration of treatment was 7.2 months. Reduction in the number of days with headache, pain intensity and number of acute medications was assessed through patient diary. The mean number of migraine days/4 weeks was reduced from 15.8 to 8.6, yielding a reduction of 7.2 migraine days/4 weeks (P=0.001). Pain intensity was reduced by 25% in 14 (26.9%), by 50% in 29 (55.7%) and by 75% in three (5.7%) patients, whereas no improvement was reported by six (11.5%) patients at the end of follow up. A significant reduction was recorded in acute medication use (P=0.001). Adverse events were reported by 32/67 (47.8%) patients, in 15 (22.4%) of them causing discontinuation of the drug. The most frequently reported adverse events were drowsiness, dizziness and slowness. Prophylactic treatment with gabapentin was found to be associated with a significant reduction in the number of days with headache, use of acute medications and pain intensity.

UI  - 19925626
TI  - Subcutaneous sumatriptan pharmacokinetics: delimiting the monoamine oxidase inhibitor effect.
AB  - There are no pharmacokinetic grounds to deter co-administration of an MAOI-A and subcutaneous sumatriptan. The dominance of the distribution phase and completeness of absorption of a 6 mg dose of s.c. sumatriptan explains the trivial effect size of the MAOI-A on plasma sumatriptan concentrations. Importantly, these findings should not be extrapolated to other routes of administration for sumatriptan.

UI  - 19920719
TI  - A comparison of migraine patients with and without allodynic symptoms.
AB  - Allodynic symptoms occurred in 57.1% patients with migraine. In allodynic patients with moderate-to-severe headache, rizatriptan resulted in greater pain relief compared with ibuprofen. These results need further confirmation in larger study.

UI  - 19912346
TI  - A double-blind comparison of onabotulinumtoxina (BOTOX) and topiramate (TOPAMAX) for the prophylactic treatment of chronic migraine: a pilot study.
AB  - OnabotulinumtoxinA and topiramate demonstrated similar efficacy in the prophylactic treatment of CM. Patients receiving onabotulinumtoxinA had fewer AEs and discontinuations.

UI  - 19895705
TI  - Efficacy and tolerability of intravenous methylergonovine in migraine female patients attending the emergency department: a pilot open-label study.
AB  - Although limited by the non-controlled design of the study, our data suggest that intravenous methylergonovine can be an effective and safe drug in the management of severe migraine attacks in the emergency room.

UI  - 19894100
TI  - Prevention of episodic migraines with topiramate: results from a non-interventional study in a general practice setting.
AB  - The majority of patients with migraine headaches are treated in non-specialized institutions though data on treatment outcomes are largely derived from tertiary care centers. The current non-interventional study explores efficacy and tolerability outcomes of patients with episodic migraines receiving topiramate as preventive agent in a general practice setting. A total of 366 patients (87% female, mean age 41.8 +/- 11.6 years) were eligible for migraine prevention and treated with flexible dose topiramate for 6 months (core phase), and optionally for a total of 12 months (follow-up phase). Overall, 261 patients (77.7% of safety analysis set, SAF) completed the core phase. Reasons for discontinuation included adverse events (2.1%), lost to follow-up (1.8%), other reasons (1.5%), and end of therapy (0.3%) though in the majority of patients who discontinued no reasons were listed. The median daily dose at endpoint was 50 mg/day (range, 25-187.5 mg/day). The median days with migraine headaches decreased from 6.0 to 1.2 days (p < 0.001), median pain intensity score decreased from 17.0 to 3.2 points (p < 0.001). In women with reported menstruation-associated migraine, the median number of migraine attacks decreased from 4.0 to 0.9 (p < 0.001). Absenteeism as well as triptan use decreased significantly, and significant improvements in activities of daily living and quality of life were reported. The most frequently reported AEs were paraesthesia (4.2%) and nausea (3%). Results suggest that migraine prevention with topiramate in a general practice is generally well tolerated and associated with a significant improvement in migraine headaches and related functional impairment.

UI  - 19849720
TI  - Needle-free subcutaneous sumatriptan (Sumavel DosePro): bioequivalence and ease of use.
AB  - Sumavel DosePro needle-free delivery system is a new presentation of s.c. sumatriptan that delivers drug effectively, is bioequivalent to the existing needle auto-injector when used at the thigh or abdomen, and is easy to use.

UI  - 19846269
TI  - Steroids for migraine headaches: a randomized double-blind, two-armed, placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - We did not find a statistically significant decrease in headache recurrence in patients treated with steroids for migraine headaches.

UI  - 19845782
TI  - Childhood maltreatment and migraine (part I). Prevalence and adult revictimization: a multicenter headache clinic survey.
AB  - Reports of childhood maltreatment, especially emotional abuse and neglect, are prevalent in outpatients with migraine. There is extensive overlap of maltreatment types and a high rate of revictimization in adulthood. All types of childhood abuse and neglect are strongly associated with remote and current depression and anxiety, and the relationship strengthens with an increasing number of maltreatment types.

UI  - 19845781
TI  - Childhood maltreatment and migraine (part II). Emotional abuse as a risk factor for headache chronification.
AB  - Our findings suggest that physical abuse, emotional abuse, and emotional neglect may be risk factors for development of chronic headache, including transformed migraine. The association of maltreatment and headache frequency appears to be independent of depression and anxiety, which are related to both childhood abuse and chronic daily headache. The finding that emotional abuse was associated with an earlier age of migraine onset may have implications for the role of stress responses in migraine pathophysiology.

UI  - 19843509
TI  - Phenotypes of chronic fatigue syndrome in children and young people.
AB  - CFS/ME is heterogeneous in children with three phenotypes at presentation that are differentially associated with severity and are unlikely to be due to age or length of illness.

UI  - 19819836
TI  - Emergency department visits for migraine and headache: a multi-city study.
AB  - Our findings support the associations between air pollutants and the number of ED visits for headache.

UI  - 19817885
TI  - Expanding access to triptans: assessment of clinical outcome.
AB  - Providing a greater quantity of rizatriptan ODT 10 mg did not reduce the number of migraine days compared with providing 9 tablets per month for this population with episodic migraine with a frequency of 3-8 migraines per month. Regardless of quantity provided, rizatriptan was generally well tolerated.

UI  - 19811503
TI  - Short-term frovatriptan for the prevention of difficult-to-treat menstrual migraine attacks.
AB  - The efficacy of a 6-day regimen of frovatriptan for menstrual migraine (MM; attacks starting on day -2 to +3 of menses) prevention in women with difficult-to-treat MM was assessed. Women with a documented inadequate response to triptans for acute MM treatment were included in this placebo-controlled, parallel-group trial. Women were randomized to double-blind treatment for three perimenstrual periods (PMPs) with either frovatriptan 2.5 mg (q.d. or b.i.d.) or placebo initiated 2 days before anticipated MM. The efficacy analysis included 410 women with 85% completing three double-blind PMPs. The mean number of headache-free PMPs was 0.92 with frovatriptan b.i.d., 0.69 with frovatriptan q.d. and 0.42 with placebo [P < 0.001 (b.i.d.) and P < 0.02 (q.d.) vs. placebo]. When migraine occurred, severity was reduced with frovatriptan q.d. (P < 0.001) and b.i.d. (P < 0.001) vs. placebo. Both frovatriptan regimens were well tolerated. In women with difficult-to-treat MM, a 6-day regimen of frovatriptan significantly reduced MM incidence and severity.

UI  - 19804400
TI  - Ankle-brachial index, a screening for peripheral obstructive arterial disease, and migraine - a controlled study.
AB  - Our findings suggest that decreased values of ABI are more common in migraineurs than in controls. Although causality was not assessed by us, the relationship is of importance per se. Doctors should measure the ABI in individuals with migraine as an easy way to screen for cardiovascular risk.

UI  - 19804392
TI  - Topiramate for migraine prevention in a naturalistic setting: results from an open label, flexible dose study.
AB  - Topiramate used for migraine prevention in non-academic institutions is generally safe, well tolerated and results in good control of migraine headaches and improvement in several aspects of quality of life.

UI  - 19804390
TI  - The safety of sumatriptan and naratriptan in pregnancy: what have we learned?
AB  - The risk of all major birth defects following first-trimester exposure to sumatriptan was 4.6% (95% CI 2.9-7.2%). This coupled with a consistent failure of additional epidemiological studies to observe a signal for major teratogenicity gives a level of reassurance concerning the safety of sumatriptan in pregnancy. There are too few data on naratriptan to draw definitive conclusions, and the sample size for sumatriptan remains too small to detect any but very large increases in specific birth defects.

UI  - 19794995
TI  - Effect of biofeedback-assisted autogenic training on headache activity and mood states in Korean female migraine patients.
AB  - Biofeedback with or without combined autogenic training is known to be effective for the treatment of migraine. This study aimed to examine the effect of biofeedback treatment on headache activity, anxiety, and depression in Korean female patients with migraine headache. Patients were randomized into the treatment group (n=17) and monitoring group (n=15). Mood states including anxiety and depression, and psychophysiological variables such as mean skin temperature of the patients were compared with those of the normal controls (n=21). We found greater treatment response rate (defined as > or =50% reduction in headache index) in patients with biofeedback-assisted autogenic training than in monitoring group. The scores on the anxiety and depression scales in the patients receiving biofeedback-assisted autogenic training decreased after the biofeedback treatment. Moreover, the decrease in their anxiety levels was significantly related to the treatment outcome. This result suggests that the biofeedback-assisted autogenic training is effective for the treatment of migraine and its therapeutic effect is closely related to the improvement of the anxiety level.

UI  - 19788473
TI  - Allodynia in migraine: association with comorbid pain conditions.
AB  - Symptoms of CA in migraine were associated with current anxiety, depression, and several chronic pain conditions. A graded relationship was observed between number of allodynic symptoms and the number of pain conditions, even after adjusting for confounding factors. This study also presents the novel association of CA symptoms with younger age of migraine onset, and with cigarette smoking, in addition to confirming several previously reported findings.

UI  - 19788471
TI  - Safety and tolerability of short-term preventive frovatriptan: a combined analysis.
AB  - During treatment of up to 12 perimenstrual periods over a 12- to 15-month period, the safety and tolerability of frovatriptan for short-term prevention of menstrual migraine was similar to that observed with acute use of triptans. Adverse events were generally mild or moderate in severity, there was no evidence of an increased risk of cardiovascular adverse events relative to acute treatment, and rebound headache was not evident. A short-term regimen with frovatriptan presents a safe and viable treatment option for preventing predictable migraine such as menstrual migraine.

UI  - 19788470
TI  - Variation in almotriptan effectiveness according to different prophylactic treatments.
AB  - Our results displayed a higher efficacy of almotriptan in propranolol group and we hypothesized it may be due to a common mechanism of action at serotoninergic receptors.

UI  - 19788468
TI  - Elevated saliva calcitonin gene-related peptide levels during acute migraine predict therapeutic response to rizatriptan.
AB  - Elevation of saliva CGRP is predictive of responsiveness to rizatriptan. In the rizatriptan responsive population, CGRP levels are elevated beginning with the premonitory period and throughout mild and moderate/severe headache. Successful response to rizatriptan correlated with return of saliva CGRP levels to near baseline (interictal) values.

UI  - 19782343
TI  - A randomized controlled trial of Internet-based self-help training for recurrent headache in childhood and adolescence.
AB  - Two different self-help training programs (multimodal cognitive-behavioral training (CBT) and applied relaxation (AR)) presented via the Internet were compared with an educational intervention (EDU) in an RCT. Sixty-five children and adolescents (mean age: 12.7 years) with recurrent headache (at least 2 attacks per month) were each assigned to one of the three treatment conditions. The main outcome variables related to changes in headache frequency, intensity and duration as well as the responder rate (50% reduction of headache frequency) and NNTs. Secondary outcome variables were pain catastrophizing and general well-being (depression, psychopathological symptoms and health-related quality of life). All groups showed significant reduction in headache frequency, duration and pain catastrophizing, but not in headache intensity, depression, psychopathological symptoms or health-related quality of life at post-assessment. NNTs were 2.0 for the comparison CBT and EDU; 5.2 for the comparison of AR and EDU at post-treatment. The highest responder rates at post were from CBT (63%), significantly different compared to AR (32%) and EDU (19%), whereas at follow-up no significant differences were found (CBT: 63%, AR: 56%, EDU: 55%) reflecting in the NNTs. The effects remain stable in headache frequency, pain catastrophizing and psychopathological symptoms across all groups at follow-up assessment. CBT showed the highest within-effect size in headache frequency, duration and pain catastrophizing. The results support the use of Internet programs for pediatric recurrent headache, especially given their accessibility and suitability for children and adolescents. Further studies are needed to improve their quality and efficacy.

UI  - 19778164
TI  - Postmarketing migraine survey of frovatriptan: effectiveness and tolerability vs previous triptans, NSAIDs or a combination.
AB  - Intrapatient comparisons showed that most patients with migraine reported significantly improved effectiveness and tolerability ratings with frovatriptan versus previous acute therapies.

UI  - 19771388
TI  - Treatment of primary headache in children: a multicenter hospital-based study in France.
AB  - The aim of this 6-month, prospective, multicenter study of 398 children and adolescents with primary headaches was to collect data on headache treatment in neuropediatric departments. Treatments were compared before and after consultation. Prior to consultation, the acute treatments that had been prescribed most frequently were paracetamol (82.2% of children) and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs treatment (53.5%); 10.3% had received a prophylactic treatment. No differences in either acute or prophylactic treatment with respect to headache diagnosis were observed. After the neuropediatric consultation, paracetamol was replaced by a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug in about three-quarters of cases and by triptan in about one-quarter of cases. The number of children prescribed a prophylactic treatment nearly doubled, whereas there was a 5-fold and 23-fold increase in psychotherapy and relaxation training, respectively, between pre-referral and referral. We conclude that specific treatments were underused for primary headache.

UI  - 19770473
TI  - Randomized, controlled trial of telcagepant for the acute treatment of migraine.
AB  - This study confirmed previous findings that telcagepant 300 mg was effective at relieving pain and other migraine symptoms at 2 hours and providing sustained pain freedom up to 24 hours. In this study, telcagepant 150 mg was also effective. Telcagepant was generally well tolerated.

UI  - 19751371
TI  - Scheduled short-term prevention with frovatriptan for migraine occurring exclusively in association with menstruation.
AB  - Scheduled short-term preventive frovatriptan therapy effectively reduced the occurrence of menstrual migraine in women with attacks occurring exclusively in association with menstruation.

UI  - 19740120
TI  - Nitroglycerin provocation in normal subjects is not a useful human migraine model?
AB  - Provoking delayed migraine with nitroglycerin in migraine sufferers is a cumbersome model. Patients are difficult to recruit, migraine comes on late and variably and only 50-80% of patients develop an attack. A model using normal volunteers would be much more useful, but it should be validated by testing the response to drugs of known efficacy in acute migraine. Furthermore, treatment during headache rather than pretreatment is the most naturalist method. To fulfil these requirements we used continuous long-lasting infusion of glyceryl trinitrate (GTN) 0.2 microg kg-1 min-1 for 140 min and gave aspirin 1000 mg, zolmitriptan 5 mg or placebo to normal healthy volunteers. The design was double-blind, placebo-controlled three-way crossover. Our hypothesis was that these drugs would be effective in the treatment of the mild constant headache induced by long-lasting GTN infusion. The headaches did not fulfil the International Headache Society diagnostic criteria for migraine without aura. Moreover, there was no effect on headache of either zolmitriptan or aspirin. Thus our hypothesis was disproved and we conclude that our model is not valid for the testing of new acute antimigraine drugs. Our experiment suggests that headache caused by direct nitric oxide (NO) action in the continued presence of NO is very resistance to analgesics and to specific acute migraine treatments. This suggests that NO works very deep in the cascade of events associated with vascular headache, whereas tested drugs work higher in the cascade. The model suggested here should therefore be tested with other headache/migraine-provoking agents that supposedly work higher in the cascade of events. The need for human models persists, but the solution to this problem is still pending.

UI  - 19739264
TI  - Is a predominant left-to-right shunt associated with migraine?: A prospective atrial septal defect closure study.
AB  - We found a high prevalence of migraine in patients with an ASD, and observed prospectively a reduction in the occurrence of migraine, especially migraine with aura, 1 year after percutaneous closure.

UI  - 19735532
TI  - Ictal and interictal phonophobia in migraine-a quantitative controlled study.
AB  - The aim of the study was to evaluate quantitatively ictal and interictal phonophobia in episodic migraine (EM). We included subjects with EM and age- and gender-matched controls. Sound stimuli were pure tones at frequencies of 1000, 4000 and 8000 Hz. Sound aversion thresholds (SATs) were determined as the minimal sound intensity perceived as unpleasant or painful. Migraineurs were examined both between and during attacks. We compared interictal SATs in migraineurs with those in controls. We also compared ictal and interictal SATs in migraineurs. Sixty migraineurs and 52 controls were included. Interictal mean SAT of migraineurs, averaged for the three frequencies, was significantly lower than that of controls [90.4 (0.8) dB vs. 105.9 (1.1) dB, respectively, P < 0.0001]. In migraineurs, mean ictal SAT, averaged for the three frequencies, was significantly lower than interictal SAT [76.0 (0.9) dB vs. 91.0 (0.8) dB, respectively, P < 0.0001]. Patients with EM exhibit increased sound aversion between attacks that is further augmented during an acute attack.

UI  - 19732072
TI  - Migraines with and without aura and their response to preventive therapy with topiramate.
AB  - Data from the Prolonged Migraine Prevention (PROMPT) with Topiramate trial were evaluated post hoc to determine whether topiramate could prevent migraine auras, and whether its efficacy in preventing migraine headaches was similar in patients with (MA; n = 269) and without (MoA; n = 542) aura. Migraines and auras were recorded during prospective baseline, 6-month open-label (OL) topiramate and 6-month double-blind (DB), placebo-controlled phases. In the last 28 OL days, migraines without aura and migraine auras decreased by 43.1% and 54.1%, respectively, in MA patients. MoA patients experienced a 44.3% reduction in migraines. In the DB phase, increases in migraines with placebo vs. topiramate were similar to the full study, but were generally not statistically significant, probably due to lack of power in the subgroup analysis. Similarly, there were no statistically significant changes in number of auras between groups. Thus, topiramate appears to reduce migraine auras in parallel with headache reductions, which are similar in patients with and without aura.

UI  - 19415441
TI  - Efficacy of Ginkgolide B in the prophylaxis of migraine with aura.
AB  - In a multicentric, open, preliminary trial, we evaluated the use of ginkgolide B, a herbal constituent extract from Ginkgo biloba tree leaves, in the prophylactic treatment of migraine with aura (MA). Fifty women suffering from migraine with typical aura, or migraine aura without headache, diagnosed according to International Headache Society criteria, entered a six-month study. They underwent a two month run-in period free of prophylactic drugs, followed by a four month treatment period (subdivided into two bimesters, TI and TII) with a combination of 60 mg ginkgo biloba terpenes phytosome, 11 mg coenzyme Q 10, and 8.7 mg vitamin B2 (Migrasoll), administered twice daily. A detailed diary reporting neurological symptoms, duration, and frequency of MA was compiled by patients throughout the trial. The number of MA significantly decreased during treatment (from 3.7 +/- 2.2 in the run-in period, to 2.0 +/- 1.9 during TI and to 1.2 +/- 1.6 during TII; Anova for repeated measures: P < 0.0001). There was also a statistically significant decrease in the average MA duration, which was 40.4 +/- 19.4 min during run-in, 28.2 +/- 19.9 during TI, and 17.6 +/- 20.6 during TII. Total disappearance of MA was observed in 11.1% patients during TI and in 42.2% of patients during T2. No serious adverse event was provoked by Migrasoll administration. Ginkgolide B is effective in reducing MA frequency and duration. The effect is clearly evident in the first bimester of treatment and is further enhanced during the second.

UI  - 19723122
TI  - Tonabersat, a gap-junction modulator: efficacy and safety in two randomized, placebo-controlled, dose-ranging studies of acute migraine.
AB  - Tonabersat is a novel benzopyran derivative that blocks the cortical spreading depression proposed to be associated with migraine attacks. The ability of single oral doses of 15, 25, 40 and 80 mg of tonabersat to relieve the symptoms of moderate to severe migraine was evaluated in 859 migraineurs enrolled in two dose-ranging, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, parallel-group trials, one international and the other North American. In the international study, significantly more patients given tonabersat than given placebo experienced relief of headache pain at 2 h (15 mg, 36.8%; 40 mg, 40.7%), the principal efficacy variable, and at 4 h (40 mg, 63.0%) and complete abolition of headache at 4 h (40 mg, 34.3%). None of the primary or secondary efficacy variables indicated significant differences between tonabersat and placebo in the North American study. Tonabersat was generally well tolerated, with dizziness and nausea the most common side-effects. Serious adverse events were uncommon, and no patient withdrew from either study because of adverse events. These results suggest a possible interplay between tonabersat pharmacokinetics (the relatively long time required to reach maximum plasma concentrations) and patient characteristics (previous triptan exposure) in the management of acute migraine attacks. Based on the pharmacokinetics and actions on cortical spreading depression, tonabersat may have potential value in migraine prophylaxis.

UI  - 19723121
TI  - Efficacy and safety of tonabersat, a gap-junction modulator, in the acute treatment of migraine: a double-blind, parallel-group, randomized study.
AB  - The ability of tonabersat to relieve the symptoms of migraine attacks with or without aura was evaluated in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicentre, parallel-group study. Patients received 20 or 40 mg of tonabersat, or 50 mg of sumatriptan (positive control), or placebo at the onset of a moderate or severe attack. Headache intensity, relief and recurrence were recorded for 24 h after dosing. On the basis of primary or secondary efficacy measures, tonabersat did not provide a clinically or statistically significant advantage over placebo. Tonabersat generally was well tolerated and had no effect on vital signs, electrocardiogram recordings or laboratory values. The lack of efficacy may be a function of the slow absorption of tonabersat. As a consequence of slow absorption, daily administration of tonabersat as prophylaxis for migraine attacks is under investigation in ongoing studies.

UI  - 19719543
TI  - Topiramate treatment of chronic migraine: a randomized, placebo-controlled trial of quality of life and other efficacy measures.
AB  - In addition to significantly reducing mean monthly migraine/migrainous and migraine headache days, treatment of chronic migraine with topiramate was effective with regard to several traditionally important and clinically relevant secondary outcomes in migraine prevention trials. Treatment with topiramate was well tolerated and not associated with serious adverse events.

UI  - 19705061
TI  - Interictal quantitative EEG in migraine: a blinded controlled study.
AB  - Abnormal electroencephalography (EEG) in migraineurs has been reported in several studies. However, few have evaluated EEG findings in migraineurs during a time period when neither the last attack nor the next attack may interact with the results. We, therefore, compared interictal EEG in migraineurs and headache-free subjects with a design controlled for interference by pre-ictal changes. Pre-ictal EEG findings in the painful cranial side during the next attack after registration were also investigated. Correlations between clinical variables and EEG are reported as well. Interictal EEGs from 33 migraineurs (6 with and 27 without aura) and 31 controls were compared. Absolute power, asymmetry and relative power were studied for delta, theta and alpha frequency bands in parieto-occipital, temporal and fronto-central areas. EEG variables were correlated to attack frequency, headache duration, attack duration, pain intensity, photo- and phonophobia. Compared with controls, migraineurs had increased relative theta power in all cortical regions and increased delta activity in the painful fronto-central region. Absolute power and asymmetry were similar among groups. In age-adjusted analyses, headache intensity correlated with increased delta activity. In this blinded controlled study, we found globally increased relative theta activity in migraineurs. A slight interictal brain dysfunction is probably present between attacks.

UI  - 19703372
TI  - Rapid absorption of sumatriptan powder and effects on glyceryl trinitrate model of headache following intranasal delivery using a novel bi-directional device.
AB  - Administration of sumatriptan intranasally at doses of 10 mg and 20 mg by the breath actuated bi-directional powder delivery device results in rapid absorption. Delivery to target sites beyond the nasal valve induced a similar EEG profile to subcutaneous sumatriptan 6 mg and prevented migraine attacks in patients following GTN challenge. Intranasal administration of sumatriptan powder with the breath actuated bi-directional powder delivery device was well tolerated.

UI  - 19682021
TI  - Treatment of migraine in Australian Emergency Departments.
AB  - 

UI  - 19680473
TI  - A pilot study of rizatriptan and visually-induced motion sickness in migraineurs.
AB  - These pilot data suggest that rizatriptan does not consistently reduce visually-induced motion sickness in migraineurs. Rizatriptan may diminish motion sickness potentiation by cranial pain.

UI  - 19667978
TI  - Escitalopram and venlafaxine for the prophylaxis of migraine headache without mood disorders.
AB  - There is evidence that some antidepressant drugs are beneficial in the prophylaxis of migraine. Previous reports have shown that migraine patients may respond to various antidepressant agents used for prophylactic therapy. The main purpose of this study was to compare the efficacy of antidepressants from 2 different groups (venlafaxine vs escitalopram) on people who had migraine headache without depression or anxiety. In this prospective study, we evaluated the headache diaries of 93 patients who were being treated with venlafaxine (n = 35) and escitalopram (n = 58). At the end of the 3-month period, patients were reassessed, and those with marked differences in attack frequency, duration, intensity (with visual analog scales), lost work-day equivalent index, and migraine disability assessment questionnaire were compared. There was a clear reduction in headache frequency (P < 0.0001), duration (P < 0.0001), and severity (P < 0.0001) in the venlafaxine group. In addition, there was a significant improvement in daily work performance during headaches (P < 0.0001). In the escitalopram group, monthly headache frequency (P < 0.026), duration (P < 0.002), and intensity (P < 0.027) all decreased significantly, although not to the same extent as with venlafaxine. After the third month of venlafaxine and escitalopram treatment, most of the patients (82.8% vs 96.5%) were seen to have moved to the minimal or infrequent migraine disability assessment group. According to our findings, venlafaxine and escitalopram are both effective in the prophylaxis of migraine headache without depression and anxiety. This effect was independent of mood disorder. Escitalopram should be the first choice because of its fewer side effects, but venlafaxine may be used if escitalopram is found to be insufficient.

UI  - 19656221
TI  - Clinical assessment of topiramate therapy in patients with migrainous vertigo.
AB  - In the overall group, topiramate was found to be effective in reducing the frequency and the severity of vertigo and headache attacks. Both doses of the drug were equally efficacious. The 50 mg/day dose seems to be appropriate as higher adverse effects were noted when 100 mg/day was used.

UI  - 19644260
TI  - A placebo-controlled surgical trial of the treatment of migraine headaches.
AB  - This study confirms that surgical deactivation of peripheral migraine headache trigger sites is an effective alternative treatment for patients who suffer from frequent moderate to severe migraine headaches that are difficult to manage with standard protocols.

UI  - 19622887
TI  - Botulinum toxin as preventive treatment for migraine: a randomized double-blind study.
AB  - Our study showed a trend towards a reduced attack rate with verum but did not show any statistically significant efficacy of BoNT-A in the prophylactic treatment of migraine.

UI  - 19622115
TI  - IL-6 levels in migraine patients receiving topiramate.
AB  - There is considerable evidence suggesting that cytokines play important roles in pain and in mediating neurovascular inflammation associated with migraine headaches. Although consensus exists to recommend topiramate (TPM) for migraine prevention, the mechanism of action in this regard is unknown. We measured serum interleukin-6 (IL-6) levels in 66 migraine patients. Of these patients, 23 (34.9%) were taking TPM for migraine, and 43 (65.1%) were not. The IL-6 levels were compared with those of healthy controls without migraine, from the population living in the same region. The mean IL-6 levels in migraine patients taking TPM and patients who did not were 67.06 +/- 92.09 pg/mL and 44.09 +/- 59.19 pg/mL, respectively (P > 0.05). The IL-6 levels were higher in the patients taking TPM. The IL-6 level in the controls was 8.60 +/- 7.36 pg/mL, which was significantly lower than the patient group using TPM (P = 0.001). Our results show that, although IL-6 may be involved in pain induction or inflammatory mechanisms of migraine attacks, the serum IL-6 level was not reduced in migraine patients receiving TPM therapy. In conclusion, we found high IL-6 levels in migraine patients both with and without TPM therapy, suggesting that high IL-6 levels during pain-free periods could be a conditioning factor, making patients more vulnerable to pain attacks in chronic migraine. Further studies investigating the possible mechanism of TPM in migraine are needed.

UI  - 19622107
TI  - Chronic migraine: a prospective descriptive clinical study in a headache center population.
AB  - This study describes the pain characteristics of the chronic migraine, including duration, intensity, quality, aggravation by activity, associated features in a headache clinic. One hundred twenty-one chronic migraine patients were evaluated. A total of 79% patients were female, and the mean age was 43.6 years, ranging from 19.0 to 54.2 years. The pain characteristics were predominantly unilateral; either side attacks (43.8%), strictly left-side (19%), or right side (19%). Headache character was reported as throbbing (67%), aching (14%), stabbing (10%), and pressure (9%). Of the associated autonomic features, lacrimation was the most common. Photophobia (83.5%) and phonophobia (72.7%) often were noted. When compared, only previous headache diagnosis, headache character and onset of headache were found to be statistically different between female and male patients (P < 0.05).

UI  - 19614965
TI  - Prednisolone reduces nitric oxide-induced migraine.
AB  - Pre-treatment with prednisolone did not reduce the immediate GTN-induced headache, did not inhibit the frequency of delayed headache but significantly decreased the intensity of delayed GTN-induced headache. These findings suggest that GTN causes induction of inflammatory mediators, and that this is the mechanism of delayed GTN-induced migraine. They also support a role of inflammatory mediators in spontaneous migraine attacks.

UI  - 19614689
TI  - Prostaglandin I2 (epoprostenol) triggers migraine-like attacks in migraineurs.
AB  - Prostacyclin [prostaglandin I(2) (PGI(2))] activates and sensitizes meningeal sensory afferents. In healthy subjects PGI(2) triggers headache in healthy subjects. However, the migraine-eliciting effect of PGI(2) has not been systematically studied in patients with migraine. We hypothesized that intravenous infusion of the stable prostacyclin analogue epoprostenol would trigger migraine-like attacks in migraineurs. We infused 10 ng kg(-1) min(-1) PGI(2) or placebo over 25 min in 12 migraineurs without aura in a controlled, double-blind, cross-over study and recorded headache intensity and associated symptoms, velocity in the middle cerebral artery (V(MCA)) and diameter in the superficial temporal artery. In the period 0-14 h, 12 subjects reported headache on PGI(2) day compared with three subjects on placebo day (P = 0.004), and six subjects fulfilled the criteria for an experimentally induced migraine-like attack compared with two subjects on placebo (P = 0.219). During infusion and post-infusion phases the AUC under the headache curve on PGI(2) was significantly larger than on placebo (P < 0.05). There was a significant V(MCA) decrease (P = 0.015) and superficial temporal artery diameter increase (P < 0.001) on PGI(2) compared with placebo. In conclusion, PGI(2) may trigger a migraine-like attack in migraine sufferers. We suggest sensitization of perivascular nociceptors and arterial dilation as the mode of action of PGI(2)-induced headache and migraine-like attacks.

UI  - 19614687
TI  - Carbachol induces headache, but not migraine-like attacks, in patients with migraine without aura.
AB  - Carbachol induces headache in healthy subjects, but the migraine eliciting effect of carbachol has not previously been studied. We hypothesized that the cholinomimetic agonist carbachol would induce headache and migraine-like attacks in migraineurs. Carbachol (3g/kg) or placebo was randomly infused into 18 patients with migraine without aura in a double-blind crossover study. Headache was scored on a verbal rating scale from 0 to 10. Velocity in the middle cerebral artery (V(MCA)) and diameter of the superficial temporal artery (STA) were recorded. Fifteen patients experienced headache after carbachol compared with eight after placebo (P = 0.039). There was no difference in incidence of migraine-like attacks after carbachol (n = 8) compared with placebo (n = 6) (P = 0.687). Carbachol caused a decrease in V(MCA) (P = 0.044), but no change in STA (P = 0.089) compared with placebo. The study demonstrated that carbachol provocation is not a good model for experimental migraine.

UI  - 19606507
TI  - The efficacy of Kiko exercises on the prevention of migraine headaches: a pilot study.
AB  - Migraine headaches, a common chronic medical problem, require prophylactic treatment when they are frequent and severe. This is the first study to investigate the efficacy of Kiko, a Japanese practice of Qigong that uses repetitive coordinated breathing and movement as a prophylactic treatment of migraine headaches. This pilot study, a single arm, non-randomized 4-month trial, investigated whether 3 months of Kiko training would reduce the severity and/or frequency of migraine and/or MIDAS scores. The baseline migraine data were collected from participants in the first month and then participants were taught Kiko exercises in 3 monthly sessions. Participants practiced at home and had the opportunity to utilize a Kiko DVD. The participants were instructed by Washin-Ryu style martial arts Master, Hidy Ochiai. Subjects completed monthly diaries that recorded the frequency and severity of their migraines, as well as the frequency and duration of their home Kiko practice. Six of the original 13 subjects completed the trial. All the individuals who completed the study had measurable improvement in their migraines. All participants reported a positive experience in learning the technique, and there were no reported adverse effects. Although the results of this study need to be confirmed in a larger clinical trial with adequate controls for placebo effects, these preliminary results are consistent with other trials that have documented the potential benefits of mind-body practices in controlling symptoms and improving the quality of life of patients suffering from chronic medical illness.

UI  - 19589913
TI  - Relationship between migraine history and breast cancer risk among premenopausal and postmenopausal women.
AB  - Both migraine and breast cancer are hormonally mediated diseases, and it is biologically plausible that women with a history of migraine may have a reduced breast cancer risk. However, this relationship has only been assessed in a single relatively small study that was unable to assess the effect of migraine triggers, which are also well-established breast cancer risk factors (e.g., use of alcohol and exogenous hormones), on the inverse association observed. Utilizing data on 4,568 breast cancer cases and 4,678 controls who participated in a multicenter population-based case-control study in the United States, we evaluated the association between migraine history and breast cancer risk using unconditional logistic regression. Migraine history data were obtained from structured in-person interviews. Women with a history of migraine had a reduced risk of breast cancer [odds ratio, 0.74; 95% confidence interval (CI), 0.66-0.82]. This risk did not differ by menopausal status, age at migraine diagnosis, use of prescription migraine medications, or when analyses were restricted to women who avoided various migraine triggers (including alcohol, exogenous hormones, and smoking). These data support a previous finding that a history of migraine may be associated with a reduced risk of breast cancer. It extends the prior report in observing that this relationship holds for both premenopausal and postmenopausal women and is independent of exposure to common migraine triggers.

UI  - 19570717
TI  - Effects of tonabersat on migraine with aura: a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled crossover study.
AB  - Minster Pharmaceuticals; Lundbeck Foundation.

UI  - 19565729
TI  - [Acupuncture at points of the liver and gallbladder meridians for treatment of migraine: a multi-center randomized and controlled study].
AB  - Acupuncture at points of The Liver and Gallbladder Meridians for treatment of migraine is safe, effective, and with stable long-term therapeutic effect.

UI  - 19563186
TI  - [Effects of acupuncture preventive treatment on the quality of life in patients of no-aura migraine].
AB  - Acupuncture preventive treatment can effectively improve the life quality of the patients with migraine and reduce the migraine attack. There is no significant difference in improving the physical and psychological health of the migraine patients between acupuncture and Flunarizine Hydrochloride, and acupuncture is more effective in reducing the migraine attack days.

UI  - 19558539
TI  - Weight change and clinical markers of cardiovascular disease risk during preventive treatment of migraine.
AB  - Migraine, particularly migraine with aura, and increased body weight are independent risk factors for cardiovascular disease (CVD). The association of weight change and clinical markers of CVD risk was evaluated in subjects participating in a randomized double-blind, parallel-group study of migraine-preventive treatment comparing 100 mg/day of topiramate and amitriptyline. Individuals from both treatment groups were pooled and stratified into three groups. The 'major weight gain' group gained > or = 5% of their baseline body weight at the conclusion of the study; the 'major weight loss' group lost > or = 5% of their baseline body weight. The third group had < 5% of weight change. The influence of weight change in headache outcomes, as well as in markers of CVD (blood pressure, cholesterol, C-reactive protein), was assessed using analysis of covariance. Of 331 subjects, 52 (16%) experienced major weight gain and 56 (17%) experienced major weight loss. Weight change was not associated with differential efficacy for the treatment of headache. However, contrasted with those with major weight loss, those who gained weight experienced elevations in mean diastolic blood pressure (+2.5 vs. -1.2 mmHg), heart rate (+7.6 vs. -1.3 beats per minute), glycosylated haemoglobin (+0.09% vs. -0.04%), total cholesterol (+6.4 vs. -6.3 mg/dl), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (+7.0 vs. -4.4 mg/dl) and triglycerides (+15.3 vs. -10.4 mg/dl) and an increase in high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (+1.8 vs. -1.9 mg/l). Both groups experienced decreases in systolic blood pressure (-4.0 vs. -1.3 mmHg) and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (-3.7 vs. -0.8 mg/dl). Increased weight during migraine treatment is not associated with poor headache treatment outcomes, but is associated with deterioration of CVD risk markers.

UI  - 19553594
TI  - Migraine frequency and risk of cardiovascular disease in women.
AB  - In our data, the association between migraine and cardiovascular disease varies by migraine frequency. Significant associations were only found among women with migraine with aura. Ischemic stroke was the only outcome associated with a high-attack frequency while a low-attack frequency was associated with any vascular event. Low number of outcome events should caution the interpretation.

UI  - 19549162
TI  - Rapid oral transmucosal absorption of sumatriptan, and pharmacodynamics in acute migraine.
AB  - The initial pharmacokinetics of LS approximate to those of a subcutaneous injection, albeit some fraction of these doses is also swallowed. These pharmacokinetics correspond with earlier effectiveness of LS in comparison with a 50-mg sumatriptan tablet, and at lower dose, in an enriched, relevant patient population. These initial studies support further development of this innovative formulation of sumatriptan and this new route of administration.

UI  - 19549156
TI  - Headache prophylaxis with BoNTA: patient characteristics.
AB  - Majority of patients treated with BoNTA in a specialty HA center presented with a CM diagnosis. HA disability was correlated with measures of frequency and treatment utilization.

UI  - 19546766
TI  - Combination treatment for menstrual migraine and dysmenorrhea using sumatriptan-naproxen: two randomized controlled trials.
AB  - I.

UI  - 19545249
TI  - A randomized, double blind, placebo-controlled study of MAP0004 in adult patients with migraine.
AB  - In this study MAP0004 0.5 mg and 1.0 mg were well tolerated and effective at delivering clinically significant, rapid, and sustained pain relief in adult migraine patients. No additional benefit was observed with the higher dose, thus the MAP0004 0.5 mg systemic equivalent dose has been selected as the dose for further clinical study.

UI  - 19527281
TI  - Pain management practices in paediatric emergency departments in Australia and New Zealand: a clinical and organizational audit by National Health and Medical Research Council's National Institute of Clinical Studies and Paediatric Research in Emergency Departments International Collaborative.
AB  - We found a notable lack of pain assessment documentation and delays to analgesia. There is a need to improve pain assessment and management, although a majority of paediatric ED surveyed had important organizational and educational structures in place. Issues to explore include use of opioids in migraine and the underuse of femoral nerve blocks.

UI  - 19515124
TI  - Low-frequency rTMS of the vertex in the prophylactic treatment of migraine.
AB  - High-frequency repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) increases and low-frequency rTMS decreases neural excitability. Clinically, rTMS shows beneficial effects in the treatment of neurological and psychiatric disorders. Furthermore, chronic and neuropathic pain has been shown to respond to rTMS treatment. A small pilot study revealed prophylactic effects of high-frequency rTMS in migraine. As there is evidence of neuronal hyperexcitability in migraine, we conducted a placebo-controlled, blinded study to evaluate the therapeutic effects of low-frequency rTMS in migraine. The primary end-point was defined as a reduction of migraine attacks compared with placebo, secondary outcomes were a reduction in the total number of days with headache, hours with headache, pain intensity and a decrease of analgesic intake for migraine. Twenty-seven migraineurs completed the study and were treated with rTMS on five consecutive days. For the verum group, two trains of 500 pulses with a frequency of 1 Hz were applied over vertex with a round coil. For the treatment of the placebo group, a figure-of-eight sham coil was used. A significant decrease of migraine attacks could be observed in the verum group. However, when comparing these effects with placebo, no significance was evident. The same was true concerning secondary outcome measures with regard to days with migraine and total hours with migraine. No effects were evident for pain intensity and use of analgesics. The rTMS treatment was tolerated well. rTMS stimulation over vertex with 1Hz was not effective in migraine prophylaxis when compared with placebo. The positive effects regarding migraine attacks, days and total hours with migraine in the verum group are encouraging and indicate that further research on this topic is warranted.

UI  - 19514188
TI  - Electroacupuncture at Qiuxu (GB 40) for treatment of migraine--a clinical multicentral random controlled study.
AB  - EA at Qiuxu (GB 40) may show effect for migraine.

UI  - 19489886
TI  - The abnormal recovery cycle of somatosensory evoked potential components in children with migraine can be reversed by topiramate.
AB  - The aim of this study was to compare the recovery cycle of somatosensory evoked potentials (SEPs) in children with migraine without aura before and after treatment with topiramate. Eleven migraine children were studied before and after a 3-month treatment with topiramate at the average dose of 1.3 mg/kg/day. We calculated the SEP latency and amplitude modifications after paired electrical stimuli at 5, 20 and 40 ms interstimulus intervals, comparing them with a single stimulus condition assumed as baseline. In nine patients, who had a significant reduction in headache frequency after treatment, the recovery cycles of the P24 (P = 0.03) and N30 (P < 0.005) potentials were longer after than before topiramate treatment. In two migraineurs who did not show any improvement, the recovery cycles of the cortical SEP components were even shorter after treatment. Our results suggest that topiramate efficacy in paediatric migraine prophylaxis is probably related to restored cortical excitability.

UI  - 19486178
TI  - Fixed-dose sumatriptan and naproxen in poor responders to triptans with a short half-life.
AB  - In migraineurs who reported poor response to a short-acting triptan, sumatriptan/naproxen sodium was generally well tolerated and significantly more effective than placebo in conferring initial, intermediate, and sustained efficacy for pain and migraine-associated symptoms of photophobia and phonophobia.

UI  - 19486173
TI  - Acute treatment of intractable migraine with sphenopalatine ganglion electrical stimulation.
AB  - This study suggests a possible role for SPG stimulation in the treatment of refractory migraine headaches.

UI  - 19472447
TI  - Rizatriptan 10-mg ODT for early treatment of migraine and impact of migraine education on treatment response.
AB  - Rizatriptan 10-mg ODT, when taken early, while headache pain is mild, was superior to placebo at providing pain freedom at 2 hours and 24-hour sustained pain freedom.

UI  - 19470865
TI  - Side-effects and complications of foam sclerotherapy of the great and small saphenous veins: a controlled multicentre prospective study including 1,025 patients.
AB  - This study demonstrates in a large sample of patients a low rate of adverse reactions after FS of great and small saphenous trunks. However, but the eventuality of exceptional but more serious complications has to be taken into account in the management of patients. A multicentre study like this one takes into account different practices and reports all possible complications, thus demonstrating the need for a common validated protocol.

UI  - 19461827
TI  - Greater occipital nerve stimulation via the Bion microstimulator: implantation technique and stimulation parameters. Clinical trial: NCT00205894.
AB  - The Bion can be successfully inserted adjacent to the greater occipital nerve in an effort to treat refractory primary headache disorders. This microstimulator may provide effective occipital stimulation and headache control while minimizing the risks associated with percutaneous or paddle leads implanted subcutaneously in the occipital region.

UI  - 19457613
TI  - Nitroglycerin sensitises in healthy subjects CNS structures involved in migraine pathophysiology: evidence from a study of nociceptive blink reflexes and visual evoked potentials.
AB  - Nitroglycerin (NTG), a NO donor, induces an attack in migraine patients approximately 4-6 h after administration. The causative mechanisms are not known, but the long delay leaves room for a central effect, such as a change in neuronal excitability and synaptic transmission of various CNS areas involved in pain and behaviour including trigeminal nucleus caudalis and monoaminergic brain stem nuclei. To explore the central action of NTG, we have studied its effects on amplitude and habituation of the nociceptive blink reflex (nBR) and the visual evoked potential (VEP) before, 1 h and 4 h after administration of NTG (1.2 mg sublingual) or placebo (vehicle sublingual) in two groups of 10 healthy volunteers. We found a significant decrease in nBR pain and reflex thresholds both 1 and 4 h post-NTG. At the 4 h time point R2 latency was shorter (p=0.04) and R2 response area increased (p<0.01) after NTG but not after placebo. Habituation tended to become more pronounced after both NTG and placebo administration. There was a significant amplitude increase in the 5th VEP block (p=0.03) at 1h after NTG and in the 1st block (p=0.04) at 4 h. VEP habituation was replaced by potentiation at both delays after NTG; the change in habituation slope was significant at 1h (p=0.02). There were no significant VEP changes in subjects who received sublingual placebo. In conclusion, we found that in healthy subjects sublingual NTG, but not its vehicle, induces changes in a trigeminal nociceptive reflex and an evoked cortical response which are comparable to those found immediately before and during an attack of migraine. These changes could be relevant for the attack-triggering effect of NTG in migraineurs.

UI  - 19456878
TI  - Migraine treatment with rizatriptan and almotriptan: a crossover study.
AB  - Times to achieve PR and PF were significantly shorter for patients using rizatriptan, as compared with those using almotriptan.

UI  - 19456855
TI  - Two different doses of amitriptyline ER in the prophylaxis of migraine: long-term results and predictive factors.
AB  - The prophylactic effect of amitriptyline seen in our study was rather weak and did not differ between the two treatment groups. The results of this 6-month, prospective, open-label clinical observation are therefore not encouraging.

UI  - 19453958
TI  - Rapid responders to frovatriptan in acute migraine treatment: results from a long-term, open-label study.
AB  - Frovatriptan provides a remarkably fast and high headache response in a subgroup of more than one-third of migraineurs, with a very low 24-hour headache recurrence and low rescue medication intake.

UI  - 19438928
TI  - High-frequency transcranial magnetic stimulation on motor cortex of patients affected by migraine with aura: a way to restore normal cortical excitability?
AB  - We showed reduced motor intracortical inhibition (ICI) and paradoxical increase of intracortical facilitation (ICF) to 1 Hz repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) in patients affected by migraine with aura (MA). In conditions of enhanced excitability due to a reduced inhibition, high-frequency rTMS was found to potentiate intracortical inhibition. Here we explored the conditioning effects of high-frequency priming stimulation of motor cortex with the aim of normalizing excitability reverting paradoxical facilitation by 1 Hz rTMS in MA. Nine patients with MA and nine healthy controls underwent a paired-pulse TMS paradigm to evaluate motor intracortical excitability (ICI and ICF) before and after the following rTMS conditions: 1 Hz alone or preceded by a real or sham conditioning high-frequency (10 Hz) rTMS. Sham was used to control for rTMS specificity. In baseline, ICI was significantly lower in migraineurs with respect to controls. One hertz stimulation reduced motor evoked potential amplitude and ICF in healthy controls, while it caused a significant paradoxical ICF increase in migraineurs. High-frequency rTMS conditioning normalized excitability in migraine, increasing short ICI and so reversing the paradoxical effects of 1 Hz rTMS. These findings raise the possibility that the interictal reduced intracortical inhibition in migraine could be normalized by high-frequency rTMS. This would open perspectives for new treatment strategies in migraine prevention.

UI  - 19438916
TI  - Underdiagnosis and undertreatment of migraine in Italy: a survey of patients attending for the first time 10 headache centres.
AB  - The aim of this study was to asses the clinical features, pattern of healthcare and drug utilization of migraine patients attending 10 Italian headache centres (HC). Migraine is underdiagnosed and undertreated everywhere throughout the world, despite its considerable burden. Migraine sufferers often deal with their problem alone using self-prescribing drugs, whereas triptans are used by a small proportion of patients. All patients attending for the first time 10 Italian HCs over a 3-month period were screened for migraine. Migraine patients underwent a structured direct interview about previous migraine diagnosis, comorbidity, headache treatments and their side-effects and healthcare utilization for migraine. Patient satisfaction with their usual therapy for the migraine attack was evaluated with the Migraine-Assessment of Current Therapy (ACT) questionnaire. The quality of life of migraine patients was assessed by mean of Short Form (SF)-12 and Migraine-Specific Quality of life (MSQ) version 2.1 questionnaires. Of the 2675 patients who attended HCs for the first time during the study period, 71% received a diagnosis of migraine and the first 953 subjects completed the study out of 1025 patients enrolled. Only 26.8% of migraine patients had a previous diagnosis of migraine; 62.4% of them visited their general practitioner (GP) in the last year, 38.2% saw a specialist for headache, 23% attended an Emergency Department and 4.5% were admitted to hospital for migraine; 82.8% of patients used non-specific drugs for migraine attacks, whereas 17.2% used triptans and only 4.8% used a preventive migraine medication. Triptans were used by 46.4% of patients with a previous diagnosis of migraine. About 80% of migraine patients took over-the-counter medications. The Migraine-ACT revealed that 60% of patients needed a change in their treatment of migraine attacks, 85% of whom took non-specific drugs. Both the MSQ version 2.1 and the SF-12 questionnaires indicated a poor quality of life of most patients. Migraine represents the prevalent headache diagnosis in Italian HCs. Migraine is still underdiagnosed in Italy and migraine patients receive a suboptimal medical approach in our country, despite the healthcare utilization of migraine subjects being noteworthy. A cooperative network involving GPs, neurologists and headache specialists is strongly desirable in order to improve long-term migraine management in Italy.

UI  - 19438913
TI  - Delayed migraine-like headache in healthy volunteers after a combination of acetazolamide and glyceryl trinitrate.
AB  - Glyceryl trinitrate (GTN) is a pro-drug dissociating nitric oxide throughout the body. It dilates cephalic arteries without increasing cerebral blood flow (CBF). GTN induces headache in healthy volunteers and migraine attacks in migraineurs. Acetazolamide (Az) increases CBF but does not dilate cerebral arteries. The hypothesis tested here was that Az, by dilating cerebral arterioles but not arteries and thereby decreasing pulsatile stretching of the wall of the large arteries and their perivascular sensory nerves, would reduce or prevent the GTN-induced headache We tested this hypothesis in 14 healthy volunteers. In a randomized, double-blind, cross-over study, they were pretreated with Az or placebo followed on both study days by a GTN infusion of 0.5 microg kg(-1) min(-1) for 20 min. Headache was scored on a verbal rating scale and a headache diary was kept for 12 h. Mean blood velocity of the middle cerebral artery was measured (transcranial Doppler). Our hypothesis was disproved, as Az did not decrease GTN-induced headache. Unexpectedly but interestingly, GTN combined with Az induced more delayed headache than GTN alone. Furthermore, a migraine-like headache was observed in three volunteers, who did not develop migraine after GTN alone. The fact that a suitable pharmacological intervention may trigger migraine in individuals with no prior migraine may suggest that the ability to develop migraine without aura is a quantitative genetic trait.

UI  - 19438740
TI  - Acupuncture for treating acute attacks of migraine: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Verum acupuncture treatment is more effective than sham acupuncture based on either Chinese or Western nonacupoints in reducing the discomfort of acute migraine. Verum acupuncture is also clearly effective in relieving pain and preventing migraine relapse or aggravation. These findings support the contention that there are specific physiological effects that distinguish genuine acupoints from nonacupoints.

UI  - 19438735
TI  - Revisiting the efficacy of sumatriptan therapy during the aura phase of migraine.
AB  - Considering the discrepancy between the present and previous clinical studies, it is worthwhile revisiting the efficacy of preemptive triptan therapy during the aura phase of migraine attacks, using larger-scale, 3-way, crossover, placebo-controlled studies.

UI  - 19438730
TI  - Correlations of headache diary parameters, quality of life and disability scales.
AB  - Our findings suggest that participants in headache trials "learn" to fill in diaries and generic instruments in a more consistent manner during the course of the study.

UI  - 19438727
TI  - Zelrix: a novel transdermal formulation of sumatriptan.
AB  - The results from this study show that sumatriptan administration using a novel iontophoretic transdermal technology delivers plasma levels within the range for nasal spray, tablet, and injectable sumatriptan. Zelrix I and II were well tolerated and adverse events were mild and transient. Transdermal delivery of sumatriptan using the SmartRelief iontophoretic technology may prove beneficial for a large segment of the migraine population based upon fast, consistent delivery of drug and avoidance of common gastrointestinal disturbances associated with migraine.

UI  - 19414726
TI  - Mitochondrial DNA haplogroups influence the therapeutic response to riboflavin in migraineurs.
AB  - In this pharmacogenetic study, riboflavin appears to be more effective in patients with migraine with non-H mitochondrial DNA haplotypes. The underlying mechanisms are unknown, but could be related to the association of haplogroup H with increased activity in complex I, which is a major target for riboflavin. Our results may have ethnic implications, since haplogroup H is chiefly found in the European population.

UI  - 19393844
TI  - Topiramate versus amitriptyline in migraine prevention: a 26-week, multicenter, randomized, double-blind, double-dummy, parallel-group noninferiority trial in adult migraineurs.
AB  - In this noninferiority study, topiramate was at least as effective as amitriptyline in terms of reducing the rate of mean monthly migraine episodes and all prespecified secondary efficacy end points. Topiramate was associated with improvement in some quality-of-life indicators compared with amitriptyline and was associated with weight loss and improved weight satisfaction.

UI  - 19389262
TI  - The design and protocol of acupuncture for migraine prophylaxis: a multicenter randomized controlled trial.
AB  - The study design and the long term clinical practice of acupuncturists guarantee a high external validity for the results. The results of our trial will be helpful to supply the evidence on the efficacy of acupuncture for migraine prophylaxis in China.

UI  - 19384265
TI  - The effects of vitamin supplementation and MTHFR (C677T) genotype on homocysteine-lowering and migraine disability.
AB  - This study provides some early evidence that lowering homocysteine through vitamin supplementation reduces migraine disability in a subgroup of patients. Larger trials are now warranted to establish whether vitamin therapy is a safe, inexpensive and effective prophylactic option for treatment of migraine and whether efficacy is dependant on MTHFRC677T genotype.

UI  - 19371522
TI  - Randomized evaluation of octreotide vs prochlorperazine for ED treatment of migraine headache.
AB  - Prochlorperazine was statistically superior to octreotide in clinical success rate and decrease in pain in migraine patients but caused more restlessness and sedation.

UI  - 19367463
TI  - Differences in trigeminal and peripheral electrical pain perception in women with and without migraine.
AB  - Pain perception studies in migraine patients have shown trigeminal and peripheral pain facilitation during the migraine attack. We were interested in differences of trigeminal and peripheral pain perception between migraine patients during the migraine interval and healthy subjects. Perception of electrical pain stimulation was measured in 20 migraine subjects outside a migraine attack (10 migraine with aura and 10 migraine without aura) and in 20 healthy subjects. We recorded sensory and pain thresholds, pain ratings after suprathreshold stimulation, and pain rating after two trains of repetitive stimulation (i.e., pain facilitation). Migraine subjects showed a significantly higher pain rating after suprathreshold stimulation in the trigeminal region as compared to healthy subjects (4.8 +/- 1.6 versus 3.8 +/- 2.2, p < 0.04 after Bonferroni correction) but not in the peripheral region. Furthermore, migraine subjects showed a pain facilitation after repetitive trigeminal stimulation whereas healthy subjects showed a pain habituation. We observed no significant differences between migraine subjects and healthy subjects for all parameters in the peripheral stimulation. Migraine patients with and without aura did not differ in any parameter. All subjects showed decreased sensory and pain thresholds after trigeminal as compared to peripheral stimulation. Migraine subjects show an increased pain perception after trigeminal but not after peripheral pain stimulation as compared to healthy subjects. This phenomenon is probably due to the observed pain facilitation after painful trigeminal stimulation.

UI  - 19366274
TI  - Pharmacokinetics of two 6-day frovatriptan dosing regimens used for the short-term prevention of menstrual migraine: A phase I, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, two-period crossover, single-centre study in healthy female volunteers.
AB  - Both frovatriptan regimens achieved steady-state therapeutic blood concentrations by day 2. Twice-daily dosing maintained more consistent drug concentrations than once-daily dosing and was well tolerated.

UI  - 19358499
TI  - [Effect of ear point combined therapy on plasma substance P in patients of no-aura migraine at different stages].
AB  - The ear point combined therapy can relieve pain possibly through decreasing plasma SP content, and the SP con tent possibly is one of main factors inducing migraine attack.

UI  - 19344670
TI  - Migraine prophylaxis with botulinum toxin A is associated with perception of headache.
AB  - The purpose of this study was to test whether the efficacy of prophylactic treatment with botulinum toxin A (BTX-A) on migraine frequency is related to the individual perception of the pain and its directionality, namely, exploding, imploding, or ocular migraine headache. Episodic and chronic migraine patients (n=82) previously treated with BTX-A were interviewed to characterize their migraine headache and its directionality. The magnitude of their response to treatment was analyzed vis--vis their individual type of headache. Patients showing a >67% drop in number of migraine days/month were classified as responders; those showing a drop smaller than 33% were labeled non-responders; patients showing a drop between 34% and 66% were considered questionable responders. After BTX-A treatment, the number of migraine days/month dropped 85.2+/-1.6% (from 20.1+/-1.5 to 2.8+/-0.4; p<0.0001) in 37 responders, 52.4+/-2.4% (from 16.3+/-3.5 to 7.2+/-1.5; p=0.003) in 11 questionable responders, and remained unchanged (21.2+/-1.8 vs. 21.1+/-1.7; p>0.78) in 34 non-responders. The frequency of headache types differed significantly (p<0.0001) across the 3 response sub-groups. Among non-responders, 83% described a buildup of pressure inside their head (exploding headache). Among responders and questionable responders, 84 and 64%, respectively, perceived their head to be crushed, clamped or stubbed by external forces (imploding headache) or an eye-popping pain (ocular headache). The prevalence of exploding, imploding, and ocular headache was similar between episodic and chronic migraine patients. Imploding/ocular migraine headache is more likely than exploding headache to be prevented by prophylactic BTX-A treatment. Further validation of this principle should await large-scale prospective, placebo-controlled studies.

UI  - 19338623
TI  - Treatment-refractory chronic migraine: the Ogre emerges from the shadows.
AB  - 

UI  - 19336787
TI  - Migraine in recurrent depression: case-control study.
AB  - The data suggest that not only is there a general relationship between headache and depression but also that among people with recurrent headache there is a specific association between depression and migraine with aura. The association is likely to be explained by overlapping aetiological risk factors.

UI  - 19329546
TI  - Randomised double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of the effects of the 'party pills' BZP/TFMPP alone and in combination with alcohol.
AB  - The objective of this study was to determine the clinical effects of party pills containing benzylpiperazine (BZP) and trifluoromethylphenylpiperazine (TFMPP) when taken alone and in combination with alcohol. The study was a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial conducted in a hospital-based clinic in Wellington, New Zealand. Thirty-five volunteers who had previously used party pills containing BZP were included in this trial. Participants received one of the following four treatments: 300 mg/74 mg BZP/TFMPP and placebo, 300 mg/74 mg BZP/TFMPP and 57.6 g (6 units) alcohol, placebo and 57.6 g (6 units) alcohol and double placebo. The primary outcome variable was a measure of driving performance, the standard deviation of lateral position (SDLP) measured at 6.5 h. Secondary measures included adverse events, cardiovascular effects, psychological function and delayed effects on sleep. The study was stopped early, after 35 of the planned 64 subjects had undertaken testing, because of severe adverse events that occurred in four of 10 BZP/TFMPP-only subjects, three of seven combined BZP/TFMPP and alcohol subjects, none of the 6 placebo subjects, and none of the 12 alcohol-only subjects. The overall rate of severe adverse events (defined as causing considerable interference with usual activity and/or rated by subject as severe) in those receiving BZP/TFMPP was seven of 17 (41.2%, 95% CI 18.4-67.1). The severe events included agitation, anxiety, hallucinations, vomiting, insomnia and migraine. BZP/TFMPP significantly improved the driving performance, decreasing SDLP at -4.2 cm (95% CI -6.8 to -1.6, P = 0.002). The effect of alcohol was to increase SDLP: 2.3 cm (95% CI -0.3 to 4.9, P = 0.08). BZP/TFMPP also resulted in increased heart rate and blood pressure and in difficulty in getting to sleep. BZP/TFMPP alone or with alcohol carries a significant risk of severe adverse events when taken in similar doses to those recommended by manufacturers.

UI  - 19328348
TI  - Electronystagmography in migraine equivalent syndrome.
AB  - In the healthy patients, VVOR nystagmus is always homodirectional to OKN and indicates the optokinetic system prevalence on VOR. The presence of a VVOR nystagmus homodirectional to VOR indicates the absence of the optokinetic system prevalence due to a central nervous system (CNS) modification and highlights a CNS disease. Our data highlight a possible correlation between CNS disorders and migraine equivalent syndrome.

UI  - 19278973
TI  - Migraines during pregnancy linked to stroke and vascular diseases: US population based case-control study.
AB  - In this large, population based sample of pregnant women admitted to hospital, a strong relation existed between active peripartum migraine and vascular diagnoses during pregnancy. Because these data do not allow determination of which came first, migraine or the vascular condition, prospective studies of pregnant women are needed to explore this association further.

UI  - 19255022
TI  - Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of topiramate for migraine prevention in pediatric subjects 12 to 17 years of age.
AB  - The 100 mg/day topiramate group demonstrated efficacy in the prevention of migraine in pediatric subjects. Overall, topiramate treatment was safe and well tolerated.

UI  - 19250283
TI  - Telmisartan in migraine prophylaxis: a randomized, placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - We evaluated telmisartan 80 mg for migraine prophylaxis. Migraine patients (n = 95) with three to seven migraine attacks in 3 months were randomized, double-blind to telmisartan or placebo. The primary end-point was the reduction in the number of migraine days (i.e. a day with > or = 1 h of symptoms) between the 4-week baseline period and the last 4 weeks of the 12-week treatment period. A responder was recorded when there was a symptom reduction of > or = 50% in these 4-week baseline and treatment periods. The reduction in migraine days was 1.65 with telmisartan and 1.14 with placebo (P > 0.05). Post hoc analyses adjusting for baseline and centre showed a 38% reduction in migraine days with telmisartan vs. 15% with placebo (P = 0.03), and a borderline significant difference in responders (40% vs. 25%, P = 0.07). The incidence of adverse events was similar between treatments. This study indicates that telmisartan might be effective in migraine prophylaxis.

UI  - 19245387
TI  - Posttraumatic stress disorder in migraine.
AB  - The frequency of PTSD in migraineurs, whether episodic or chronic, is higher than the historically reported prevalence of PTSD in the general population. In addition, in the subset of migraineurs with depression, PTSD frequency is greater in CDH sufferers than in episodic migraineurs. Finally, the presence of PTSD is independently associated with greater headache-related disability in migraineurs.

UI  - 19239674
TI  - Depression, migraine with aura and migraine without aura: their familiality and interrelatedness.
AB  - Migraine is frequently comorbid with depression. There appear to be common aetiological factors for both disorders, but the aetiology of migraine within depressed patients, in particular the significance of aura, has been little studied. A large sample of concordantly depressed sibling pairs [the Depression-Network (DeNT) sample] was assessed as having migraine with aura (MA), migraine without aura (MoA), probable migraine or no migraine according to International Headache Society guidelines. Correlations between siblings' migraine status were used to assess the nature of familial liability to migraine. A multiple threshold isocorrelational model fit best, in which different syndromes are conceptualized as different severities of one underlying dimension rather than as having separate aetiologies. Thus, MA and MoA were found to be different forms of the same disorder, with MA occupying the more extreme end of the spectrum of liability. Implications for our understanding of the relationship between migraine and depression are discussed.

UI  - 19222595
TI  - Evaluation of carisbamate for the treatment of migraine in a randomized, double-blind trial.
AB  - Carisbamate was not more efficacious in migraine prophylaxis than placebo in this well-controlled study that included a suitable population. However, carisbamate monotherapy was well tolerated at doses up to 600 mg per day.

UI  - 19222588
TI  - Impact of recent prior opioid use on rizatriptan efficacy. A post hoc pooled analysis.
AB  - Recent prior opioid use was associated with lower triptan response. Because of the post hoc nature of the analysis and limitations in capturing amount of opioid used, as well as to adjust for disability levels, these findings require replication in prospective studies.

UI  - 19222510
TI  - Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, proof-of-concept study of the cortical spreading depression inhibiting agent tonabersat in migraine prophylaxis.
AB  - Tonabersat is a novel putative migraine prophylactic agent with an unique stereospecific binding site in the brain. Tonabersat has been shown, in animal models, to inhibit experimentally induced cortical spreading depression, the likely underlying mechanism for migraine aura, and cerebrovascular responses to trigeminal nerve stimulation. The aim was to study the potential for tonabersat as a migraine preventive. A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicentre, parallel group study recruited patients with migraine with and without aura experiencing between two and six migraine attacks per month. After a 1-month baseline they received tonabersat 20 mg daily for 2 weeks and 40 mg daily for a further 10 weeks. The primary end-point was the change in mean number of migraine headache days between the third month and the baseline period in the intention-to-treat population comparing the placebo (n = 65) and tonabersat (n = 58) groups. At the primary end-point there was a 1.0-day (95% confidence interval -0.33, 2.39; P = 0.14) difference in reduction in migraine days between tonabersat and placebo. There were 10 secondary efficacy end-points, of which two were statistically significant. In month 3 of treatment, the responder rate, defined as a 50% reduction in migraine attacks, was 62% for tonabersat and 45% for placebo (P < 0.05), and the rescue medication use was reduced in the tonabersat group compared with placebo by 1.8 days (P = 0.02). Placebo responses were particularly high for all end-points. At least one treatment-emergent adverse event was reported in the tonabersat group in 61% of patients compared with 51% in the placebo group; none was worrisome. Placebo responses were unexpectedly high in this trial, complicating straightforward interpretation of the study results. The good tolerability and promising efficacy results support further exploration of higher doses of tonabersat in larger controlled trials.

UI  - 19221299
TI  - ACE D/I polymorphism, migraine, and cardiovascular disease in women.
AB  - Data from this large cohort of women do not suggest an association of the ACE deletion/insertion (D/I) polymorphism with migraine, migraine aura status, or cardiovascular disease (CVD). The increased risk for CVD among migraineurs with aura was only apparent for carriers of the DD/DI genotype. Due to limited number of outcome events, however, future studies are warranted to further investigate this association.

UI  - 19220503
TI  - Allodynia-associated symptoms, pain intensity and time to treatment: predicting treatment response in acute migraine intervention.
AB  - Almotriptan 12.5 mg was efficacious in providing 2-hour pain free, 2-hour pain relief, SPF, and reducing rescue medication use irrespective of the presence of AAS at the time of treatment. The most optimal efficacy outcomes occurred when patients treated migraine attacks early and before the onset of severe pain. The presence of AAS, which may indicate an early phase of allodynia, did not influence the efficacy of almotriptan therapy.

UI  - 19220307
TI  - Consistency of response to sumatriptan/naproxen sodium in a placebo-controlled, crossover study.
AB  - Two identical randomized, placebo-controlled, crossover studies were conducted to evaluate consistency of response to sumatriptan/naproxen sodium 85/500 mg (S/NS) over four attacks in adults with migraine. Patients were instructed to treat within 1 h of pain onset while pain was mild. Co-primary end-points were pain-free response at 2 h (2hPF) and 24-h sustained pain-free response (24hSPF) calculated as percentages of all attacks. In Study 1, 570 patients treated 1693 attacks with S/NS and 424 with placebo. In Study 2, 565 patients treated 1678 attacks with S/NS and 422 with placebo. Compared with placebo, S/NS conferred higher 2hPF rates (Study 1: S/NS 52%, placebo 25%; Study 2: S/NS 50%, placebo 20%; both P < 0.001) and higher 24hSPF rates (Study 1: S/NS 37%, placebo 17%; Study 2: S/NS 34%, placebo 12%; both P < 0.001). 2hPF was reported in at least two of the first three S/NS-treated attacks in 55.0% of patients in Study 1 and 52.1% of patients in Study 2. 24hSPF was reported in at least two of the first three S/NS-treated attacks in 35.7% of patients in Study 1 and 32.6% of patients in Study 2. The incidences of any adverse event and of specific adverse events were low and generally similar between S/NS and placebo.

UI  - 19175613
TI  - Large-scale screening and subsequent effects of migraine treatment on the work floor in the Netherlands.
AB  - In a large retail business group the ID Migraine Screening Test was sent to employees with three or more absences from work in the past year (n = 2893). Employees with positive results were invited for a neurological consultation and migraine patients were randomly assigned to: first attack 'treated as usual' and the second attack treated with 40 mg eletriptan, or reversed order. Of the 2893 employees, 799 responded (28%), 260 were positively screened for migraine (33%), 84 patients were diagnosed by a neurologist and 41 of the 75 included patients completed the protocol. Eletriptan induced pain-free response in 33.3% of the patients at 4 h compared with 0% after 'non-specific' treatment (P = 0.03). Eletriptan also significantly improved quality of life, but differences in absence from work and productivity loss could not be detected. In conclusion, in-company screening can be beneficial for undertreated employees, but implementation obstacles can reduce the effectiveness of screening.

UI  - 19172218
TI  - Patent foramen ovale closure and migraine: are we following the wrong pathway?
AB  - 

UI  - 19156474
TI  - Reduced cerebellar inhibition in migraine with aura: a TMS study.
AB  - Subtle clinical cerebellar alterations have been found in migraine. Moreover, abnormalities in visual and motor cortex excitability consistent with a lack of inhibitory efficiency have been described in migraine, and it is known that cerebellum exerts an inhibitory control on cerebral cortex. Here, we investigated if impairment of cerebellar activity on motor cortex, i.e. reduced inhibitory control, can be found in migraine. Ten migraineurs with aura and seven healthy controls underwent a transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) protocol to investigate the cerebellar inhibitory drive on motor cortex: a conditioning pulse on right cerebellar cortex was delivered 5, 7, 10, 15 ms before a test stimulus (TS) on contralateral motor cortex. The cerebellar conditioning stimulus inhibits the size of the motor-evoked potential (MEP) produced by the TS alone by approximately 30-50%. Amplitude of MEP to TS alone showed no significant difference between patients and controls. Cerebellar conditioning TMS showed a significant deficit of cerebellar inhibition in migraine patients as compared to controls at all interstimulus intervals (5-15 ms) tested. Cerebellar inhibition is reduced in migraineurs. This could account, at least in part, for the reduced inhibitory efficiency previously showed in cerebral cortex of these patients.

UI  - 19134454
TI  - [Herbs for calming liver and suppressing liver-yang in treatment of migraine with hyperactive liver-yang syndrome and its effects on lymphocyte protein expression: a randomized controlled trial].
AB  - Herbs for calming liver and suppressing liver-yang is effective in treating migraine, and can improve TCM symptoms. The effects on migraine patients with hyperactivity of liver-yang syndrome may be related to regulating the blood lymphocyte protein expression.

UI  - 19126117
TI  - Effect of adrenomedullin on the cerebral circulation: relevance to primary headache disorders.
AB  - Adrenomedullin (ADM) is closely related to calcitonin gene-related peptide, which has a known causative role in migraine. Animal studies have strongly suggested that ADM has a vasodilatory effect within the cerebral circulation. For these reasons, ADM is also likely to be involved in migraine. However, the hypothetical migraine-inducing property and effect on human cerebral circulation of ADM have not previously been investigated. Human ADM (0.08 microg kg(-1) min(-1)) or placebo (saline 0.9%) was administered as a 20-min intravenous infusion to 12 patients suffering from migraine without aura in a crossover double-blind study. The occurrence of headache and associated symptoms were registered regularly 24 h post infusion. Cerebral blood flow (CBF) was measured by (133)Xenon single-photon emission computed tomography, mean blood flow velocity in the middle cerebral artery (V(MCA)) by transcranial Doppler and the diameter of peripheral arteries by transdermal ultrasound (C-scan). ADM did not induce significantly more headache or migraine compared with placebo (P = 0.58). CBF was unaffected by ADM infusion (global CBF, P = 0.32 and rCBF(MCA), P = 0.38) and the same applied for the V(MCA) (P = 0.18). The superficial temporal artery dilated compared with placebo (P < 0.001), and facial flushing was seen after ADM administration (P = 0.001). In conclusion, intravenous ADM is not a mediator of migraine headache and does not dilate intracranial arteries.

UI  - 19125875
TI  - Clinical significance of brush allodynia in emergency patients with migraine.
AB  - Cutaneous brush allodynia is an uncommon finding in the ED, occurring in fewer than 1 in 5 migraineurs. It does not seem to have prognostic relevance for the ED-based management of the acute migraine attack.

UI  - 19114966
TI  - The effect of vitamin E on the treatment of menstrual migraine.
AB  - Vitamin E is effective in relieving symptoms due to menstrual migraine.

UI  - 19112417
TI  - Clinical characteristics of 226 college-going female migraineurs in Lahore, Pakistan - putting ICHD-2 to the road test.
AB  - The International Headache Society (IHS) criteria-based questionnaires were given to 647 college-going females (faculty and students) of selected universities in Lahore, Pakistan. Forty five (7%) were diagnosed with Migraine with Aura (MWA), 181 (28%) with Migraine without Aura (MWOA) and 421 (65%) as NMH (non-migrainous headache). We found 'Photophobia and Phonophobia' as the most common headache-associated symptoms, and 'Stress' and lack of sleep' as the most commonly reported triggers of MWA (44%) and MWOA (38%). Most common headache management practice amongst migraineurs was 'sleep' [MWA (35%) and MWOA (39%)]. This is the first paper which elucidates the symptomatology, risk factors and treatment modalities of migraineurs in Pakistan.

UI  - 19087155
TI  - Subcutaneous histamine versus botulinum toxin type A in migraine prophylaxis: a randomized, double-blind study.
AB  - This randomized study demonstrated that both histamine and BoNTA are similarly effective and well tolerated in reducing or eliminating headache in migraine prophylaxis. Low doses of histamine applied subcutaneously may represent a novel and effective therapeutic alternative in migraine patients and lay the clinical and pharmacological groundwork for the use of H3 agonist in migraine prophylaxis.

UI  - 19076647
TI  - Correlation of increase in phosphene threshold with reduction of migraine frequency: observation of levetiracetam-treated subjects.
AB  - Phosphene threshold increased during treatment with levetiracetam. At the 10% significance level, headache frequency and phosphene threshold were negatively correlated.

UI  - 19076646
TI  - Botulinum toxin type-A (BOTOX) in the treatment of occipital neuralgia: a pilot study.
AB  - Our results indicate that BTX-A improved the sharp/shooting type of pain most commonly known to be associated with occipital neuralgia. Additionally, the quality of life measures assessing burden and long-term impact of the headaches, further corroborated improvement seen in daily head pain.

UI  - 19073842
TI  - Comparison of the effectiveness of topiramate and sodium valproate in pediatric migraine.
AB  - Frequent migraine headaches can have a significant impact on disability, prompting the need for early recognition and treatment. The objective of this study is to compare the efficacy of topiramate and sodium valproate for the prevention of pediatric migraine, retrospectively. Mean monthly migraine frequency, intensity, and duration in the 28 patients treated with topiramate decreased from 15.3 +/- 10.1 to 4.4 +/- 5.5 episode, from 6.8 +/- 1 to 3.2 +/- 1, and from 10.2 +/- 9.4 to 2.4 +/- 3.1 hours, respectively. Headache disability improved with a reduction of Pediatric Migraine Disability Assessment score from 36 +/- 29.5 to 4.6 +/- 6.5 (P < .05). Similarly, mean monthly headache frequency, headache intensity, headache duration, and Pediatric Migraine Disability Assessment score in the 20 patients treated with sodium valproate decreased from 20.1 +/- 10.2 to 6.6 +/- 8.6, from 7.1 +/- 1 to 3.4 +/- 2.1, from 7 +/- 12 to 1.4 +/- 2.5 hours, and from 20.5 +/- 16.1 to 5.5 +/- 9.2, respectively (P < .05). In conclusion, valproate and topiramate seem to be able to manage successfully childhood migraine without substantial differences in efficacy.

UI  - 19055510
TI  - Throbbing pain is related to Queckenstedt's test effect in migraine patients.
AB  - The Queckenstedt's (Q)-test can aggravate headache intensity during migraine attacks (Q-test effect). The objective of this study was to delineate the Q-test effect in patients experiencing migraine attacks. We performed a 30-s Q- and a sham test on 39 patients with acute migraine attacks in both supine and sitting positions. Headache intensities during and 30 s after the Q- or sham tests were recorded on a 0-10 verbal scale. Brushing allodynia (BA) was recorded after using a gauze-brushing test over the patient's face and forearms. The Q- but not the sham test aggravated headache intensity in both sitting and supine positions. The presence of throbbing pain and higher pain intensities was associated with the Q-test effect in the supine position. However, the presence or absence of BA was not correlated. We concluded that the Q-test effect is likely to be related to peripheral sensitization of the meninges but not central sensitization. The Q-test effect may be used as an objective marker for peripheral sensitization.

UI  - 19052139
TI  - PACAP38 induces migraine-like attacks in patients with migraine without aura.
AB  - Experimental studies have shown that infusion of vasoactive neurotransmitters may trigger headache or migraine-like attacks in man. Pituitary adenylate cyclase activating peptide-38 (PACAP38) is a strong vasodilator found in trigeminal sensory and parasympathetic perivascular nerve fibers. We therefore hypothesized that infusion of PACAP38 would cause headache in healthy subjects and migraine-like attacks in migraine patients. Twelve healthy subjects and 12 migraine patients were examined in two separate studies. All subjects were allocated to receive 10 pmol/kg/min PACAP38 and placebo in a randomized, double-blind crossover study design. Headache was scored on a verbal rating scale (VRS) during hospital (0-2 h) and post-hospital (2-12 h) phases. Mean blood flow velocity in the middle cerebral artery (V(MCA)) by transcranial Doppler (TCD) and diameter of the superficial temporal artery (STA) by high resolution ultrasonography were recorded during hospital phase in migraineurs. PACAP38 infusion caused headache in all healthy subjects and 11 out of 12 migraine patients. Seven migraine patients experienced migraine-like attacks after PACAP38 and none after placebo (P = 0.016). Most of attacks (6 out of 7) occurred during the post-hospital phase [mean time 6 h (range 2-11)]. Two healthy subjects reported migraine-like attacks after PACAP38 during the hospital phase and none during the post-hospital phase. In the hospital phase, the area under the curve (AUC) for headache score was larger during PACAP38 infusion compared to placebo in healthy subjects (P = 0.005) and tended to be larger in migraineurs (P = 0.066). In the post-hospital phase, the AUC for headache was larger after PACAP38 infusion compared to placebo in both healthy subjects (P = 0.005) and migraine patients (P = 0.013). In migraine patients, PACAP38 caused a peak decrease of 16.1% in V(MCA) and a 37.5% increase in STA diameter at 20 min after start of infusion. In conclusion, PACAP38 infusion caused headache and vasodilatation in both healthy subjects and migraine patients. In migraine sufferers, PACAP38 caused delayed migraine-like attacks. The findings stimulate further investigation of the neuronal and vascular mechanisms of PACAP38.

UI  - 19040679
TI  - Divalproex sodium extended-release for the prophylaxis of migraine headache in adolescents: results of a stand-alone, long-term open-label safety study.
AB  - In this long-term open-label study of adolescents with migraine, the safety and tolerability profile of divalproex sodium extended-release was consistent with findings from previous trials in adults, as well as 2 studies recently completed in adolescents. In general, divalproex sodium extended-release was well-tolerated in adolescents with migraine.

UI  - 19040678
TI  - Safety and tolerability of divalproex sodium extended-release in the prophylaxis of migraine headaches: results of an open-label extension trial in adolescents.
AB  - In this long-term open-label extension study, the safety profile of divalproex sodium extended-release in adolescents with migraine was consistent with that observed in the preceding 3-month, double-blind trial and in previous adult studies. Overall, divalproex sodium extended-release was well-tolerated in adolescents aged 12 to 17 years.

UI  - 19036425
TI  - Efficacy and tolerability of MK-0974 (telcagepant), a new oral antagonist of calcitonin gene-related peptide receptor, compared with zolmitriptan for acute migraine: a randomised, placebo-controlled, parallel-treatment trial.
AB  - Merck Research Laboratories.

UI  - 19032123
TI  - Survey to evaluate diagnosis and management of headache in primary care: Headache Management Pattern programme.
AB  - A questionnaire such as the HMP programme inherently has limited depth, and the sampling procedure (GPs with triptan knowledge from three countries) needs to be considered when interpreting the results. Nevertheless, the survey provides important information relating to the management of headache in primary care, highlighting the need for both continuing medical education and also improved referral to specialist care.

UI  - 19031500
TI  - Migraine disability awareness campaign in Asia: migraine assessment for prophylaxis.
AB  - Migraine is the most common headache diagnosis in neurological services in Asia. The prevalence of migraine was higher in countries with higher referral rates of patients to neurological services. Migraine remains underdiagnosed and under-treated in this region even though a high disability was found in patients with migraine. Probable migraine was adopted into the migraine diagnostic spectrum by neurologists in this study.

UI  - 19031499
TI  - Memantine in the preventive treatment of refractory migraine.
AB  - This study offers preliminary evidence for the use of MEM in the prevention of refractory migraine.Double-blind studies are now required.

UI  - 19031498
TI  - Lay trainers with migraine for a home-based behavioral training: a 6-month follow-up study.
AB  - Lay trainers with migraine can train small groups of fellow patients at home in behavioral attack prevention. At 6-month follow-up, attack frequency and quality of life were significantly but modestly improved and feelings of control and self-confidence remained strongly improved.

UI  - 19001531
TI  - Pharmaceutical care for migraine and headache patients: a community-based, randomized intervention.
AB  - A short-term pharmaceutical care intervention improved patients' mental health and self-efficacy, although it did not significantly change the number and severity of headaches. The increase in self-efficacy and mental health associated with pharmaceutical care may be instrumental in improving long-term pharmacotherapy of patients with migraine and headache. To fully assess the effects of pharmaceutical care, a longer study may be required.

UI  - 18985592
TI  - [Preventive treatment of chronic migraine with zonisamide: a study in patients who are refractory or intolerant to topiramate].
AB  - The results, obtained in patients refractory to other preventatives and particularly to topiramate, suggest that zonisamide can be useful in the prevention of chronic migraine. Of course, controlled clinical trials are necessary to confirm these preliminary results.

UI  - 18984840
TI  - High-dose riboflavin for migraine prophylaxis in children: a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - This is the first study to evaluate the efficacy of riboflavin for migraine prophylaxis in children. This was a randomized, double-blind study of riboflavin (200 mg daily) versus placebo in 48 children. The primary efficacy measure was the number of patients achieving a 50% or greater reduction in the number of migraine attacks per 4 weeks. Other outcome measures were the mean severity of migraine per day, mean duration of migraine, days with nausea or vomiting, analgesic use, and adverse effects. A 50% or greater reduction in headaches was seen in 14/21 patients in the placebo group and 12/27 patients in the riboflavin group (not significant P = .125). There were no differences between riboflavin and placebo for primary or secondary outcome variables. These results suggest that riboflavin is not an effective therapy for preventing migraine in children. A high placebo responder rate was seen, with implications for other studies of migraine in children.

UI  - 18978487
TI  - Zonisamide for migraine prophylaxis in patients refractory to topiramate.
AB  - These results suggest that zonisamide is effective and well tolerated for migraine prevention in patients refractory to topiramate. With the exception of the inhibition of T-type calcium channels by zonisamide, its mechanisms of action seem to be very similar to topiramate's. We suggest the potential role of these channels in the pathophysiology of migraine.

UI  - 18953489
TI  - Development and validation of a pharmacy migraine questionnaire to assess suitability for treatment with a triptan.
AB  - A questionnaire (Migraine Questionnaire; MQ) was developed to help pharmacists identify consumers with migraine suitable for non-prescription treatment with a triptan. Adults, who knew or thought that they had migraine, participated in three, sequential, community-based studies to validate the MQ. Overall, 1,353 subjects completed independent assessments with a pharmacist and a clinician (reference standard). The accuracy of the pharmacist assessment of suitability for a triptan was compared with the clinician assessment. Clinicians using their standard practice determined that triptan therapy was suitable in 76.8% of cases compared with 48.8% for pharmacists using the MQ. The lack of concordance between pharmacists and clinicians in the false-positive cases (n = 113 of 660 subjects considered suitable for triptan by the pharmacists) usually related to headache diagnosis (57.5%), not safety aspects. The MQ is an effective tool for pharmacists to guide appropriate recommendation of a non-prescription triptan for migraine.

UI  - 18948696
TI  - Possible precipitation of migraine attacks with prophylactic treatment.
AB  - The initiation of a prophylactic treatment in a migraine sufferer depends upon the stratification of the patient's frequency of attacks and the disability they cause, as well as the patient's acute consumption and comorbid diseases. We report on 14 patients who were among a group of 618 migraine sufferers who received a new preventative treatment. These 14 patients developed an increase in the frequency of their migraine attacks that was possibly induced by this new prophylactic treatment. The clinical description of the migraine attacks remained the same but the frequency of the attacks of migraine without aura was dramatically increased. This is, to our knowledge, the first description of a possible precipitation of attacks of migraine without aura with a prophylactic treatment. There is no link with a specific class of prophylactic treatment. We hypothesize that the migraine sufferers who experienced aggravation after the new prophylactic drug had been introduced had a paradoxical decrease in the induction threshold for cortical spreading depression (CSD). Mechanisms of such a decrease are unknown and are probably multifactorial, but changes in serotonin neurotransmission have been experimentally demonstrated to modify cortical excitability and favour CSD. The aggravation was described only for attacks without aura. However, with only 14 patients, it is not possible to predict whether suffering from that the type of migraine is a factor that predisposes a patient to aggravation. While additional cases are necessary, physicians should be aware of the possibility that prophylactic treatment may exacerbate migraine attacks.

UI  - 18823363
TI  - Management of medication overuse headache: 1-year randomized multicentre open-label trial.
AB  - It is a general belief that patients with medication overuse headache (MOH) need withdrawal of acute headache medication before they respond to prophylactic medication. In this 1-year open-labelled, multicentre study intention-to-treat analyses were performed on 56 patients with MOH. These were randomly assigned to receive prophylactic treatment from the start without detoxification, undergo a standard out-patient detoxification programme without prophylactic treatment from the start, or no specific treatment (5-month follow-up). The primary outcome measure, change in headache days per month, did not differ significantly between groups. However, the prophylaxis group had the greatest decrease in headache days compared with baseline, and also a significantly more pronounced reduction in total headache index (headache days/month x headache intensity x headache hours) at months 3 (P = 0.003) and 12 (P = 0.017) compared with the withdrawal group. At month 12, 53% of patients in the prophylaxis group had > or = 50% reduction in monthly headache days compared with 25% in the withdrawal group (P = 0.081). Early introduction of preventive treatment without a previous detoxification programme reduced total headache suffering more effectively compared with abrupt withdrawal. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00159588).

UI  - 18823361
TI  - Headache classification by history has only limited predictive value for headache episodes treated in controlled trials with OTC analgesics.
AB  - We investigated the consistency between the headache diagnosis based on medical history and three treated headache episodes diagnosed based on a diary. In a randomized double-blind study including individuals with either migraine or tension-type headache (TTH) we showed significant superiority of the fixed combination of acetylsalicylic acid + paracetamol + caffeine over the combination without caffeine, the single preparations, and placebo in the treatment of headache. A neurologist performed a classification of the usual headache episodes and each of the three treated ones in a blinded fashion based on a structured questionnaire. This was done for the 1734 patients included in the efficacy analysis who usually treated their episodic TTH or migraine attacks with non-prescription analgesics. The overall percentage of patients with migraine and TTH remained relatively stable. The treated headache episodes were between 75 and 77% migraine, 18-20% were TTH and 5-7% could not be classified. We observed some shift in headache type within patients from prior history and in treated attacks. In 60% of patients all three treated episodes were of the type initially diagnosed by the neurologist by history (56% migraine and 4% episodic TTH). Of those with an initial diagnosis of migraine, 24% had at least one attack meeting criteria for TTH. Of patients with an initial diagnosis of TTH, 54% had at least one attack meeting the diagnostic criteria for migraine. Our results demonstrate that an initial headache diagnosis does not accurately predict the headache type treated in a randomized trial. Symptom features of treated headaches should be captured to ensure that the attack is of the type targeted by the clinical trial. The International Headache Society Guidelines for controlled clinical trials should be updated accordingly.

UI  - 18819179
TI  - Elimination of menstrual-related migraine beneficially impacts chronification and medication overuse.
AB  - Resolution of MRM correlated not only with conversion of CM to an episodic pattern, but also with a significant reduction in medication usage. It offers preliminary evidence that hormonal regimens may have a beneficial role in prevention of MRM.

UI  - 18810607
TI  - Melatonin to prevent migraine or tension-type headache in children.
AB  - We designed a 3-month open label trial of melatonin prophylaxis in children with primary headache. After a one month baseline period without receiving preventive drugs, all children received a 3-month course of melatonin, 3 mg, administered orally, at bedtime. A total of 22 children were enrolled (10 boys, mean age 12.2+/-2.6 years, age range 6-16 years), 13 had recurrent migraine without aura, 1 with aura and 8 had chronic tension-type headache. When the trial ended, 14 of the 21 subjects reported that the headache attacks had decreased by more than 50% in respect to baseline and 4 of them reported having no headache attacks. After receiving melatonin for one month one subject dropped out because of excessive daytime sleepiness. Our promising results warrant randomized placebo-controlled trials in children to assess the real effectiveness of melatonin in preventing primary headache.

UI  - 18799823
TI  - Serum and intraerythrocyte antioxidant enzymes and lipid peroxides in children with migraine.
AB  - The oxidant-antioxidant balance disorders underlie a number of acute and chronic diseases of the central nervous system (CNS). It is believed that oxidative stress plays a role in the pathogenesis of migraine. The study objective was to assess the processes of lipid peroxidation with malondialdehyde (MDA) as its major indicator and to determine the activities of antioxidant enzymes: superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) and glutathione reductase (GSSG-R) in the serum and erythrocytes of patients at developmental age with migraine with and without aura. The study group consisted of 34 patients at the age of 10-18 years (mean +/- standard deviation: 14.04 +/- 2.29 years), suffering from migraine. The control group included 38 patients, aged 4-17 years (mean age 12.11 +/- 3.46). MDA concentration and activities of SOD, GSH-Px and GSSG-R were determined in serum and erythrocytes of all the patients. In the migraine group, the MDA levels in serum and erythrocytes were statistically significantly lower than in control subjects (p < 0.001). In the migraine group, serum GSH-Px activity was significantly higher (p < 0.05). The GSSG-R activity in the erythrocytes of migraine children was significantly higher compared to controls (p < 0.001). SOD activity was decreased and GSH-Px was increased (non-significantly) in erythrocytes of migraineurs. Our results confirm the disturbances of lipid peroxidation processes in migraine and suggest the activation of antioxidant mechanisms. Its important indicator seems to be the increase in the GSSG-R activity in the erythrocytes and the GSH-Px activity in serum between migraine attacks. Further studies are necessary.

UI  - 18788838
TI  - Oral zolmitriptan in the short-term prevention of menstrual migraine: a randomized, placebo-controlled study.
AB  - Zolmitriptan 2.5 mg oral tablet is effective and well tolerated as a short-term preventative therapy for menstrual migraine attacks.

UI  - 18780581
TI  - Influence of comorbidities on improvement of fibromyalgia symptoms when treated with acupuncture: a short report.
AB  - For all MDCs combined, participants experienced significant improvement at 8 weeks of treatment. Participants with irritable bowel syndrome as their MDC generally had a lower percentage of improvement than other MDC cohort groups. This finding has implications for treatment.

UI  - 18779512
TI  - Calcitonin gene-related peptide does not cause the familial hemiplegic migraine phenotype.
AB  - Familial hemiplegic migraine (FHM) patients do not show hypersensitivity of the calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP)-cyclic adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate pathway, as characteristically seen in migraine patients without aura. This indicates that the pathophysiologic pathways underlying migraine headache in FHM may be different from the common types of migraine and questions whether CGRP antagonists would be effective in the treatment of FHM patients.
