
UI  - 25011274
TI  - [Clinical research of safflower injection on hibernating myocardial revascularization].
AB  - Coronary artery disease (CAD) is one of the leading causes of death. Safflower attracts great attention owing to its anti-ischemia/reperfusion injury effect. Ninety-three patients with CAD were included and randomized into safflower treatment group, PCI group and control group. Low-dose dobutamine stress echocardiography (DSE) was performed to measure end-systolic volume (ESV), end-diastolic volume (EDV), left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) and wall motion score index (WMSI) to determine the recovery of hibernating myocardium and cardiac function in all patients before treatment and after 3-month follow-up. The study was to investigate the effects of safflower on hibernating myocardial revascularization and cardiac function. It was found that LVEF was significantly improved, while the ESV and WMSI were significantly reduced after 2-week treatment in safflower and PCI treatment groups. No significant differences were found between safflower and PCI treatment groups in ESV, EDV, WMSI and LVEF after treatment Safflower injection effectively improved hibernating myocardial function.

UI  - 24890542
TI  - Comparison of double (360 mg) ticagrelor loading dose with standard (60 mg) prasugrel loading dose in ST-elevation myocardial infarction patients: the Rapid Activity of Platelet Inhibitor Drugs (RAPID) primary PCI 2 study.
AB  - In patients with STEMI undergoing PPCI, double (360 mg) ticagrelor LD failed to achieve a faster and more intense platelet inhibition as compared with the standard prasugrel LD. Intravenously administered aspirin allowed to achieve a very early inhibition of acid arachidonic pathway.

UI  - 24878117
TI  - Efficacy of pre-hospital use of glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors in ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction before mechanical reperfusion in a rapid-transfer network (from the Acute Myocardial Infarction Registry of Brittany).
AB  - Previous studies investigating prehospital use of glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors (GPIs) in patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction reached conflicting conclusions. The benefit of this strategy in addition to in-ambulance loading of dual-antiplatelet therapy remains controversial. The aim of this study was to analyze data from a prospective registry of patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarctions admitted <24 hours after symptom onset (July 2006 to May 2012). A total of 2,052 patients managed in a physician-staffed mobile intensive care unit (MICU)<12 hours after symptom onset and scheduled for primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PPCI) were retrospectively included. Patients who received GPIs in the MICU were compared with those who did not. The primary end point was infarct-related artery patency, defined as pre-PPCI Thrombolysis In Myocardial Infarction (TIMI) flow grade 3. GPIs were administered in the MICU to 737 patients (36%), including 430<2 hours after symptom onset, and 1,315 patients (64%) did not received prehospital GPIs. Pre-PPCI TIMI flow grade 3 rate was lower in patients treated in the MICU (17.2% vs 21.3%, p=0.03) because of patients treated >2 hours after symptom onset, of whom only 12.7% reached the primary end point. There was no significant difference between groups in the rate of in-hospital major adverse cardiac events. In conclusion, prehospital GPI use in patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarctions<12 hours after symptom onset scheduled for PPCI neither improved pre-PPCI infarct-related artery patency nor reduced in-hospital major adverse cardiac events.

UI  - 24864465
TI  - [Use of meldonium in the combination treatment of patients with heart failure in the early postinfarction period].
AB  - The patients with CHF using meldonium as part of combination therapy in the early post-infarction period were observed to have clinical improvement, a significant reduction in the rate of angina attacks and in the need for nitrates, a decrease in the number of arrhythmic and ischemic episodes, and favorable changes in cardiac structural and functional parameters and HRV values.

UI  - 24831577
TI  - Efficacy of early intensive rosuvastatin therapy in patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction undergoing primary percutaneous coronary intervention (ROSEMARY Study).
AB  - The purpose of the study was to investigate whether early high-dose potent statin therapy in patients with ST elevation myocardial infarction undergoing primary percutaneous coronary intervention can reduce infarct size compared with conventional low-dose statin therapy. In a randomized placebo-controlled multicenter trial, 185 patients were assigned either to an early high-dose rosuvastatin group (n= 92, rosuvastatin 40mg before treatment plus maintenance for 7days) or to a conventional low-dose rosuvastatin group (n= 93, placebo before treatment plus rosuvastatin 10-mg maintenance for 7days). Serial cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was performed during the acute (3 to 7days) and chronic (3months) phases. The primary end point was relative infarct volume assessed by MRI at 3months. Baseline characteristics were similar between the 2 groups, except hypertension, which was more prevalent in the high-dose group. Serial MRI data were available for 121 patients (high-dose group n= 54 and low-dose group n= 67). The relative infarct volumes in the acute (23.0  9.5% vs 20.5  11.7%, p= 0.208) and chronic (15.9  8.3% vs 15.8  9.7%, p= 0.943) phases were not different between the groups. No differences between groups were observed for periprocedural microvascular circulation evaluated by Thrombolysis In Myocardial Infarction flow grade, myocardial blush grade, ST-segment resolution, microvascular obstruction on cardiac MRI, or clinical outcomes. In conclusion, early high-dose rosuvastatin therapy in patients with ST elevation myocardial infarction undergoing primary percutaneous coronary intervention did not improve periprocedural myocardial perfusion or reduce infarct volume measured by MRI compared with the conventional low-dose rosuvastatin regimen.

UI  - 24819900
TI  - Comparison of 5-year survival after acute myocardial infarction using angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor versus angiotensin II receptor blocker.
AB  - Few studies have investigated whether angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) is a practical alternative to angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI) for long-term use after acute myocardial infarction (AMI) in real-world practice in the percutaneous coronary intervention era. We compared 5-year survival benefits of ACEI and ARB in patients with AMI registered in the Osaka Acute Coronary Insufficiency Study. Study subjects were divided into 3 groups: ACEI (n= 4,425), ARB (n= 2,158), or patients without either drug (n=2,442). A total of 661 deaths were recorded. Cox regression analysis revealed that treatment with either ACEI or ARB was associated with reduced 5-year mortality (adjusted hazard ratio [HR] 0.70, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.58 to 0.83, p <0.001 and HR 0.79, 95% CI 0.64 to 0.98, p= 0.03, respectively). However, Kaplan-Meier estimates and Cox regression analyses based on propensity score revealed that ACEI was associated with better survival than ARB from 2 to 5years after survival discharge (adjusted HR 0.53, 95% CI 0.38 to 0.74, p <0.001). These findings were confirmed in a propensity score-matched population. In conclusion, treatment with ACEI was associated with better 5-year survival after AMI.

UI  - 24754070
TI  - [Role of pFox inhibitors in the treatment of patients with acute myocardial ischemia].
AB  - Meldonium (Idrinol) was effective when parenterally administered in a dose of 1000 mg/day for 10-14 days as part of combination therapy in the early post-infarction period, which showed up as clinical improvement, a significant reduction in the frequency of angina attacks and in the need to use nitroglycerin, a decrease in the number of arrhythmia episodes, and its normalizing effect of HRV.

UI  - 24694530
TI  - Long-term benefit of early pre-reperfusion metoprolol administration in patients with acute myocardial infarction: results from the METOCARD-CNIC trial (Effect of Metoprolol in Cardioprotection During an Acute Myocardial Infarction).
AB  - In patients with anterior Killip class II STEMI undergoing pPCI, early IV metoprolol before reperfusion resulted in higher long-term LVEF, reduced incidence of severe LV systolic dysfunction and ICD indications, and fewer heart failure admissions. (Effect of METOprolol in CARDioproteCtioN During an Acute Myocardial InfarCtion. The METOCARD-CNIC Trial; NCT01311700).

UI  - 24687169
TI  - Effect of metformin on left ventricular function after acute myocardial infarction in patients without diabetes: the GIPS-III randomized clinical trial.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT01217307.

UI  - 24632965
TI  - Effect of statin treatment in patients with acute myocardial infarction and left ventricular systolic dysfunction according to the level of high-sensitivity C-reactive protein.
AB  - The effects of statins on the prognosis of patients with left ventricular (LV) systolic dysfunction remain controversial. The aim of this study was to assess the effect of statin treatment on clinical outcomes in acute myocardial infarction (AMI) patients with LV systolic dysfunction. A total of 5,119 AMI patients with LV ejection fraction less than 50% on the initial echocardiogram were analyzed in the Korean Acute Myocardial Infarction Registry. The study population was divided into 4 groups according to the level of high sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP) and statin treatment: low hs-CRP (hs-CRP  2.0 mg/L) and high hs-CRP (hs-CRP > 2 mg/L) with or without statin therapy. We evaluated the incidence of major adverse cardiac events (MACEs) including cardiac death, reinfarction, target lesion revascularization, and coronary artery bypass grafting during a 12-month period in each group. Statin therapy did not significantly prevent the MACEs in the low hs-CRP groups (with statin: 10.1% versus without statin: 12.0%, P = 0.249). In the high hs-CRP groups, however, the incidence of MACEs was significantly decreased with statin treatment (with statin: 11.3%, without statin: 20.8%, P < 0.001). These findings were consistently observed in all subgroups of the high-hs CRP group, including the subgroup with an LV ejection fraction less than 40%. In a multivariable logistic regression analysis of the high hs-CRP group, lack of statin therapy was a significant predictor of MACE incidence (odds ratio: 1.573, 95% confidence interval: 1.079-2.293, P = 0.018). The statin treatment was associated with better outcome in AMI and LV dysfunction patients with hs-CRP  2 mg/dL.

UI  - 24630789
TI  - Outcomes in patients with ST-segment elevation acute myocardial infarction treated with clopidogrel versus prasugrel (from the INFUSE-AMI trial).
AB  - Prasugrel is more potent than clopidogrel, but it is not known whether this translates into clinical benefit in patients undergoing primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) with bivalirudin for ST elevation myocardial infarction. In the Intracoronary Abciximab and Aspiration Thrombectomy in Patients With Large Anterior Myocardial Infarction trial, 452 patients with anterior STEMI undergoing primary PCI with bivalirudin were randomized to intralesional abciximab or placebo and to thrombus aspiration or no aspiration. Clopidogrel or prasugrel were administered at physician discretion. The primary end point was infarct size at 30days by cardiac magnetic resonance imaging. Clinical events at 30days and 1year were independently adjudicated. Propensity score was used to adjust for nonrandom allocation of the drugs. Prasugrel and clopidogrel were administered to 155 patients (34.3%) and 297 patients (65.7%), respectively. Patients receiving prasugrel were younger with higher left ventricular ejection fraction and greater use of drug-eluting stents. Prasugrel-treated patients had higher rates of procedural success (94% vs 89%, p= 0.03), Thrombolysis In Myocardial Infarction (TIMI) 3 flow (95% vs 90%, p= 0.06), and lower corrected TIMI frame counts (21  6 vs 23  11, p= 0.008). At 30days, infarct size was marginally lower in the prasugrel group (median [interquartile range]= 16.4% [6.5 to 20.0] vs 17.6% [8.1 to 25.7], p= 0.06). At 1year, prasugrel group had significantly fewer deaths (1.3% vs 8.3%, p= 0.004) and fewer episodes of severe heart failure (2.0% vs 7.7%, p= 0.02). These findings persisted after propensity score adjustment. There were no significant differences in major bleeding. Stent thrombosis was 0% versus 2.5%, respectively, p= 0.054. We conclude that prasugrel was associated with improved efficacy and similar safety compared with clopidogrel in patients undergoing primary PCI with bivalirudin.

UI  - 24561113
TI  - Beta-blocker use in ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction in the reperfusion era (GRACE).
AB  - Early beta-blocker use is common in patients presenting with ST-elevation myocardial infarction, with oral administration being the most prevalent. Oral beta-blockers were associated with a decrease in the risk of cardiogenic shock, ventricular arrhythmias, and acute heart failure. However, the early receipt of any form of beta-blockers was associated with an increase in hospital mortality.

UI  - 24560324
TI  - Patterns and predictors of intensive statin therapy among patients with diabetes mellitus after acute myocardial infarction.
AB  - Intensive statin therapy is a central component of secondary prevention after acute myocardial infarction (AMI), particularly among high-risk patients, such as those with diabetes mellitus (DM). However, the frequency and predictors of intensive statin therapy use after AMI among patients with DM have not been described. We examined patterns of intensive statin therapy use (defined as a statin with expected low-density lipoprotein cholesterol lowering of >50%) at discharge among patients with AMI with known DM enrolled in a 24-site US registry. Predictors of intensive statin therapy use were evaluated using multivariable hierarchical Poisson regression models. Among 1,300 patients with DM after AMI, 22% were prescribed intensive statin therapy at hospital discharge. In multivariable models, ST-elevation AMI (risk ratio [RR] 1.48, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.29 to 1.70), insurance for medications (RR 1.28, 95% CI 1.00 to 1.63), and higher low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels (RR 1.05 per 1mg/dl, 95% CI 1.02 to 1.07) were independent predictors of intensive statin therapy, whereas higher Global Registry of Acute Coronary Events scores were associated with lower rates of intensive statin therapy (RR 0.94 per 10 points, 95% CI 0.91 to 0.98). In conclusion, only 1 in 5 patients with DM was prescribed intensive statin therapy at discharge after an AMI. Predictors of intensive statin therapy use suggest important opportunities to improve quality of care in this patient population.

UI  - 24553389
TI  - High-potency statin and ezetimibe use and mortality in survivors of an acute myocardial infarction: a population-based study.
AB  - Patients switched to a high-potency statin had a significantly reduced mortality compared with simvastatin monotherapy. There was no observed mortality benefit in the ezetimibe group.

UI  - 24496318
TI  - Patterns of statin initiation, intensification, and maximization among patients hospitalized with an acute myocardial infarction.
AB  - In a large, multicenter acute myocardial infarction cohort, statin therapy was begun in nearly 90% of patients during hospitalization, with no variability across sites; however, rates of statin intensification and maximization were low and varied substantially across hospitals. Given that more intense statin therapy is associated with better outcomes, changing the existing performance measures to include the intensity of statin therapy may improve care.

UI  - 24463924
TI  - Effect of direct renin inhibitor on left ventricular remodeling in patients with primary acute myocardial infarction.
AB  - Some patients with acute myocardial infarction (AMI) have a poor prognosis due to left ventricular remodeling (LVR), resulting in the recurrence of congestive heart failure even when therapy with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs) or angiotensin II type 1 receptor blockers (ARBs) has been initiated. We investigated the effect of early administration of the direct renin inhibitor (DRI) aliskiren in combination with an ACEI or an ARB on LVR using cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) imaging in patients with AMI.Twenty-one consecutive patients were treated with an ACEI or an ARB (non-DRI group), and another 21 consecutive patients received aliskiren 150 mg/day combined with an ACEI or an ARB (DRI group). CMR imaging was performed 7 days after AMI and 10 months later.CMR imaging revealed no significant changes in LV end-systolic volume, LV end-diastolic volume, or LV ejection fraction between the patients with and without DRI aliskiren. In the DRI group, plasma renin activity was significantly lower in both the acute and chronic phases; however, aldosterone levels were significantly lower in the acute but not the chronic phase.A low dose of aliskiren may be insufficient to maintain suppression of aldosterone under current standard therapies with an ACEI or an ARB and -blocker in patients with primary AMI, and results in no attenuation of LVR.

UI  - 24437167
TI  - [Autonomous pharmacodynamics of organic nitrates in patients with unstable angina].
AB  - The pharmacological test with the use of high-resolution rhythmocardiography for the analysis of cardiac rhythm variability associated with peripheral vegetative regulation of the synoatrial node was applied to study effects of a single dose of organic nitrates (nitroglycerin and mononitrate isosorbide) in 41 patients with unstable angina. Rhythmocardiograms were obtained before and after a morning sublingual dose of nitrates preceding intake of basal drugs. The results suggest negative action of nitrates on peripheral vegetative regulation of pacemaker activity of the synoatrial node.

UI  - 24332142
TI  - Untangling the relationship between medication adherence and post-myocardial infarction outcomes: medication adherence and clinical outcomes.
AB  - Achieving high levels of adherence to each and all guideline-recommended post-MI secondary prevention medication is associated with improved event-free survival. Lower levels of adherence appear less protective.

UI  - 24332140
TI  - Trends in outcomes among older patients with non-ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction.
AB  - Between 2003 and 2006, there was a significant reduction in inhospital mortality that corresponded to an increase in the use of evidence-based NSTEMI care. Nevertheless, long-term outcomes have not changed over time, suggesting a need for improved care transition and longitudinal secondary prevention.

UI  - 24330904
TI  - Effects of 1-year treatment with highly purified omega-3 fatty acids on depression after myocardial infarction: results from the OMEGA trial.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT00251134.

UI  - 24270505
TI  - Effect of  blockers on mortality after myocardial infarction in adults with COPD: population based cohort study of UK electronic healthcare records.
AB  - NCT01335672.

UI  - 24268209
TI  - Design and methods of European Ambulance Acute Coronary Syndrome Angiography Trial (EUROMAX): an international randomized open-label ambulance trial of bivalirudin versus standard-of-care anticoagulation in patients with acute ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction transferred for primary percutaneous coronary intervention.
AB  - The EUROMAX trial will test whether bivalirudin started in the ambulance and continued for 4 hours after primary PCI improves clinical outcomes compared with guideline-recommended standard-of-care heparin-based regimens, and will also provide information on the combination of bivalirudin with prasugrel or ticagrelor.

UI  - 24261227
TI  - [Efficacy of adaptol and the possibility of its differential use in patients with anxiety disorders after myocardial infarction].
AB  - Adaptol proved to be more effective in patients with baseline hypersympathicotonic and normal autonomic responsiveness, which permits the drug to be differentially used in relation to the baseline type of autonomic responsiveness.

UI  - 24239100
TI  - Comparative assessment of angiotensin II type 1 receptor blockers in the treatment of acute myocardial infarction: surmountable vs. insurmountable antagonist.
AB  - In our study, insurmountable ARBs were more effective on long-term clinical outcomes than surmountable ARBs in patients with AMI.

UI  - 24225306
TI  - Echolucency of carotid plaque is useful for assessment of residual cardiovascular risk in patients with chronic coronary artery disease who achieve LDL-C goals on statin therapy.
AB  - Measurement of echolucency of the carotid artery was useful for assessment of residual coronary risk in CAD patients after LDL-C goal attainment on statin treatment.

UI  - 24221839
TI  - Association between perceived life chaos and medication adherence in a postmyocardial infarction population.
AB  - URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT000901277.

UI  - 24193548
TI  - Discontinuation of secondary prevention medication after myocardial infarction - the role of general practitioners and patients.
AB  - The consistent use of evidence-based pharmacotherapy 6 and 12 months after myocardial infarction was adequate. Three out of four patients were still on recommended SP medication after 1 year of follow-up. Two-thirds of medication discontinuations were initiated by GPs, predominantly because of side effects.

UI  - 24183564
TI  - Third-generation zotarolimus-eluting and everolimus-eluting stents in all-comer patients requiring a percutaneous coronary intervention (DUTCH PEERS): a randomised, single-blind, multicentre, non-inferiority trial.
AB  - Boston Scientific, Medtronic.

UI  - 24176444
TI  - Initiation of statin therapy after acute myocardial infarction is not associated with worsening depressive symptoms: insights from the Prospective Registry Evaluating Outcomes After Myocardial Infarctions: Events and Recovery (PREMIER) and Translational Research Investigating Underlying Disparities in Acute Myocardial Infarction Patients' Health Status (TRIUMPH) registries.
AB  - Initiation of statins after AMI was not associated with worsening depression.

UI  - 24176067
TI  - Usefulness of serum unbound free fatty acid levels to predict death early in patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (from the Thrombolysis In Myocardial Infarction [TIMI] II trial).
AB  - Circulating total free fatty acid (FFA) levels are elevated early in myocardial infarction (MI) and have been associated with an increase in mortality. We investigated the association of serum unbound FFA (FFAu) levels with mortality in patients presenting with ST-segment elevation MI in the Thrombolysis In Myocardial Infarction II trial. The Thrombolysis In Myocardial Infarction II trial enrolled patients within 4 hours of chest pain onset. The patients were treated with a recombinant tissue plasminogen activator within 1 hour of enrollment. The FFAu concentration was evaluated in serum samples from 1,834 patients obtained at baseline, before therapy. The FFAu level was an independent risk factor for death as early as at 1 day of hospitalization and continued to be an independent risk factor for the >3.8 years of follow-up. When adjusted for other cardiovascular risk factors, the FFAu levels in the fourth versus the first quartile remained an independent risk factor for death from MI (hazard ratio 5.0, 95% confidence interval 1.9 to 13.0), all cardiac death (hazard ratio 2.4, 95% confidence interval 1.3 to 4.4), and all-cause death (hazard ratio 1.9, 95% confidence interval 1.2 to 3.1). Women were twice as likely to be in the upper 2 FFAu quartiles and had approximately twice the rate of death as men. In conclusion, FFAu elevation is 1 of the earliest molecular biomarkers of mortality in patients with ST-segment elevation MI and was independent of other risk factors known to affect the outcomes after ST-segment elevation MI.

UI  - 24172260
TI  - Levosimendan may improve weaning outcomes in venoarterial ECMO patients.
AB  - Venoarterial extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (VA-ECMO) provides temporary mechanical circulatory support in patients with refractory cardiogenic shock, allowing time for cardiac recovery. Levosimendan is a calcium sensitizer with inotropic and vasodilatory effects used in the treatment of severe heart failure. It does not increase myocardial oxygen consumption. Its maximum hemodynamic response is seen 24-48 h after stopping infusion, but its effects can persist for 7-9 d owing to active metabolites. We sought to investigate whether the use of levosimendan improves weaning outcomes in patients on VA-ECMO. Six consecutive patients with cardiogenic shock were placed on femorofemoral VA-ECMO support and received levosimendan 24 h before the planned weaning (group A). As control group (group B), we retrospectively reviewed the VA-ECMO implanted at our institution before the introduction of the levosimendan protocol. These patients received only traditional inotropes. The weaning rate was 83.33% in group A and 27.3% in group B. The survival rate was 66.66% and 36.4%, respectively. In group A, three of six patients (50%) required inotropic/vasopressor support after ECMO cessation, while in group B 11 of 11 patients (100%) required support. In our case series, pretreatment with levosimendan seems to facilitate weaning from VA-ECMO, reducing the need for high-dose inotropes.

UI  - 24171490
TI  - Bivalirudin started during emergency transport for primary PCI.
AB  - Bivalirudin, started during transport for primary PCI, improved 30-day clinical outcomes with a reduction in major bleeding but with an increase in acute stent thrombosis. (Funded by the Medicines Company; EUROMAX ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT01087723.).

UI  - 24169006
TI  - Target-attainment rates of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol using lipid-lowering drugs one year after acute myocardial infarction in sweden.
AB  - The objective of this prospective cohort study was to describe real-life use of lipid-lowering drugs and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) target-attainment rates 1 year after acute myocardial infarction (AMI). LDL-C was recorded at hospital admission for AMI and at follow-up at 2 and 12 months after AMI in 17,236 patients in the Swedish heart registry, SWEDEHEART, from 2004 through 2009. Lipid-lowering treatments were identified using the Swedish Prescribed Drug Register. More than 90% of patients received statins after AMI. Simvastatin 40 mg was used by 80% of patients at discharge and at 2 months and 68% at 1 year after AMI. Intensive statin therapy (LDL-C-lowering capacity >40%) was prescribed for 8.4%, 11.9%, and 12.2% at these time points, and combinations of statin/ezetimibe for 1.1%, 2.8%, and 5.0%, respectively. The LDL-C target of <2.5 mmol/L (97 mg/dl) was achieved in 74.5% of patients at 2 months and 72.3% at 12 months after AMI. Treatment was intensified for only 21.3% of patients with LDL-C above target at 2 months. In multivariate analysis, higher LDL-C levels at admission and at 2 months correlated to increased risk for under treatment at 12 months after AMI. In conclusion, statin treatment after AMI in Sweden has become standard, but titration to reach recommended LDL-C levels is still suboptimal. Strategies to further improve implementation of guidelines are needed.

UI  - 24161333
TI  - AMG 145, a monoclonal antibody against PCSK9, facilitates achievement of national cholesterol education program-adult treatment panel III low-density lipoprotein cholesterol goals among high-risk patients: an analysis from the LAPLACE-TIMI 57 trial (LDL-C assessment with PCSK9 monoclonal antibody inhibition combined with statin thErapy-thrombolysis in myocardial infarction 57).
AB  - PCSK9 inhibition with AMG 145 enables high-risk patients to achieve established lipid goals. If this therapy demonstrates efficacy for reducing cardiovascular events with a favorable safety profile in ongoing phase 3 trials, we believe it will have major public health implications.

UI  - 24148715
TI  - Response to prasugrel and levels of circulating reticulated platelets in patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction.
AB  - The proportion of circulating RPs strongly correlates with response to prasugrel in patients with STEMI treated with PCI. High levels of RPs are associated with increased platelet reactivity despite prasugrel treatment.

UI  - 24093851
TI  - Use of aldosterone antagonists at discharge after myocardial infarction: results from the National Cardiovascular Data Registry Acute Coronary Treatment and Intervention Outcomes Network (ACTION) Registry-Get with the Guidelines (GWTG).
AB  - Despite clinical outcome evidence and class I guideline recommendations, AldAs are underused in the United States, with only 1 in 7 eligible patients prescribed AldA at discharge after MI. This contrasts with high use of other evidence-based post-MI medications and identifies a specific gap in translation of evidence into clinical practice.

UI  - 24084626
TI  - Intralesional abciximab and thrombus aspiration in patients with large anterior myocardial infarction: one-year results from the INFUSE-AMI trial.
AB  - http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00976521.

UI  - 24084625
TI  - Leukocyte count is a modulating factor for the mortality benefit of bivalirudin in ST-segment-elevation acute myocardial infarction: the HORIZONS-AMI trial.
AB  - http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00433966.

UI  - 24050826
TI  - Non-therapeutic anti-Xa levels in medical patients receiving anticoagulant therapy with enoxaparin.
AB  - Almost one third of patients receiving enoxaparin had anti-Xa levels out of the therapeutic range. We need more studies to determine the clinical relevance of these findings.

UI  - 24048773
TI  - N-Acetylcysteine effects on transforming growth factor- and tumor necrosis factor- serum levels as pro-fibrotic and inflammatory biomarkers in patients following ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction.
AB  - Receiving NAC could prevent TGF- levels from increasing after 72h as compared with not receiving NAC. As TGF- had strong correlations with the ejection fraction, its antagonism seems to be important in the prevention of remodeling.

UI  - 24030410
TI  - Full prescription coverage versus usual prescription coverage after coronary artery bypass graft surgery: analysis from the post-myocardial infarction free Rx event and economic evaluation (FREEE) randomized trial.
AB  - Eliminating drug copayments after MI provides consistent benefits to patients treated with or without CABG, leading to increased medication adherence, trends toward improved clinical outcomes, and reduced patient out-of-pocket expenses.

UI  - 24019397
TI  - CYP2C19 poor metabolizer is associated with clinical outcome of clopidogrel therapy in acute myocardial infarction but not stable angina.
AB  - URL: clinicaltrials.gov. Identifier: NCTO1239914.

UI  - 24012033
TI  - A direct comparison of intravenous enoxaparin with unfractionated heparin in primary percutaneous coronary intervention (from the ATOLL trial).
AB  - Intravenous enoxaparin did not reduce significantly the primary end point (p = 0.06) compared with unfractionated heparin (UFH) in the randomized Acute Myocardial Infarction Treated with primary angioplasty and intravenous enoxaparin Or unfractionated heparin to Lower ischemic and bleeding events at short- and Long-term follow-up (ATOLL) trial. We present the results of the prespecified per-protocol analysis excluding patients who did not receive the treatment allocated by randomization or received both enoxaparin and UFH. We evaluated all-cause mortality, complication of myocardial infarction, procedural failure, or major bleeding (primary end point) and all-cause mortality, recurrent acute coronary syndrome, or urgent revascularization (main secondary end point). Baseline and procedural characteristics were well balanced between the 2 treatment groups. Of 910 randomized patients, 795 patients (87.4%) were treated according to the protocol with consistent anticoagulation using intravenous enoxaparin (n = 400) or UFH (n = 395). Enoxaparin reduced significantly the rates of the primary end point (relative risk [RR] 0.76, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.62 to 0.94, p = 0.012) and the main secondary end point (RR 0.37, 95% CI 0.22 to 0.63, p <0.0001). There was less major bleeding with enoxaparin (RR 0.46, 95% CI 0.21 to 1.01, p = 0.050) contributing to the significant improvement of the net clinical benefit (RR 0.46, 95% CI 0.3 to 0.74, p = 0.0002). All-cause mortality was also reduced with enoxaparin (RR 0.36, 95% CI 0.18 to 0.74, p = 0.003). In conclusion, in the per-protocol analysis of the ATOLL trial, pertinent to >87% of the study population, enoxaparin was superior to UFH in reducing ischemic end points and mortality.

UI  - 24008977
TI  - Rationale and design of the TETHYS trial: the effects of methotrexate therapy on myocardial infarction with ST-segment elevation.
AB  - This trial may be the first to demonstrate the anti-inflammatory and anti-ischemic effects of methotrexate in patients with acute myocardial infarction.

UI  - 24002794
TI  - Effect of early metoprolol on infarct size in ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction patients undergoing primary percutaneous coronary intervention: the Effect of Metoprolol in Cardioprotection During an Acute Myocardial Infarction (METOCARD-CNIC) trial.
AB  - http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT01311700. EUDRACT number: 2010-019939-35.

UI  - 23992602
TI  - Alogliptin after acute coronary syndrome in patients with type 2 diabetes.
AB  - Among patients with type 2 diabetes who had had a recent acute coronary syndrome, the rates of major adverse cardiovascular events were not increased with the DPP-4 inhibitor alogliptin as compared with placebo. (Funded by Takeda Development Center Americas; EXAMINE ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00968708.).

UI  - 23991622
TI  - Pretreatment with prasugrel in non-ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndromes.
AB  - Among patients with NSTE acute coronary syndromes who were scheduled to undergo catheterization, pretreatment with prasugrel did not reduce the rate of major ischemic events up to 30 days but increased the rate of major bleeding complications. (Funded by Daiichi Sankyo and Eli Lilly; ACCOAST ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT01015287.).

UI  - 23985963
TI  - Thromboxane A(2) generation, in the absence of platelet COX-1 activity, in patients with and without atherothrombotic myocardial infarction.
AB  - Differences in TxA2 production, in the absence of platelet COX-1 activity, between those with vs. without atherothrombotic MI were not observed when TxA2 generation was assessed on 11-dehydro-TxB2 production alone (polyclonal ELISA or LC-MS/MS), but differences were observed when TxA2 generation was assessed using 11-dehydro-TxB2 plus 11-dehydro-2,3-dinor-TxB2 (monoclonal ELISA). These findings highlight important differences between different commercially available assays for TxA2 generation and suggest that 11-dehydro-2,3-dinor-TxB2 may be critical to the biology of atherothrombosis.

UI  - 23981616
TI  - Randomized comparison of intracoronary tirofiban versus urokinase as an adjunct to primary percutaneous coronary intervention in patients with acute ST-elevation myocardial infarction: results of the ICTUS-AMI trial.
AB  - An intracoronary bolus of urokinase as an adjunct to primary PCI for acute STEMI is not equally effective to an intracoronary bolus of tirofiban with respect to improvement in myocardial reperfusion assessed by STR. This may be caused by less reduction in coronary circulatory platelet activation and inflammation.

UI  - 23978364
TI  - Implementation of contemporary oral antiplatelet treatment guidelines in patients with acute coronary syndrome undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention: a report from the GReek AntiPlatelet rEgistry (GRAPE).
AB  - In GRAPE, adherence with the recently released guidelines on oral antiplatelet therapy was satisfactory. Clopidogrel was most commonly used as a less preferable selection, while prasugrel or ticagrelor selection was mostly appropriate. Certain factors may predict initial and at discharge guideline implementation. Clinical Trial Registration-clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT01774955 http://clinicaltrials.gov/.

UI  - 23973868
TI  - Prognostic relevance of papillary muscle infarction in reperfused infarction as visualized by cardiovascular magnetic resonance.
AB  - The presence of PapMI is associated with decreased myocardial salvage, larger infarcts, and more pronounced reperfusion injury with subsequent significantly increased major adverse cardiac event rates. Consequently, our data underscore the importance of PapMI as a marker of poor outcome in patients with ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction.

UI  - 23973701
TI  - Beyond medication prescription as performance measures: optimal secondary prevention medication dosing after acute myocardial infarction.
AB  - Although nearly all patients after an AMI are discharged on appropriate secondary prevention medications, dose increases occur infrequently, and most patients are prescribed doses below those with proven efficacy in clinical trials. Integration of dose intensity into performance measures might help improve the use of optimal medical therapy after AMI.

UI  - 23953385
TI  - Prasugrel versus clopidogrel for patients with unstable angina or non-ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction with or without angiography: a secondary, prespecified analysis of the TRILOGY ACS trial.
AB  - Daiichi Sankyo, Eli Lilly.

UI  - 23952999
TI  - [LINKOR: results of observational program in patients with myocardial infarction].
AB  - The results of Assessment Program effective treatment of patients with myocardiaL INfarction drug ProCORalan (ivabradine) in outpatient practice, conducted in 53 cities of the Russian Federation, 333 doctors. Included 1226 patients (822 men and 404 women, average age 60,1+/-9,3 years). Despite treatment, before inclusion in the patients maintained an average 8,17+/-8,60 (mediana 6) angina attacks per week, elevated blood pressure (141,8+/-20,3/86,2+/-11,6 mm Hg) and heart rate (84,5 +/-10,4 beats / min). Adding to ivabradine treatment for 16 weeks resulted in significant (p<0.00001) reduction in heart rate (up to 63,1+/-7,5 beats / min), the number of angina attacks per week (from 8.17 to 1.27) and need for nitroglycerin (from 7.69 to 0.89 tablets per week). Decreased the number of patients that called ambulance assistance (from 35.6 to 1.5%), and hospitalization (from 15.4 to 1.2%). There was a significant (p<0.00001) increase in evaluating the effectiveness of treatment (from 5,4+/-1,8 to 8,9 +/-1,3 points), reducing the risk stratification of patients (6,1+/-1,5 to 4 3+/-2,0 points), increased stability evaluation of state (from 5,6+/-1,9 to 3,7+/-2,2 points) and improved assessment of prognosis (from 5,7+/-2,0 to 3,6 +/-1,9 points). Expressed significantly positive effects observed after 1 month of therapy, after the effect became more pronounced. Significantly improved quality of life estimated by Seattle Angina Questionnaire and Minnesota Living with Heart Failure. The maximum recommended dose ivabradine of 15mg/day were given 50% of the patients, the dose of 10 mg/day - 28%. Adverse effects were reported in 3.3% of patients, of which, according to doctors associated with taking the drug - 0.82%. During follow up, 4 patients died. Thus, the addition of ivabradine to -blocker therapy, persons with a history of myocardial infarction and angina experiencing elevated heart rate, are the tactics of a rational and safe therapy.

UI  - 23917585
TI  - Correlation between D-dimer levels and coronary artery reperfusion in acute myocardial infarction patients after thrombolytic treatment.
AB  - The correlation between plasma D-dimer level and reperfusion has not been clarified yet in thrombolytic therapy applied for acute myocardial infarction patients. The aim of this study was to investigate whether there is a relationship between reperfusion and fibrinolytic activity in acute myocardial infarction patients treated with thrombolytic therapy. Fibrinolytic activity was reflected by plasma D-dimer levels. During the study period, 186 patients were initially analyzed. But 18 of these patients were excluded from the study because they were not suitable for study criteria. Blood was collected from 168 acute myocardial infarction patients within first 6 h. Intravenous tissue plasminogen activator (100 mg) or streptokinase (1,500,000 U) was applied to patients. Mean age of the patients was 58 (28-86) years and majority was men (86%). The number of anterior, inferior, and lateral myocardial infarction patients were 76 (45.2%), 85 (50.6%), and seven (4.2%), respectively. The mean time from symptom onset to thrombolytic application was 134 (95-212) min. Reperfusion occurred in 115 (68.5%) patients. D-dimer levels were markedly high after thrombolytic therapy versus before (155 mg/dl, 362 mg/dl, P<0.005). We compared the D-dimer values before and after thrombolytic therapy between reperfused group and the nonreperfused group (189-409 mg/l in reperfused group, P=0.086; 82-258 mg/l in the nonreperfused group, P=0.173). In conclusion, in this study, D-dimer levels were elevated markedly in patients with ST elevation myocardial infarction after thrombolytic therapy, but no significant difference was seen in D-dimer levels between the reperfused and nonreperfused groups.

UI  - 23914432
TI  - From the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (NHLBI): EDTA chelation therapy modestly reduces cardiovascular events.
AB  - 

UI  - 23910581
TI  - Rationale and design of a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial to evaluate the efficacy of B-type natriuretic peptide for the preservation of left ventricular function after anterior myocardial infarction.
AB  - This will be the first randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial to assess the clinical efficacy of nesiritide in human ST-segment-elevation anterior AMI.

UI  - 23895801
TI  - Rationale and design of the Cardiovascular Inflammation Reduction Trial: a test of the inflammatory hypothesis of atherothrombosis.
AB  - CIRT aims to test the inflammatory hypothesis of atherothrombosis in patients with prior MI and either type 2 diabetes or metabolic syndrome, conditions associated with persistent inflammation. If low-dose methotrexate reduces cardiovascular events, CIRT would provide a novel therapeutic approach for the secondary prevention of heart attack, stroke, and cardiovascular death.

UI  - 23884353
TI  - AMG145, a monoclonal antibody against proprotein convertase subtilisin kexin type 9, significantly reduces lipoprotein(a) in hypercholesterolemic patients receiving statin therapy: an analysis from the LDL-C Assessment with Proprotein Convertase Subtilisin Kexin Type 9 Monoclonal Antibody Inhibition Combined with Statin Therapy (LAPLACE)-Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction (TIMI) 57 trial.
AB  - AMG145 significantly reduces Lp(a), by up to 32%, among subjects with hypercholesterolemia receiving statin therapy, offering an additional, complementary benefit beyond robust low-density lipoprotein cholesterol reduction with regard to a patient's atherogenic lipid profile.

UI  - 23871340
TI  - Ticagrelor or prasugrel for pre-hospital protocols in STEMI?
AB  - 

UI  - 23850911
TI  - Intracoronary versus intravenous abciximab bolus in patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction: 1-year results of the randomized AIDA STEMI trial.
AB  - 

UI  - 23806863
TI  - [Prehospital treatment with bivalirudin in acute myocardial infarction referred for primary angioplasty. About 152 consecutive patients study].
AB  - The use of bivalirudin in the prehospital setting for primary angioplasty seems to be effective and safe about ischemic and bleeding complications during the inhospital outcome.

UI  - 23778412
TI  - Effects of ACE inhibition on endothelial progenitor cell mobilization and prognosis after acute myocardial infarction in type 2 diabetic patients.
AB  - The use of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors represents a novel approach for improving cardiovascular repair after acute myocardial infarction in T2DM patients.

UI  - 23747780
TI  - Double versus standard loading dose of ticagrelor: onset of antiplatelet action in patients with STEMI undergoing primary PCI.
AB  - 

UI  - 23714773
TI  - Protection by atorvastatin pretreatment in patients undergoing primary percutaneous coronary intervention is associated with the lower levels of oxygen free radicals.
AB  - Atorvastatin can reduce oxygen free radicals developed in reperfusion, imposing protective effect on the myocardial cell during ischemic reperfusion injury.

UI  - 23706327
TI  - Heart rate is a prognostic risk factor for myocardial infarction: a post hoc analysis in the PERFORM (Prevention of cerebrovascular and cardiovascular Events of ischemic origin with teRutroban in patients with a history oF ischemic strOke or tRansient ischeMic attack) study population.
AB  - Elevated heart rate 70 bpm places patients with a noncardioembolic cerebral ischemic event at increased risk for MI.

UI  - 23700090
TI  - EPC mobilization after erythropoietin treatment in acute ST-elevation myocardial infarction: the REVEAL EPC substudy.
AB  - Erythropoietin (EPO) was hypothesized to mitigate reperfusion injury, in part via mobilization of endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs). The REVEAL trial found no reduction in infarct size with a single dose of EPO (60,000 U) in patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction. In a substudy, we aimed to determine the feasibility of cryopreserving and centrally analyzing EPC levels to assess the relationship between EPC numbers, EPO administration, and infarct size. As a prespecified substudy, mononuclear cells were locally cryopreserved before as well as 24 and 48-72 h after primary percutaneous coronary intervention. EPC samples were collected in 163 of 222 enrolled patients. At least one sample was obtained from 125 patients, and all three time points were available in 83 patients. There were no significant differences in the absolute EPC numbers over time or between EPO- and placebo-treated patients; however, there was a trend toward a greater increase in EPC levels from 24 to 48-72 h postintervention in patients receiving 30,000 U of EPO (P = 0.099 for CD133(+) cells, 0.049 for CD34(+) cells, 0.099 for ALDH(br) cells). EPC numbers at baseline were inversely related to infarct size (P = 0.03 for CD133(+) cells, 0.006 for CD34(+) cells). Local whole cell cryopreservation and central EPC analysis in the context of a multicenter randomized trial is feasible but challenging. High-dose (30,000 U) EPO may mobilize EPCs at 48-72 h, and baseline EPC levels may be inversely associated with infarct size.

UI  - 23692139
TI  - Abciximab bolus with optional infusion in intervention for ST-elevation myocardial infarction.
AB  - In primary percutaneous coronary intervention with a loading dose of 600 mg clopidogrel, it seems safe and cost-saving to give abciximab bolus with optional infusion.

UI  - 23683738
TI  - Open-label, randomized, placebo-controlled evaluation of intracoronary adenosine or nitroprusside after thrombus aspiration during primary percutaneous coronary intervention for the prevention of microvascular obstruction in acute myocardial infarction: the REOPEN-AMI study (Intracoronary Nitroprusside Versus Adenosine in Acute Myocardial Infarction).
AB  - In STEMI patients treated by PCI and TA, the additional intracoronary administration of adenosine, but not that of nitroprusside, results in a significant improvement of MVO, as assessed by STR.

UI  - 23674307
TI  - Diabetes mellitus and cardiovascular events in older patients with myocardial infarction prescribed intensive-dose and moderate-dose statins.
AB  - In older patients with myocardial infarction, we found intensive-dose statin therapy to be effective in reducing repeat hospitalization for acute coronary syndrome. The rate of new-onset diabetes mellitus at long term was not significantly different between intensive-dose and moderate-dose statins.

UI  - 23643422
TI  - Newly identified synergy between clopidogrel and calcium-channel blockers for blood pressure regulation possibly involves CYP2C19 rs4244285.
AB  - 

UI  - 23634911
TI  - The efficacy and safety of pharmacoinvasive therapy with prourokinase for acute ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction patients with expected long percutaneous coronary intervention-related delay.
AB  - A strategy of emergent PCI preceded by fibrinolysis with prouk results in a better myocardial perfusion in infarct-related artery compared with primary PCI alone in patients with STEMI and long PCI-related delay.

UI  - 23574969
TI  - Cardiovascular effects of tumour necrosis factor  antagonism in patients with acute myocardial infarction: a first in human study.
AB  - Following acute myocardial infarction, etanercept reduces systemic inflammation but increases platelet activation without affecting peripheral vasomotor or fibrinolytic function. We conclude that TNF- antagonism is unlikely to be a beneficial therapeutic strategy in patients with acute myocardial infarction.

UI  - 23549644
TI  - Stroke after primary percutaneous coronary intervention in patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction: timing, characteristics, and clinical outcomes.
AB  - URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00091637.

UI  - 23541975
TI  - Nuisance bleeding with prolonged dual antiplatelet therapy after acute myocardial infarction and its impact on health status.
AB  - Nuisance bleeding is common in the year after AMI, associated with ongoing use of DAPT, and independently associated with worse QOL. Improved selection of patients for prolonged DAPT may help minimize the incidence and adverse consequences of nuisance bleeding.

UI  - 23529919
TI  - Effect of evidence-based drug therapy on long-term outcomes in patients discharged after myocardial infarction: a nested casecontrol study in Italy.
AB  - These findings of the beneficial effects of EB polytherapy on mortality and morbidity in a population-based setting using a nested casecontrol approach strengthen existing evidence from observational studies.

UI  - 23525425
TI  - Dynamic TIMI risk score for STEMI.
AB  - This score is a prospectively derived, validated means of estimating 1-year mortality of STEMI at hospital discharge and can serve as a clinically useful tool. By incorporating events during the index hospitalization, it can better define risk and help to guide treatment decisions.

UI  - 23506972
TI  - A single-center prospective randomized controlled trial evaluating the safety and efficacy of IntraCoronary Erythropoietin delivery BEfore Reperfusion: gauging infarct size in patients with acute ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction. Study design and rationale of the 'ICEBERG Trial'.
AB  - This is the first study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of intracoronary darbepoetin- treatment in patients with acute MI.

UI  - 23500262
TI  - Rivaroxaban in patients stabilized after a ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction: results from the ATLAS ACS-2-TIMI-51 trial (Anti-Xa Therapy to Lower Cardiovascular Events in Addition to Standard Therapy in Subjects with Acute Coronary Syndrome-Thrombolysis In Myocardial Infarction-51).
AB  - In patients with a recent STEMI, rivaroxaban reduced cardiovascular events. This benefit emerged early and persisted during continued treatment with background antiplatelet therapies. Rivaroxaban compared with placebo increased the rate of major bleeding, but there was no significant increase in fatal bleeding. (An Efficacy and Safety Study for Rivaroxaban in Patients With Acute Coronary Syndrome; NCT00809965).

UI  - 23494544
TI  - Cholesterol levels and the association of statins with in-hospital mortality of myocardial infarction patients insights from a Chilean registry of myocardial infarction.
AB  - In the Chilean registry of MI patients, low HDL-C was the main lipid disturbance. Very early statin use after MI appears to be associated with a borderline significant and independent reduction of in-hospital mortality.

UI  - 23474908
TI  - Cost-effectiveness of ticagrelor versus clopidogrel for the prevention of atherothrombotic events in adult patients with acute coronary syndrome in Germany.
AB  - The aim of this health economic analysis was to compare the cost-effectiveness of ticagrelor versus clopidogrel within the German health care system. A two-part decision model was adapted to compare treatment with ticagrelor or clopidogrel in a low-dose acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) cohort (150mg) for all ACS patients and subtypes NSTEMI/IA and STEMI. A decision-tree approach was chosen for the first year after initial hospitalization based on trial observations from a subgroup of the PLATO study. Subsequent years were estimated by a Markov model. Following a macro-costing approach, costs were based on official tariffs and published literature. Extensive sensitivity analyses were performed to test the robustness of the model. One-year treatment with ticagrelor is associated with an estimated 0.1796 life-years gained (LYG) and gained 0.1570 quality-adjusted life-years (QALY), respectively, over the lifetime horizon. Overall average cost with ticagrelor is estimated to be EUR 11,815 vs. EUR 11,387 with generic clopidogrel over a lifetime horizon. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) was EUR 2,385 per LYG (EUR 2,728 per QALY). Comparing ticagrelor with Plavix() or the lowest priced generic clopidogrel, ICER ranges from dominant to EUR 3,118 per LYG (EUR 3,567 per QALY). These findings are robust under various additional sensitivity analyses. Hence, 12months of ACS treatment using ticagrelor/ASA instead of clopidogrel/ASA may offer a cost-effective therapeutic option, even when the generic price for clopidogrel is employed.

UI  - 23473396
TI  - Fibrinolysis or primary PCI in ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction.
AB  - Prehospital fibrinolysis with timely coronary angiography resulted in effective reperfusion in patients with early STEMI who could not undergo primary PCI within 1 hour after the first medical contact. However, fibrinolysis was associated with a slightly increased risk of intracranial bleeding. (Funded by Boehringer Ingelheim; ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00623623.).

UI  - 23469595
TI  - [Clinical efficacy evaluation of shuangshen tongguan capsule on acute myocardial infarction patients after direct percutaneous coronary intervention].
AB  - STC could improve the angina symptoms of AMI patients after direct PCI and elevate their heart functions. It has certain roles in improving microcirculation perfusion of myocardium, thus elevating patients' quality of life.

UI  - 23453459
TI  - Effects of interleukin-1 blockade with anakinra on adverse cardiac remodeling and heart failure after acute myocardial infarction [from the Virginia Commonwealth University-Anakinra Remodeling Trial (2) (VCU-ART2) pilot study].
AB  - A first pilot study of interleukin-1 blockade in ST-segment elevation acute myocardial infarction showed improved remodeling. In the present second pilot study, we enrolled 30 patients with clinically stable ST-segment elevation acute myocardial infarction randomized to anakinra, recombinant interleukin-1 receptor antagonist, 100 mg/day for 14 days or placebo in a double-blind fashion. The primary end point was the difference in the interval change in left ventricular (LV) end-systolic volume index between the 2 groups within 10 to 14 weeks. The secondary end points included changes in the LV end-diastolic volume index, LV ejection fraction, and C-reactive protein levels. No significant changes in end-systolic volume index, LV end-diastolic volume index, or LV ejection fraction were seen in the placebo group. Compared to placebo, treatment with anakinra led to no measurable differences in these parameters. Anakinra significantly blunted the increase in C-reactive protein between admission and 72 hours (+0.8 mg/dl, interquartile range-6.4 to+4.2, vs+21.1 mg/dl, interquartile range+8.7 to+36.6, p= 0.002), which correlated with the changes in LV end-diastolic volume index and LV end-systolic volume index at 10 to 14weeks (R=+0.83, p= 0.002, and R=+0.55, p= 0.077, respectively). One patient in the placebo group (7%) died. One patient (7%) in the anakinra group developed recurrent acute myocardial infarction. More patients were diagnosed with new-onset heartfailure in the placebo group (4, 27%) than in the anakinra group (1, 7%; p= 0.13). When the data were pooled with those from the first Virginia Commonwealth University-Anakinra Remodeling Trial (n= 40), this difference reached statistical significance (30% vs 5%, p= 0.035). In conclusion, interleukin-1 blockade with anakinra blunted the acute inflammatory response associated with ST-segment elevation acute myocardial infarction. Although it failed to show a statistically significant effect on LV end-systolic volume index, LV end-diastolic volume index, or LV ejection fraction in this cohort of clinically stable patients with near-normal LV dimensions and function, anakinra led to a numerically lower incidence of heart failure.

UI  - 23453104
TI  - Dynamic modeling of 90-day mortality in ST-elevation myocardial infarction patients undergoing primary percutaneous coronary intervention.
AB  - This novel approach in STEMI patients undergoing primary PCI demonstrates the dynamic nature of risk over time and may prove useful in understanding risk and in clinical decision making.

UI  - 23434008
TI  - Evolving pattern of on-prasugrel and on-ticagrelor platelet reactivity over time in ST elevation myocardial infarction patients.
AB  - 

UI  - 23414791
TI  - Prognostic value of cardiac troponin I measured with a highly sensitive assay in patients with stable coronary artery disease.
AB  - In patients with stable CAD, hs-TnI concentrations are associated with cardiovascular risk independently of conventional risk markers and hs-TnT. (Prevention of Events With Angiotensin-Converting Enzyme Inhibitor Therapy [PEACE]; NCT00000558).

UI  - 23410871
TI  - Administration of a loading dose of atorvastatin before percutaneous coronary intervention prevents inflammation and reduces myocardial injury in STEMI patients: a randomized clinical study.
AB  - Loading-dose atorvastatin therapy before emergency PCI reduced the inflammatory response and myocardial dysfunction in these STEMI patients by lowering hs-CRP, BNP, and MMP-9. Pre-PCI loading-dose atorvastatin treatment may help prevent inflammatory response and improve cardiac function in patients with acute coronary syndromes undergoing emergency PCI. ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT01334671.

UI  - 23403384
TI  - Randomized comparison of sirolimus-eluting and everolimus-eluting coronary stents in the treatment of total coronary occlusions: results from the chronic coronary occlusion treated by everolimus-eluting stent randomized trial.
AB  - URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00793221.

UI  - 23396280
TI  - Efficacy and safety of vorapaxar in patients with prior ischemic stroke.
AB  - In patients with prior ischemic stroke who receive standard antiplatelet therapy, adding vorapaxar increased the risk of intracranial hemorrhage without an improvement in major vascular events, including ischemic stroke. These findings add to the accumulating evidence establishing important risks with combination antiplatelet therapy in patients with prior stroke. Clinical Trial Registration Information- http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00526474.

UI  - 23390553
TI  - Effects of the endpoint adjudication process on the results of a randomised controlled trial: the ADVANCE trial.
AB  - The endpoint adjudication process had no discernible impact on the main findings in ADVANCE. These data highlight the need for careful consideration of the likely impact of an EPAC on the findings and conclusions of clinical trials prior to their establishment.

UI  - 23373620
TI  - Rationale and design of the on-treatment PLAtelet Reactivity-Guided Therapy Modification FOR ST-Segment Elevation Myocardial Infarction (PLATFORM) randomized trial.
AB  - U.S. National Institutes of Health (NIH) at www.clinicaltrials.gov. ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT01739556, and Current Controlled Trials at www.controlledtrials.com. International Standard Randomized Controlled Trial Number ISRCTN83081599.

UI  - 23369417
TI  - Bupropion for smoking cessation in patients hospitalized with acute myocardial infarction: a randomized, placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - Two-thirds of patients return to smoking by 12 months after AMI. Bupropion is well tolerated and seems to be safe to use in the immediate post-AMI period. However, bupropion is not effective for smoking cessation in patients post-AMI.

UI  - 23358446
TI  - Early routine angioplasty versus selective angioplasty after successful thrombolysis in acute ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction.
AB  - For patients presenting with an ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction who could not undergo timely primary PCI, thrombolysis followed by PCI within 12 h was a preferred reperfusion strategy and associated with a significant reduction in the recurrent ischemia during hospitalization.

UI  - 23288914
TI  - Levosimendan in acute heart failure following primary percutaneous coronary intervention-treated acute ST-elevation myocardial infarction. Results from the LEAF trial: a randomized, placebo-controlled study.
AB  - Levosimendan treatment improved contractility in post-ischaemic myocardium in patients with PCI-treated STEMI complicated by HF. The treatment was well tolerated, without any increase in arrhythmias.

UI  - 23277305
TI  - Reduction in first and recurrent cardiovascular events with ticagrelor compared with clopidogrel in the PLATO Study.
AB  - URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov/. Unique identifier: NCT00391872.

UI  - 23276475
TI  - Usefulness of heart rate to predict one-year mortality in patients with atrial fibrillation and acute myocardial infarction (from the OMEGA trial).
AB  - In the setting of acute myocardial infarction and sinus rhythm, the heart rate (HR) has been demonstrated to correlate closely with mortality. In patients presenting with acute myocardial infarction and atrial fibrillation (AF) on admission, however, the prognostic relevance of the HR has not yet been systematically addressed. A post hoc subgroup analysis of the data from the OMEGA trial was conducted to analyze whether the admission HR determines the 1-year mortality in patients presenting with AF in the setting of acute myocardial infarction. Of 3,851 patients enrolled in the OMEGA study, 211 (6%) presented with AF on admission. This subgroup was dichotomized according to the admission HR (cutoff 95 beats/min). Multiple regression analysis revealed that an admission HR of 95 beats/min independently determined the 1-year mortality in patients with AF (odds ratio 4.69, 95% confidence interval 1.47 to 15.01; p = 0.01). In conclusion, this is the first study demonstrating that a high HR (95 beats/min) on admission in patients with AF and acute myocardial infarction is associated with an almost fivefold mortality risk.

UI  - 24601161
TI  - Streptokinase versus alteplase: comparison of echocardiographic parameters and post-coronarography treatment--our experience.
AB  - In our study we have found a significant difference between streptokinase and alteplase in echocardiographic parameters and post-coronarography treatment when we took into consideration time from occurrence of chest pain to admission at Clinic. The best outcomes had patients who were treated with alteplase within 1.5 hour from occurrence of chest pain.

UI  - 23268418
TI  - [Effect of different doses of perindopril on myocardial energy expenditure in patients with heart failure following myocardial infarction].
AB  - A 12-month treatment with perindopril can suppress myocardial remodeling, improve left ventricular systolic function, and lower NT-proBNP and myocardial energy expenditure in patients with heart failure after myocardial infarction, and a higher dose can produce better results.

UI  - 23242974
TI  - Dabigatran attenuates thrombin generation to a lesser extent than warfarin: could this explain their differential effects on intracranial hemorrhage and myocardial infarction?
AB  - Compared with warfarin, dabigatran is associated with less intracranial hemorrhage, but an increased risk of myocardial infarction. To explore these phenomena, we compared their effects on thrombin generation. Thrombin generation in plasma from 10 patients taking therapeutic doses of warfarin (mean INR 2.6) was compared with that in plasma containing 250 ng/mL dabigatran. Although lag times were similar when thrombin generation was induced by recalcification or with a range of tissue factor concentrations, there was a greater reduction in peak thrombin generation and endogenous thrombin potential in plasma from warfarin-treated patients than in dabigatran-containing plasma. Similar results were obtained when thrombin generation was determined in plasma samples from 18 warfarin or 36 dabigatran treated patients entered into the RE-LY trial. Warfarin suppresses thrombin generation more efficiently than dabigatran. Greater suppression of normal hemostatic mechanisms in the brain and pathological thrombosis at sites of atherosclerotic plaque disruption may explain the higher rate of intracranial bleeding and lower rate of myocardial infarction with warfarin compared with dabigatran.

UI  - 23233747
TI  - Hospital case volume and appropriate prescriptions at hospital discharge after acute myocardial infarction: a nationwide assessment.
AB  - Analysis of QIs at discharge demonstrates the existence of a relationship between volume and appropriate prescriptions at discharge. Centers with the highest volume perform better on quality measures than centers with lower volumes. Temporal analysis over 3 consecutive years confirms this relationship and shows that it persists despite improvement in QIs between 2008 and 2010.

UI  - 23233418
TI  - Current antiplatelet therapy for Japanese patients with ST elevation acute myocardial infarction: J-AMI registry.
AB  - Antiplatelet therapy could prevent stent thrombosis, but may be associated with an increased risk of bleeding. Recent studies have revealed that bleeding complications are relatively frequent in patients with acute coronary syndromes. Our aim was to describe the current status of antiplatelet therapy for Japanese patients with acute myocardial infarction (AMI). The Japan AMI (J-AMI) registry is a prospective observational study that has enrolled 2,030 consecutive patients with stent thrombosis elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) admitted to 213 participating Japanese institutions. Current antiplatelet therapy for STEMI was assessed, and the occurrence of bleeding complications (based on GUSTO bleeding criteria) and stent thrombosis was also evaluated. Additionally, the clinical course after bleeding episodes was investigated. Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) was done in 97.2% of the patients, using a drug-eluting stent in 30% and a bare metal stent in 63% of PCI cases. A 300-mg loading dose of clopidogrel followed by its administration at 75 mg/day with aspirin was the current standard treatment for Japanese STEMI patients. In-hospital bleeding complications occurred in 1.9%, especially in patients with severe clinical features or a history of cerebrovascular disease. Moderate to severe bleeding complications were associated with 10 deaths. The in-hospital stent thrombosis (ST) rate was 1.47 %, and loading with clopidogrel prior to PCI was significantly less frequent in patients who developed ST (P < 0.001). In conclusion, the J-AMI registry revealed that severe symptoms of STEMI increased the risk of bleeding, while delay of clopidogrel loading was associated with ST. These findings suggest the need for treatment based on risk stratification to improve the balance between the beneficial and adverse effects of antiplatelet therapy in Japanese STEMI patients.

UI  - 23222003
TI  - Acute effects of intracoronary nitroglycerin and diltiazem in coronary slow flow phenomenon.
AB  - Both intracoronary diltiazem and nitroglycerin improve the TFCs in CSFP, and intracoronary diltiazem is superior to nitroglycerin in reducing TFCs in CSFP.

UI  - 23216658
TI  - Pretreatment platelet reactivity contribution to residual, post-treatment platelet reactivity in prasugrel-treated and ticagrelor-treated patients.
AB  - 

UI  - 23216571
TI  - Increased platelet aggregation and turnover in the acute phase of ST-elevation myocardial infarction.
AB  - Newly produced platelets are present in the acute phase of ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI). This may influence the antiplatelet effect of aspirin and clopidogrel administered prior to primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PPCI). The aims of this study were to investigate the antiplatelet effect of aspirin and clopidogrel and evaluate platelet turnover in the acute phase of STEMI compared to a stable phase 3 months later. In this observational follow-up study on 48 STEMI patients transferred for PPCI, loading doses of aspirin (300 mg) and clopidogrel (600 mg) were given orally in the ambulance. Blood samples were obtained immediately prior to PPCI, at 4 and 12 hours after administration of bolus doses and at follow-up after 3 months. Residual platelet aggregation was evaluated by Multiplate and VerifyNow aggregometry. Platelet turnover was evaluated by automated flow cytometry. In the acute phase of STEMI at the time of PPCI, residual platelet aggregation was significantly higher prior to PPCI compared to 4 and 12 hours after loading doses of aspirin and clopidogrel and 3 months later (p-values < 0.01). Furthermore, platelet turnover indices (mean platelet volume, immature platelet fraction, and immature platelet count) were increased in the acute phase of STEMI compared to 3 months after PPCI (p-values < 0.0001). In conclusion, residual platelet aggregation was high in the acute phase of STEMI despite dual antiplatelet treatment with aspirin and clopidogrel. Increased platelet turnover may partly explain the reduced efficacy of antiplatelet drugs in the acute phase of STEMI.

UI  - 23216528
TI  - Clopidogrel pretreatment of patients with ST-elevation myocardial infarction does not affect platelet reactivity after subsequent prasugrel-loading: platelet reactivity in an observational study.
AB  - Current guidelines recommend prasugrel or ticagrelor for patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) in ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI). Whereas available data support ticagrelor independent of pretreatment with clopidogrel, corresponding data for prasugrel are missing. Here, we investigated platelet reactivity after loading with prasugrel in clopidogrel-nave vs. clopidogrel-pretreated patients. Forty-seven consecutive patients with STEMI referred for primary PCI were enrolled. Use of GPIIb/IIIa inhibitors and known contraindications to prasugrel served as exclusion criteria. A total of 31 patients were already treated with a loading dose of clopidogrel 600 mg by the emergency medical system before admission, while 16 patients were P2Y12 antagonist nave. All patients received a loading dose of prasugrel 60 mg immediately before PCI. Adenosine diphosphate (ADP) induced platelet reactivity was determined by VerifyNow P2Y12 assay, by light transmission aggregometry (LTA) and by multiple electrode impedance aggregometry (MEIA; Multiplate analyser). No differences in platelet reactivity were observed at day 1 after PCI between the bolus-on-bolus treatment regimen and single prasugrel loading. Platelet reactivity was profoundly decreased to 10 [8-31] platelet reactivity unit (PRU; median [interquartile range]) in patients on clopidogrel + prasugrel vs. 9 [6-60] PRU in patients on prasugrel only (p = 0.916). Consistent results were obtained by LTA and MEIA. The proportion of patients reaching a MEIA associated with increased risk bleeding (<188 AU*min) was also similar between the two study groups. The level of platelet reactivity at day 1 after the 60 mg loading dose of prasugrel was independent of pretreatment with clopidogrel. Our results do not support withholding prasugrel in patients pretreated with clopidogrel who undergo PCI for STEMI.

UI  - 23212806
TI  - Urinary albumin concentration and long-term cardiovascular risk in acute coronary syndrome patients: a PROVE IT-TIMI 22 substudy.
AB  - Albuminuria has been shown to be associated with mortality and cardiovascular events, independent of traditional cardiovascular risk factors. This suggests that albuminuria may not just represent glomerular damage, but may be a marker of more diffuse endothelial dysfunction. We investigated the relationship between urinary albumin levels after an acute coronary syndrome and cardiovascular outcomes in statin treated subjects after acute coronary syndromes (ACS). Furthermore we assessed the effect of intensive statin treatment on albuminuria among patients in the PROVE IT-TIMI 22 trial, in which patients who had been hospitalized with ACS were randomized to pravastatin 40mg (standard therapy) or atorvastatin 80mg daily (intensive therapy). In univariate analyses, increasing urine albumin concentration was associated with increased risk of myocardial infarction, stroke, heart failure, and composite of death, myocardial infarction and stroke at 2 years. However, in a multivariable model containing traditional cardiovascular risk factors, albuminuria was not an independent predictor of the primary PROVE IT endpoint of death, myocardial infarction, unstable angina, revascularization and stroke, and was only an independent predictor of all-cause mortality at urinary albumin concentration >300mcg/ml. There was no significant change in urinary albumin concentration from enrolment to end of study in either the standard or intensive statin therapy groups, and no significant difference between treatment groups. Our results suggest that after an acute coronary syndrome in statin treated patients, microalbuminuria may reflect traditional cardiovascular risk factor burden and offer little prognostic information independent of those factors.

UI  - 23212802
TI  - Relationship between biomarkers and subsequent bleeding risk in ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction patients treated with paclitaxel-eluting stents: a HORIZONS-AMI substudy.
AB  - Major bleeding complications in STEMI patients result in significant mortality, morbidity and healthcare cost. Identification of patients at increased risk of bleeding is therefore essential. New biomarkers might be of incremental value to identify patients at risk for bleeding after primary PCI. A total of 26 biomarkers were measured at enrolment and analyzed at a central core laboratory in 464 STEMI patients in the HORIZONS-AMI trial. We investigated the relationship between tertiles of biomarker and in hospital non-CABG major bleeding. In hospital non-CABG major bleeding occurred in 3.7% of patients (n = 17). Increasing levels of cystatin C and D-dimer at admission were associated with higher rates of in hospital major bleeding. After adjustment for a risk score for bleeding, the odds ratio for in hospital major bleeding was 3.13 for cystatin C > 2.04 mg/L (p = 0.046) and 3.28 for ESAM > 34 ng/mL (p = 0.037). In this exploratory analysis of the HORIZONS-AMI biomarker substudy, high cystatin C and ESAM levels were associated with a higher risk of major bleeding. Larger studies are warranted to confirm the prognostic value of cystatin C and ESAM for major bleeding in STEMI patients.

UI  - 23182005
TI  - Effects of erythropoietin administration on iron status in patients with ST-elevation myocardial infarction who underwent successful percutaneous coronary intervention.
AB  - 

UI  - 23168284
TI  - Temporal trends in medical therapies for ST- and non-ST elevation myocardial infarction: (from the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities [ARIC] Surveillance Study).
AB  - Reports from large studies using administrative data sets and event registries have characterized recent temporal trends and treatment patterns for acute myocardial infarction. However, few were population based, and fewer examined differences in patterns of treatment for patients presenting with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) and non-ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI). The aim of this study was to examine 22-year trends in the use of 10 medical therapies and procedures by STEMI and NSTEMI classification in 30,986 definite or probable myocardial infarctions in the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities (ARIC) Community Surveillance Study from 1987 to 2008. Weighted multivariate Poisson regression, controlling for gender, race and center classification, age, and Predicting Risk of Death in Cardiac Disease Tool score, was used to estimate average annual percentage changes in medical therapy use. From 1987 to 2008, 6,106 hospitalized events (19.7%) were classified as STEMIs and 20,302 (65.5%) as NSTEMIs. Among patients with STEMIs, increases were noted in the use of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (6.4%, 95% confidence interval [CI] 5.7 to 7.2), antiplatelet agents other than aspirin (5.0%, 95% CI 4.0% to 6.0%), lipid-lowering medications (4.5%, 95% CI 3.1% to 5.8%),  blockers (2.7%, 95% CI 2.4% to 3.0%), aspirin (1.2%, 95% CI 1.0% to 1.3%), and heparin (0.8%, 95% CI 0.4% to 1.3%). Among patients with NSTEMIs, the use of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (5.5%, 95% CI 5.0% to 6.1%), antiplatelet agents other than aspirin (3.7%, 95% CI 2.7% to 4.7%), lipid-lowering medications (3.0%, 95% CI% 1.9 to 4.1%),  blockers (4.2%, 95% CI 3.9% to 4.4%), aspirin (1.9%, 95% CI 1.6% to 2.1%), and heparin (1.7%, 95% CI 1.3% to 2.1%) increased. Among patients with STEMIs, decreases in the use of thrombolytic agents (-7.2%, 95% CI -7.9% to -6.6%) and coronary artery bypass grafting (-2.4%, 95% CI -3.6% to -1.2%) were observed. Similar increases in percutaneous coronary intervention and decreases in the use of thrombolytic agents and coronary artery bypass grafting were noted among all patients. In conclusion, trends of increasing use of evidence-based therapies were found for patients with STEMIs and those with NSTEMIs over the past 22 years.

UI  - 23157808
TI  - Adherence to protocol and determinants in ST-elevation myocardial infarction.
AB  - 

UI  - 23144046
TI  - The relationship between glycaemic variability and cardiovascular complications in patients with acute myocardial infarction and type 2 diabetes: a report from the DIGAMI 2 trial.
AB  - The 1-year risk for death, reinfarction, or stroke did not relate to glycaemic variability in T2DM patients with AMI treated with insulin infusion.

UI  - 23137494
TI  - The study of LoSmapimod treatment on inflammation and InfarCtSizE (SOLSTICE): design and rationale.
AB  - The p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) is a nexus point in inflammation, sensing, and stimulating cytokine production and driving cell migration and death. In acute coronary syndromes, p38MAPK inhibition could stabilize ruptured atherosclerotic plaques, pacify active plaques, and improve microvascular function, thereby reducing infarct size and risk of subsequent cardiac events. The SOLSTICE trial is randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel group, multicenter phase 2a study of 535 patients that evaluates the safety and efficacy of losmapimod (GW856553), a potent oral p38MAPK inhibitor, vs placebo in patients with non-ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction expected to undergo an invasive strategy. The coprimary end points are reduction in high-sensitivity C-reactive protein at 12 weeks and reduction in infarct size as assessed by troponin area under the curve at 72 hours. A key secondary end point is 72-hour and 12-week B-type natriuretic peptide levels as a measure of cardiac remodeling and ventricular strain. The primary safety assessments are serious and nonserious adverse events, results of liver function testing, and major adverse cardiac events. Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (N = 117) and coronary flow reserve (N = 13) substudies will assess the effects of losmapimod on infarct size, myocardial function, and coronary vasoregulation. Information gained from the SOLSTICE trial will inform further testing of this agent in larger clinical trials.

UI  - 23131034
TI  - Circadian variation in patient characteristics and outcomes in ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction.
AB  - A morning peak in ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) has been described. The authors explored the relationship between variation of symptom onset, patient characteristics, and outcomes in two worldwide fibrinolytic trials. A total of 35 492 patients with STEMI were grouped into 8-h intervals by time of symptom onset: early (06:00 to 13:59h), late-day (14:00 to 21:59h), overnight (22:00 to 05:59h). The authors correlated timing with patient characteristics and outcomes (adjusted for thrombolysis in myocardial infarction [TIMI] risk score) first in InTIME II-TIMI 17 trial (N=15 031), and confirmed in the ExTRACT-TIMI 25 trial (N=20 461). Timing was similar in the derivation (early 49%, late-day 30%, and overnight 21%; p<.001) and validation set (48%, 31%, and 21%, respectively; p<.001). Some patient characteristics consistently varied with time of symptom onset. Patients in the early cohort were older with poorer renal function. The late-day group had more smokers with higher initial heart rate and systolic blood pressure. Those with overnight symptom onset had higher rates of obesity, prior myocardial infarction, and treatment delays. Prior use of aspirin and beta-blockers was also highest in the overnight group. Relative to the early cohort, adjusted mortality was higher with late-day onset (derivation odds ratio [OR]: 1.19, p=.04; validation OR: 1.18, p=.01), but there was no excess in mortality overnight compared with early (derivation OR: .97, p=.72; validation OR: 1.01, p=.90). Composite endpoints followed similar patterns. This study indicates that circadian patterns in onset of STEMI continue to exist with patient characteristics differing by time of day. Despite a potential physiologic resistance to morning thrombolysis, outcomes were best in the early cohort, intermediate overnight, and worst with late-day symptom onset. Efforts to reduce smoking and improve control of blood pressure could reduce the number of patients with late-day onset of STEMI who experience the worst outcomes.

UI  - 23127614
TI  - -blocker use in patients after percutaneous coronary interventions: one size fits all? Worse outcomes in patients without myocardial infarction or heart failure.
AB  - -blocker therapy was associated with worse 3-year clinical outcomes in CAD patients who underwent PCI but had no history of MI or HF. Randomized trials are warranted to identify appropriate subsets of patients who could truly benefit from long-term use of -blockers in this setting.

UI  - 23117779
TI  - Platelet function during extended prasugrel and clopidogrel therapy for patients with ACS treated without revascularization: the TRILOGY ACS platelet function substudy.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00699998.

UI  - 23106905
TI  - Randomized comparison of new dual-antiplatelet therapy (aspirin, prasugrel) and triple-antiplatelet therapy (aspirin, clopidogrel, cilostazol) using P2Y12 point-of-care assay in patients with STEMI undergoing primary PCI.
AB  - A new DAT is more potent antiplatelet therapy than TAT in patients with STEMI undergoing primary PCI.

UI  - 23084550
TI  - Effect of additional treatment with EXenatide in patients with an Acute Myocardial Infarction: the EXAMI study.
AB  - 

UI  - 23067904
TI  - Study design for the "effect of METOprolol in CARDioproteCtioN during an acute myocardial InfarCtion" (METOCARD-CNIC): a randomized, controlled parallel-group, observer-blinded clinical trial of early pre-reperfusion metoprolol administration in ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction.
AB  - The METOCARD-CNIC trial is testing the hypothesis that the early initiation of IV metoprolol pre-reperfusion reduces infarct size in comparison to initiation of oral metoprolol post-reperfusion. Given the implications of infarct size reduction in STEMI, if positive, this trial might evidence that a refined use of an approved inexpensive drug can improve outcomes of patients with STEMI.

UI  - 23061531
TI  - The effect of prethrombolytic cyclosporine-A injection on clinical outcome of acute anterior ST-elevation myocardial infarction.
AB  - In this study, the prethrombolytic administration of CsA was not associated with a reduction in the infarct size or any improvement in clinical outcomes.

UI  - 23054463
TI  - Lack of association between clopidogrel responsiveness tested using point-of-care assay and prognosis of patients with coronary artery disease.
AB  - Dual antiplatelet therapy is important treatment modality across the spectrum of coronary artery disease manifestations. However, a significant number of patients do not have a completely effective response to clopidogrel. This study assessed the impact of response after clopidogrel with Verify Now device on prognosis on patients undergoing coronary interventions. Consecutive patients following percutaneous coronary intervention were prospectively enrolled. A loading dose of 600mg of clopidogrel was administered before or during PCI. Blood samples were drawn within 24h after clopidogrel administration. The effect of clopidogrel was measured using VerifyNow. All patients were evaluated at 6months. The primary end-point was the combination of death, MI and stroke. 378 patients (69.3% men and 30.7% women) were enrolled. The mean age was 67.212.8years, BMI 28.917.7, and 116 patients had diabetes (30.7%). During the 6-months follow-up 30 patients (7.94%) experienced a monitored end-point: 12 patients (3.17%) had MI; five patients (1.32%) strokes and 15 patients (3.97%) died. The remaining 248 patients (71.26%) were end-point free. Factors associated with a poor prognosis were: leukocytes (OR 1.7 [1.2-2.4], p<0.01), creatinine (OR 1.4 [1.1-2.5], p<0.05) and at a borderline level the presence of AA allele of gene CYP2C19*2 (OR 2.5 [0.99-4.1], p=0.052). The results using VerifyNow were similar between both groups (Group End-point: 208.585.5, group No end-point 203.191.3) and failed to show any prognostic value (OR 1.00 [0.992-1.007], p=0.9). The measurement of clopidogrel efficacy using VerifyNow had no prognostic value for our unselected cohort of patients after PCI.

UI  - 23046599
TI  - Intravenous immunoglobulin does not reduce left ventricular remodeling in patients with myocardial dysfunction during hospitalization after acute myocardial infarction.
AB  - IVIg therapy after ST elevation MI managed by primary PCI does not affect LV remodeling or function. This illustrates the challenges of therapeutic intervention directed against the cytokine network, to prevent post-MI remodeling.

UI  - 22999073
TI  - Effect of tailored antiplatelet therapy on periprocedural myonecrosis in patients with diabetes mellitus (from the DM-Verify Now Trial).
AB  - We investigated whether additional platelet inhibition with a glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitor would be beneficial in reducing the risk of periprocedural myocardial infarction (PMI) in diabetic patients with high residual platelet reactivity (HPR). Patients with diabetes mellitus were administered aspirin and clopidogrel at a 300-mg loading dose 1 day before the procedure, and the VerifyNow P2Y(12) assay was performed just before percutaneous coronary intervention. Patients with HPR, defined as a P2Y(12) reaction unit of 270 were randomly assigned to group A or control group C1. Patients without HPR were assigned to control group C2. Conventional anticoagulation with heparin was given to groups C1 and C2, and group A received additional abciximab treatment. Clinically relevant PMI was defined as any elevation in the biomarkers creatine kinase-MB isoenzyme and cardiac troponin I >3 times the upper normal limit measured 8, 16, or 24 hours after percutaneous coronary intervention. Of the patients, 47 and 51 were assigned to group A and C1; the clinical and procedural characteristics in the 2 groups were balanced. Of the 47 patients in group A and 51 patients in group C1, 9 (19%) and 9 (18%), respectively, experienced a PMI event according to the creatine kinase-MB cutoff (p = 1.00), and 27 in group A (57%) and 29 in group C1 (57%) experienced a PMI event according to the troponin I cutoff (p = 1.00). Five minor bleeding events, including small and localized hematomas, were observed immediately after the procedure (4 in group A and 1 in group C1). Only 1 major bleeding event, retroperitoneal hemorrhage, was observed in group A. The patients in group C2 had a PMI event rate (50% of 32 patients, p = 1.00) similar to that of group C1. In conclusion, additional platelet inhibition using a tailored approach and a point-of-care assay did not improve the periprocedural outcome in diabetic patients with HPR.

UI  - 22986471
TI  - Microvascular effect of intracoronary eptifibatide in acute myocardial infarction.
AB  - In AMI patients loaded with 600 mg of clopidogrel undergoing PPCI, intracoronary administration of eptifibatide does not clearly improve microvascular obstruction.

UI  - 22980307
TI  - REstoration of COronary flow in patients with no-reflow after primary coronary interVEntion of acute myocaRdial infarction (RECOVER).
AB  - Intracoronary infusion of diltiazem or verapamil can reverse no-reflow more effectively than nitroglycerin during primary PCI for acute myocardial infarction. The efficacy of diltiazem and verapamil is similar, and diltiazem seems safer.

UI  - 22980300
TI  - Efficacy of early invasive management post-fibrinolysis in men versus women with ST-elevation myocardial infarction: a subgroup analysis from Trial of Routine Angioplasty and Stenting after Fibrinolysis to Enhance Reperfusion in Acute Myocardial Infarction (TRANSFER-AMI).
AB  - The borderline heterogeneity in treatment efficacy of a pharmacoinvasive strategy in men versus women was no longer evident after adjustment for the difference in baseline risk. This suggests that sex per se was not an important determinant of the efficacy of a pharmacoinvasive strategy. Owing to the small number of women in this trial, further study in this area is needed.

UI  - 22968678
TI  - Metformin in non-diabetic patients presenting with ST elevation myocardial infarction: rationale and design of the glycometabolic intervention as adjunct to primary percutaneous intervention in ST elevation myocardial infarction (GIPS)-III trial.
AB  - The GIPS-III trial will evaluate the efficacy of metformin treatment to preserve left ventricular ejection fraction in STEMI patients without diabetes.

UI  - 22963506
TI  - Does spironolactone have a dose-dependent effect on left ventricular remodeling in patients with preserved left ventricular function after an acute myocardial infarction?
AB  - In conclusion, spironolactone dosages of up to 25 mg do not augment optimal medical treatment for LV remodeling in patients with preserved cardiac functions after AMI.

UI  - 22951358
TI  - A single center, open, randomized study investigating the clinical safety and the endothelial modulating effects of a prostacyclin analog in combination with eptifibatide in patients having undergone primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) for ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction.
AB  - Treatment with the endothelial modulator prostacyclin may be beneficial in patients with endothelial dysfunction. The primary aim of the present pilot study was to evaluate the safety and the potential endothelial modulating affect of the prostacyclin analog iloprost in patients with a recent ST segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI). Seventeen patients were randomized to either 24 h of iloprost infusion in combination with low dose eptifibatide infusion or saline infusion+eptifibatide. The study was randomized and open labeled. None of the patients experienced any bleeding complications and vital signs were stable throughout the entire study period in both groups. None of the functional hemostatic whole blood assays applied in the present study differed between the active treatment and the placebo group. The endothelial marker, sE-selectin, displayed a decrease over time in the iloprost group but increased in the placebo group (p=0.008), whereas none of the other biomarkers of endothelial cell and glycocalyx activation or damage differed significantly between the groups. In this pilot study, infusion of a prostacyclin analog appeared safe and has a detectable modulating effect of activated endothelium in patients with a recent STEMI. ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT01179776.

UI  - 22949493
TI  - Guideline adherence after ST-segment elevation versus non-ST segment elevation myocardial infarction.
AB  - Among hospitals participating in GWTG-CAD, adherence with guideline-based medical therapy was high for patients with both STEMI and NSTEMI. Yet, there is still room for further improvement, particularly in the care of NSTEMI patients.

UI  - 22940818
TI  - Design and rationale of low-dose erythropoietin in patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (EPO-AMI-II study): a randomized controlled clinical trial.
AB  - EPO-AMI-II study will clarify the safety and efficacy of low-dose EPO in STEMI patients with LV dysfunction in a double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter study. (247 words).

UI  - 22930115
TI  - Prasugrel versus high dose clopidogrel to overcome early high on clopidogrel platelet reactivity in patients with ST elevation myocardial infarction.
AB  - HTPR is commonly observed early post 600 mg clopidogrel LD in STEMI patients. In this case, prasugrel 60 mg LD/10 mg MD provides faster and stronger platelet inhibition than a high clopidogrel MD regimen.

UI  - 22920930
TI  - Prasugrel versus clopidogrel for acute coronary syndromes without revascularization.
AB  - Among patients with unstable angina or myocardial infarction without ST-segment elevation, prasugrel did not significantly reduce the frequency of the primary end point, as compared with clopidogrel, and similar risks of bleeding were observed. (Funded by Eli Lilly and Daiichi Sankyo; TRILOGY ACS ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00699998.).

UI  - 22901969
TI  - Bleeding complications with regional adaptation of a prolonged bivalirudin regimen for ST-elevation acute myocardial infarction.
AB  - Bivalirudin (BIV) is superior to a heparin/glycoprotein IIb/IIIa receptor inhibitor (GPI) strategy with respect to net adverse cardiovascular events for ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI), albeit with an increased risk of acute stent thrombosis. We hypothesized that a 2-hour BIV infusion after PCI (BIV + 2) could be used without increased bleeding risk as a potential method of mitigating early thrombotic risk. We analyzed a 6-center regional protocol involving routine therapy with aspirin, clopidogrel, and bolus heparin followed by primary PCI for STEMI using BIV. All consecutive patients presenting with STEMI requiring primary PCI were included (2009 to 2011). We compared baseline characteristics and clinical outcomes of the University of Vermont Regional Registry to the historical groups of BIV (BIV terminated at end of PCI) or unfractionated heparin/GPI from the HORIZONS trial and determined independent predictors of bleeding. Of 346 patients undergoing PCI for STEMI, 98% received BIV; 82% of patients received BIV + 2, and 13.3% of all patients receiving BIV received GPI bailout. All-cause mortality was 3.1%. Overall bleeding rates were 50% less than in the HORIZONS GPI arm and similar to the HORIZONS BIV arm. Acute stent thrombosis occurred in <1.0% of patients. Bailout GPI was a potent independent predictor of bleeding complications. In conclusion, BIV + 2 is a feasible regional pharmacologic algorithm for STEMI PCI; BIV + 2 for STEMI PCI is not associated with increased bleeding risk and warrants further study as a mechanism of mitigating very early thrombosis risk.

UI  - 22872593
TI  - Statin therapy and clinical outcomes in myocardial infarction patients complicated by acute heart failure: insights from the EPHESUS trial.
AB  - Our results suggest that patients with acute HF complicating acute MI may benefit from being on statin therapy. Prospective clinical trials are required to validate these findings.

UI  - 22864179
TI  - Influence of omeprazole and famotidine on the antiplatelet effects of clopidogrel in addition to aspirin in patients with acute coronary syndromes: a prospective, randomized, multicenter study.
AB  - As compared with famotidine, concomitant use of low-dose omeprazole does not significantly attenuate the antiplatelet effects of clopidogrel in patients with ACS, especially in those with STEMI.

UI  - 22845802
TI  - The impact of smoking on the antiplatelet action of clopidogrel in non-ST-elevation myocardial infarction patients: results from the ISAR-REACT 4 platelet substudy.
AB  - 

UI  - 22833598
TI  - Aspirin administration by emergency medical dispatchers using a protocol-driven aspirin diagnostic and instruction tool.
AB  - EMDs, using a standardised protocol, can enable early aspirin therapy to treat potential ACS/AMI prior to responders' arrival. Further research is required to assess reasons for not using the protocol, and the significance of the various associations discovered.

UI  - 22813612
TI  - Prospective evaluation of pregnancy-associated plasma protein-a and outcomes in patients with acute coronary syndromes.
AB  - PAPP-A was independently associated with recurrent cardiovascular events in patients with NSTE-ACS. This finding supports PAPP-A as a candidate prognostic marker in patients with ACS and supports investigation of its therapeutic implications.

UI  - 22800889
TI  - Three hours continuous injection of adenosine improved left ventricular function and infarct size in patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction.
AB  - Intravenous adenosine administration might significantly reduce the recurrence of no-reflow, with resultant improved left ventricular systolic function. High-dose adenosine was further associated with significant reduction of infarct size.

UI  - 22763923
TI  - Association of COX-2 rs20417 with aspirin resistance.
AB  - Aspirin is the most commonly used antiplatelet drug for treatment of a serious vascular event, most notably stroke and myocardial infarction. However, despite the demonstrated benefit of aspirin, significant fraction of aspirin-treated patients may be resistant to the antiplatelet effects of the drug. The possible mechanisms of aspirin resistance (AR) are multifactorial. A genetic basis for AR has been suggested to exist. Therefore, the present study was taken up to investigate the role of -765G/C polymorphism (rs20417) in the cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) gene with AR in stroke patients. Four hundred and fifty stroke patients and four hundred and forty age and sex matched healthy controls were involved in the study. Baseline clinical data were collected and follow-up telephone interviews were conducted with patients at 3months post event to determine stroke outcome using Modified Rankin Scale. Blood samples were collected and genotypes determined by polymerase chain reaction-restriction digestion technique. The association between the genotypes and outcome was evaluated by stepwise multiple logistic regression analysis. The COX-2 CC and GC genotype showed a significant association with bad outcome. Therefore, the carriers of C allele of COX-2 -765G/C polymorphism are more prone to AR in comparison with non-carriers. These results support a potential role of -765G/C COX-2 gene polymorphism with AR in ischemic stroke patients.

UI  - 22761709
TI  - A randomized, single-center double-blinded trial on the effects of diltiazem sustained-release capsules in patients with coronary slow flow phenomenon at 6-month follow-up.
AB  - Chinese Clinical Trial Registry ChiCTR-TCC-11001864.

UI  - 22748465
TI  - Interleukin-21--a biomarker of importance in predicting myocardial function following acute infarction?
AB  - IL-21 predicts adverse remodelling following AMI in patients with LV dysfunction. Whether it plays a direct pathophysiological role in remodelling merits further study.

UI  - 22748356
TI  - Comparison of abciximab versus eptifibatide during percutaneous coronary intervention in ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (from the HORIZONS-AMI trial).
AB  - There are limited safety and effectiveness data comparing glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors in the setting of primary percutaneous coronary intervention. In this substudy of the Harmonizing Outcomes With Revascularization and Stents in Acute Myocardial Infarction (HORIZONS-AMI) trial, the clinical and bleeding outcomes of eptifibatide versus abciximab were evaluated in patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction who underwent percutaneous coronary intervention. Three-year clinical outcomes of patients in the heparin plus glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitor arm were compared according to treatment with abciximab (n = 907) versus eptifibatide (n = 803). Adjudicated end points included major adverse cardiovascular events (MACEs; mortality, reinfarction, ischemia-driven target vessel revascularization, or stroke), major bleeding, and net adverse clinical events (MACEs or major bleeding). Propensity score matching was used to identify 1,342 matched cases (671 each in the abciximab and eptifibatide groups). Multivariate analysis was performed in the entire cohort and the propensity-matched groups. At 3-year follow-up, eptifibatide and abciximab resulted in nonsignificantly different rates of MACEs (18.3% vs 19.6%, hazard ratio [HR] 0.93, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.74 to 1.16, p = 0.51), major bleeding (10.7% vs 11.9%, HR 0.90, 95% CI 0.67 to 1.19, p = 0.44), and net adverse clinical events (24.5% vs 25.5%, HR 0.96, 95% CI 0.79 to 1.17, p = 0.69). Similarly, at 3 years by multivariate analysis, there was no statistically significant difference between abciximab and eptifibatide for net adverse clinical events (HR 0.89, 95% CI 0.73 to 1.09, p = 0.27), MACEs (HR 0.96, 95% CI 0.77 to 1.20, p = 0.73), and major bleeding (HR 1.05, 95% CI 0.78 to 1.41, p = 0.75). The propensity-matched groups also had similar outcomes. In conclusion, abciximab and eptifibatide have comparable bleeding risks and clinical efficacy in primary percutaneous coronary intervention.

UI  - 22727972
TI  - Pantoprazole significantly interferes with antiplatelet effect of clopidogrel: results of a pilot randomized trial.
AB  - This is the first documentation in a randomized trial, after correction for the bias of CYP2C19*2 polymorphism, that pantoprazole increases the ADP-MA in patients treated with dual antiplatelet therapy.

UI  - 22727961
TI  - Antiplatelet effect of 600- and 300-mg loading doses of clopidogrel in patients undergoing primary percutaneous coronary intervention for ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction: an analysis of the ARMYDA-6 MI (Antiplatelet therapy for Reduction of MYocardial Damage during Angioplasty-Myocardial Infarction) Study.
AB  - 

UI  - 22709754
TI  - Long-term outcomes after a strategy of percutaneous coronary intervention of the infarct-related artery with drug-eluting stents or bare metal stents vs medical therapy alone in the Occluded Artery Trial (OAT).
AB  - There is no suggestion of reduced long-term risk of death, reinfarction or class IV CHF with DES usage compared to BMS or medical treatment alone. An association between DES use and freedom from angina and revascularization relative to medical therapy is suggested.

UI  - 22704077
TI  - P2Y12 platelet reactivity after thrombolytic therapy for ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction.
AB  - Platelet reactivity, as assessed by post-treatment P2Y12 mediated reactivity, is heightened after thrombolytic therapy during STEMI management. In this scenario, standard doses of clopidogrel did not achieve significant inhibition of ADP-mediated platelet reactivity.

UI  - 22688312
TI  - Clopidogrel trial in patients with elective percutaneous coronary intervention for stable angina and old myocardial infarction (CLEAN).
AB  - Clopidogrel in combination with aspirin has been widely used in patients who have undergone coronary stent implantation. However, the benefit to Japanese patients with stable angina (SA) or old myocardial infarction (OMI) undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) still remains unclear.The aim of this multicenter, randomized, double-blind, clinical study was to evaluate the safety of a clopidogrel 300 mg loading dose followed by a 75 mg maintenance dose compared to ticlopidine 100 mg twice daily in patients with SA or OMI undergoing PCI who were on aspirin (81 to 100 mg once daily). The primary endpoint was the composite of safety events comprising clinically significant bleeding, blood disorders, elevated liver function values, and study drug discontinuation up to week 12. The key secondary endpoints were major adverse cardiac events (MACE), major adverse cardiac and cerebrovascular events (MACCE), and bleeding events. A total of 1003 patients were randomly allocated to receive either clopidogrel or ticlopidine and 931 patients underwent PCI. The cumulative incidence of the composite safety endpoint in the clopidogrel group was statistically lower than that of ticlopidine (P < 0.0001, hazard ratio; 0.259; 95%CI; 0.187 to 0.359). There were no statistically significant differences between treatments with respect to MACE at week 12 (P = 0.7899) nor to the bleeding events (P = 0.5292, stratified log-rank test).Clopidogrel was found to have a better benefit/risk profile than ticlopidine in Japanese patients with SA or OMI undergoing PCI.

UI  - 22658699
TI  - Effect of pitavastatin treatment on changes of plaque volume and composition according to the reduction of high-sensitivity C-reactive protein levels.
AB  - Reduction in hs-CRP levels in AMI patients plays an important role in the beneficial effects of statins on the regression and compositional change of coronary plaque.

UI  - 22658254
TI  - Early abciximab administration before primary percutaneous coronary intervention improves clinical outcome in diabetic patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (EUROTRANSFER Registry).
AB  - Early administration of abciximab improves infarct-related artery patency before and after primary PCI, and leads to improved survival in diabetic STEMI patients.

UI  - 22648087
TI  - The effect of acute administration of statins on coronary microcirculation during the pre-revascularization period in patients with myocardial infraction.
AB  - The acute statin administration prior to reperfusion either alone or in synergy with staccato reperfusion ameliorates coronary microcirculatory dysfunction in patients with myocardial infarction.

UI  - 22633301
TI  - Hypo- and hyperglycemia predict outcome in patients with left ventricular dysfunction after acute myocardial infarction: data from EPHESUS.
AB  - In heart failure after acute myocardial infarction, both hypo- and hyperglycemia at the postacute phase identify patients with increased risk of death during long-term follow-up.

UI  - 22607853
TI  - Rationale and design of the Cangrelor versus standard therapy to acHieve optimal Management of Platelet InhibitiON PHOENIX trial.
AB  - The CHAMPION PHOENIX may establish the role of cangrelor in the care of patients who require PCI across the spectrum of stable and unstable coronary diseases in the setting of current treatment strategies.

UI  - 22592028
TI  - Statin therapy to reduce stent thrombosis in acute myocardial infarction patients with elevated high-sensitivity C-reactive protein.
AB  - Peri-procedural statin treatment had an effect on reduced incidence of early ST in AMI patients with high levels of hs-CRP.

UI  - 22578736
TI  - Adherence to ACC/AHA performance measures for myocardial infarction in six Middle-Eastern countries: association with in-hospital mortality and clinical characteristics.
AB  - Overall adherence was lowest among the highest-risk patients. Lower in-hospital mortality was independently associated with adherence to early performance measures, comprising observational evidence for their effectiveness in a Middle East cohort. These data provide a focus for regional quality improvement initiatives and research.

UI  - 22565140
TI  - Lessons from platelet inhibition and patient outcomes.
AB  - Among patients with an ACS with or without ST-segment elevation, treatment with ticagrelor, as compared with clopidogrel, significantly reduced the rate of death from vascular causes, myocardial infarction, or stroke without an increase in the rate of overall major bleeding but with an increase in the rate of nonprocedure-related bleeding.

UI  - 22559269
TI  - Intra-graft abciximab and verapamil combined with direct stenting is a safe and effective strategy to prevent slow-flow and no-reflow phenomenon in saphenous vein graft lesions not associated with thrombus.
AB  - In recent years several distal embolic protection devices have been granted patents for minimizing the chance of slow-flow/no-reflow phenomenon. In carefully selected subgroup of SVG lesions without visible macrothrombus, a strategy of prophylactic intra-graft administration of abciximab and verapamil, combined with direct stenting of the graft lesion without pre-dilatation, can be safely accomplished without any significant risk of slow-flow/no-reflow phenomenon. We propose a patent to this 3-step strategy of percutaneous coronary intervention of SVG lesions not associated with thrombus.

UI  - 22531464
TI  - Impact of gender differences on myocardial salvage and post-ischaemic left ventricular remodelling after primary coronary angioplasty: new insights from cardiovascular magnetic resonance.
AB  - The better reperfusion pattern observed in women by CMR in our population of reperfused STEMI suggests sex-based differences exist. No gender differences were observed with respect to incidence of LV remodelling at the follow-up mainly occurring in the subset of patients with a larger IS.

UI  - 22508423
TI  - Endothelial function, oxidative stress and inflammatory studies in chronic coronary slow flow phenomenon patients.
AB  - The coronary slow flow phenomenon (CSFP) is associated with coronary microvascular dysfunction although the responsible mechanisms are unknown. This study compared endothelial function assessed by changes in augmentation index (AIx) following endothelium-independent (glyceryl trinitrate, GTN) and endothelium-dependent vasodilators (salbutamol), in 40 stable CSFP patients and 23 age-matched healthy controls. Plasma concentrations of inflammatory proteins (myeloperoxidase and high-sensitivity C-reactive protein), oxidative stress biomarkers (malondialdehyde and homocysteine), and asymmetric dimethylarginine levels were also determined. There were no differences between CSFP and controls in response to salbutamol (AIx: -2.28  0.88% vs. -3.22  0.70%, p = 0.4) or GTN (AIx: -11.30  0.75% vs. -13.30  1.00%, p = 0.12). Similarly, there were no differences in the measured biomarkers. Thus, alternate mechanisms to the assessed endothelial function, inflammatory and oxidative stress processes should be explored to explain the microvascular dysfunction in CSFP patients.

UI  - 22496085
TI  - Effect of iron chelation on myocardial infarct size and oxidative stress in ST-elevation-myocardial infarction.
AB  - URL: http://www.anzctr.org.au/. Unique identifier: ACTRN12608000308392.

UI  - 22496084
TI  - Exenatide reduces final infarct size in patients with ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction and short-duration of ischemia.
AB  - URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00835848.

UI  - 22490713
TI  - [Effect of early high-loading-dose tirofiban on platelet activity in patients with acute ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction undergoing primary percutaneous coronary intervention].
AB  - Early use of high-loading-dose of tirofiban on top of 600 mg loading dose clopidogrel is more efficient on inhibiting platelet activity than standard dose of tirofiban in patients with acute STEMI undergoing primary primary percutaneous coronary intervention.

UI  - 22473458
TI  - Effects of valsartan, an angiotensin II receptor blocker, on coronary atherosclerosis in patients with acute myocardial infarction who receive an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor.
AB  - In this study of patients with AMI, additional ARB therapy had minimal impact on the progression of coronary atherosclerosis as compared with an ACEI alone. The combination of these 2 drugs, however, induces coronary artery enlargement.

UI  - 22465317
TI  - Role of non-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol in predicting cerebrovascular events in patients following myocardial infarction.
AB  - Although there appears to be a role for statins in reducing cerebrovascular events, the exact role of different lipid fractions in the etiopathogenesis of cerebrovascular disease (CVD) is not well understood. A secondary analysis of data collected for the placebo arm (n = 2,078) of the Cholesterol and Recurrent Events (CARE) trial was performed. The CARE trial was a placebo-controlled trial aimed at testing the effect of pravastatin on patients after myocardial infarction. Patients with histories of CVD were excluded from the study. A Cox proportional-hazards model was used to evaluate the association between plausible risk factors (including lipid fractions) and risk for first incident CVD in patients after myocardial infarction. At the end of 5 years, 123 patients (6%) had incident CVD after myocardial infarction (76 with stroke and 47 with transient ischemic attack). Baseline non-high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol level emerged as the only significant lipid risk factor that predicted CVD; low-density lipoprotein cholesterol and HDL cholesterol were not significant. The adjusted hazard ratios (adjusted for age, gender, hypertension, diabetes mellitus, and smoking) for CVD were 1.28 (95% confidence interval [CI] 1.06 to 1.53) for non-HDL cholesterol, 1.14 (95% CI 0.96 to 1.37) for low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and 0.90 (95% CI 0.75 to 1.09) for HDL cholesterol (per unit SD change of lipid fractions). This relation held true regardless of the level of triglycerides. After adjustment for age and gender, the hazard ratio for the highest natural quartile of non-HDL was 1.76 (95% CI 1.05 to 2.54), compared to 1.36 (95% CI 0.89 to 1.90) for low-density lipoprotein cholesterol. In conclusion, non-HDL cholesterol is the strongest predictor among the lipid risk factors of incident CVD in patients with established coronary heart disease.

UI  - 22464576
TI  - [Changes in coagulation and fibrinolysis in the patients with coronary heart disease in acute period and effect of drug intervention].
AB  - There were changes in coagulation and fibrinolysis status in patients with AMI and UAP at the initial stage, the level of t-PA was decreased significantly. For patients with AMI and UAP, there were no obvious differences in coagulation and fibrinolysis parameters between combination therapy of clopidogrel and aspirin and aspirin alone.

UI  - 22459388
TI  - Effects of vitamin D supplementation on markers of vascular function after myocardial infarction--a randomised controlled trial.
AB  - Supplementation with vitamin D did not improve markers of vascular function in patients with a history of myocardial infarction.

UI  - 22449332
TI  - Cotreatment with darbepoetin and granulocyte colony-stimulating factor is efficient to recruit proangiogenic cell populations in patients with acute myocardial infarction.
AB  - www.ClinicalTrials. gov identifier: NCT00501917).

UI  - 22447888
TI  - Intracoronary abciximab and aspiration thrombectomy in patients with large anterior myocardial infarction: the INFUSE-AMI randomized trial.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00976521.

UI  - 22443427
TI  - Vorapaxar in the secondary prevention of atherothrombotic events.
AB  - Inhibition of PAR-1 with vorapaxar reduced the risk of cardiovascular death or ischemic events in patients with stable atherosclerosis who were receiving standard therapy. However, it increased the risk of moderate or severe bleeding, including intracranial hemorrhage. (Funded by Merck; TRA 2P-TIMI 50 ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00526474.).

UI  - 22438429
TI  - Long-term follow-up of attenuated plaques in patients with acute myocardial infarction: an intravascular ultrasound substudy of the HORIZONS-AMI trial.
AB  - URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00433966.

UI  - 22436478
TI  - Dopamine versus norepinephrine in the treatment of shock.
AB  - The authors of this study set out to compare 28-day mortality in patients with shock who were treated with either dopamine or norepinephrine as initial vasopressor therapy. The authors' secondary outcome measures included mortality beyond 28 days and adverse events associated with each agent.

UI  - 22435765
TI  - Do clinical pathways enhance access to evidence-based acute myocardial infarction treatment in rural emergency departments?
AB  - The lack of impact of the implementation process for a chest pain CPW on thrombolytic delivery or time to electrocardiogram in these rural hospitals can be explained by a ceiling effect in outcome measures but was also compromised by the small sample. Results suggest that quality of AMI treatment in rural emergency departments (EDs) is high and does not contribute to the worse mortality rate reported for AMIs in rural areas.

UI  - 22419603
TI  - Early statin treatment prior to primary PCI for acute myocardial infarction: REPERATOR, a randomized placebo-controlled pilot trial.
AB  - In this pilot study, pretreatment with atorvastatin in an acute myocardial infarction does not result in an improved cardiac function, microvascular perfusion, or decreased myocardial infarct size.

UI  - 22396583
TI  - Comparison of 5-year clinical outcomes between sirolimus-versus paclitaxel-eluting stent: Korean multicenter network analysis of 9000-patient cohort.
AB  - The PES was inferior to the SES in the clinical follow-up of more than 9000 patients' cohort for 5 years, which was mainly driven by the difference in the first year. In the subpopulation of people with diabetes that showed higher MACE than people without diabetes, however, PES was comparable to SES in any clinical outcome for 5 years. Although these 2 stents are not frequently used as before, the data would be useful to expect the long-term clinical course of the current DES.

UI  - 22394170
TI  - No effects of n-3 fatty acid supplementation on serum total testosterone levels in older men: the Alpha Omega Trial.
AB  - The intake of the n-3 fatty acids alpha-linolenic acid (ALA), acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) has been related to testosterone levels in epidemiological analyses. The aim of this study was to assess whether the n-3 fatty acids affects testosterone levels in post-myocardial infarction (MI) patients, who are at risk of testosterone deficiency. In a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of low-dose supplementation of n-3 fatty acids, we included 1850 male post-MI patients aged 60-80 years who participated in the Alpha Omega Trial. Patients were randomly allocated to margarines that provided 400 mg/day of EPA-DHA (n = 453), 2 mg/day of ALA (n = 467), EPA-DHA plus ALA (n = 458), or placebo (n = 472). Serum testosterone levels were assessed at baseline and after 41 months using whole day blood samples obtained at the subjects' home or at the hospital. Subjects were on average age of 68.4 (SD 5.3) years old and had baseline mean serum total testosterone of 14.8 (SD 5.6) nmol/L. The four randomized groups did not differ for baseline characteristics. ALA, EPA-DHA, and EPA-DHA plus ALA supplementation did not affect serum total testosterone compared to placebo. Moreover, n-3 fatty acid supplementation did not affect the risk of incident testosterone deficiency (n = 76 with total testosterone <8.0 nmol/L). We conclude that n-3 fatty acids supplementation did not affect serum total testosterone in men who had had a MI.

UI  - 22384546
TI  - [Effect of naoxintong capsule on the vascular endothelial function and the infarct size of patients with acute myocardial infarction].
AB  - NC could reduce the infarct size of AMI patients possibly through improving the vascular endothelial function.

UI  - 22361751
TI  - Effect of pioglitazone on arterial baroreflex sensitivity and sympathetic nerve activity in patients with acute myocardial infarction and type 2 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - Pioglitazone has been shown to reduce the occurrence of fatal and nonfatal myocardial infarction (MI) in type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM). However, the mechanisms of such favorable effects remain speculative. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of pioglitazone on arterial baroreflex sensitivity (BRS) and muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) in 30 DM patients with recent MI. Patients were randomly assigned to those taking pioglitazone (n = 15) and those not taking pioglitazone (n = 15) at 4 weeks after the onset of MI. BRS, MSNA, calculated homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance index (HOMA-IR), and plasma adiponectin were measured at baseline and after 12 weeks. Pioglitazone increased plasma adiponectin (from 6.9  3.3 g/dL to 12.2  7.1 g/dL) and reduced HOMA-IR (from 4.0  2.2 to 2.1  0.9). In the pioglitazone group, MSNA decreased significantly (from 37  7 bursts/min to 25  8 bursts/min) and BRS increased significantly (from 6.7  3.0 to 9.9  3.2 ms/mm Hg) after 12 weeks. Furthermore, a significant relationship was found between the change in MSNA and HOMA-IR (r = 0.6, P = 0.042). Thus, pioglitazone decreased the sympathetic nerve traffic through the improvement of insulin resistance in DM patients with recent MI, which indicate that the sympathoinhibitory effects of pioglitazone may, at least in part, have contributed to the beneficial effects of pioglitazone.

UI  - 22359050
TI  - Impact of type of thrombolytic agent on in-hospital outcomes in ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction patients in the Middle East.
AB  - Little is known about the impact of thrombolytic agents on in-hospital outcomes in the Middle East. The objective of this study was to evaluate the impact of thrombolytic agents on in-hospital outcomes in ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) patients in six Middle Eastern countries. Gulf Registry of Acute Coronary Events was a prospective, multinational, multicentre, observational survey of consecutive acute coronary syndrome patients admitted to 65 hospitals in 2006 and 2007. Out of 1,765 STEMI patients admitted to hospitals within 12h of symptoms onset, 25, 43, and 30% were treated with streptokinase, reteplase, and tenecteplase, respectively. Median age of the study cohort was 50 (45-59) years and majority were males (89%). The overall median symptom onset-to-presentation and median door-to-needle times were 130min (65-240) and 45min (30-75), respectively. Streptokinase patients had worse GRACE risk scores compared to patients who received fibrin specific thrombolytics. Academic hospitals and cardiologists as admitting physicians were associated with the use of fibrin specific thrombolytics. After significant covariate adjustment, both reteplase [odds ratio (OR), 0.38; 95% CI: 0.18-0.79; P=0.009] and tenecteplase (OR, 0.30; 95% CI: 0.12-0.77; P=0.012) were associated with lower all-cause in-hospital mortality compared with streptokinase. No significant differences in other in-hospital outcomes were noted between the thrombolytic agents. In conclusion, in light of the study's limitations, fibrin specific agents, reteplase and tenecteplase, were associated with lower all-cause in-hospital mortality compared to the non-specific fibrin agent, streptokinase. However, the type of thrombolytic agent used did not influence other in-hospital outcomes.

UI  - 22345693
TI  - Physical activity after myocardial infarction: is it related to mental health?
AB  - Concordant inverse associations were observed for (changes) in physical activity and depressive symptoms. Physical activity did not predict depressive symptoms or low optimism.

UI  - 22319064
TI  - Prehospital abciximab in ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction: results of the randomized, double-blind MISTRAL study.
AB  - Early ambulance administration of abciximab in STEMI did not improve either STR or TIMI flow rate after PCI. However, it tended to improve TIMI flow pre-PCI and decreased distal embolization during procedure. Larger studies are needed to confirm these results.

UI  - 22313548
TI  - Cost-effectiveness of bivalirudin versus heparin plus glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitor in the treatment of acute ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction.
AB  - The use of bivalirudin instead of H-GPI in STEMI patients undergoing PPCI is cost-effective, and offers a high probability of dominance. Background treatment with aspirin and clopidogrel is assumed.

UI  - 22305962
TI  - Mechanisms and predictors of mitral regurgitation after high-risk myocardial infarction.
AB  - Increased mitral tenting and larger mitral annular area are determinants of MR degree at baseline, and tenting area is an independent predictor of progression of MR after MI. Although LV remodeling itself contributes to ischemic MR, this influence is directly dependent on alterations in mitral geometry.

UI  - 22305834
TI  - Efficacy and safety of enoxaparin compared with unfractionated heparin in the pharmacoinvasive management of acute ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction: Insights from the TRANSFER-AMI trial.
AB  - Among high-risk patients with STEMI undergoing early or late transfer for cardiac catheterization after fibrinolysis, enoxaparin was associated with similar efficacy compared with UFH, but there was more minor bleeding with enoxaparin (ClinicalTrials.gov no. NCT00164190).

UI  - 22257841
TI  - Good interobserver agreement was attainable on outcome adjudication in patients with stable coronary heart disease.
AB  - Specialists in cardiology can attain a reasonably high agreement on outcomes in patients with stable coronary heart disease.

UI  - 22240353
TI  - Cardioprotection by resveratrol: A human clinical trial in patients with stable coronary artery disease.
AB  - Several beneficial effects of resveratrol (RES), a natural antioxidant present in red wine have already been described. The aim of our study was to investigate if RES had a clinically measurable cardioprotective effect in patients after myocardial infarction. In this double-blind, placebo controlled trial 40 post-infarction Caucasian patients were randomized into two groups. One group received 10 mg RES capsule daily for 3 months. Systolic and diastolic left ventricular function, flow-mediated vasodilation (FMD), several laboratory and hemorheological parameters were measured before and after the treatment. Left ventricular ejection fraction showed an increasing tendency (ns) by RES treatment. However, left ventricular diastolic function was improved significantly (p < 0.01) by RES. A significant improvement in endothelial function measured by FMD was also observed (p < 0.05). Low-density lipoprotein (LDL) level significantly decreased (p < 0.05) in the RES treated group. Red blood cell deformability decreased and platelet aggregation increased significantly in the placebo group (p < 0.05), while resveratrol treatment has prevented these unfavourable changes. Concerning other measured parameters no significant changes were observed neither in placebo nor in RES group. Our results show that resveratrol improved left ventricle diastolic function, endothelial function, lowered LDL-cholesterol level and protected against unfavourable hemorheological changes measured in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD).

UI  - 22222425
TI  - Long-term effects of primary early granulo-monocyte colony-stimulating factor treatment on the left ventricular function and remodeling in patients with acute myocardial infarction with five-year follow-up.
AB  - 

UI  - 22214231
TI  - Beneficial effect of adenosine on myocardial perfusion in patients treated with primary percutaneous coronary intervention for acute myocardial infarction.
AB  - The present study investigated the effects of intravenous adenosine on myocardial perfusion and segmental contractile function when used as an adjunct of primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) in patients with acute ST segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI). &#129;Patients were randomly assigned to receive intravenous adenosine (n=35) or saline (n=34) within 12h of STEMI. Myocardial contrast echocardiography (MCE) and velocity vector imaging (VVI) were performed 7days after primary PCI. Serial echocardiography was performed on Days 7 and 30. Capillary blood volume (A; 6.341.98 vs 5.641.84dB; P=0.03) and myocardial blood velocity (; 0.130.04 vs 0.10.04/s; P=0.01) were higher in the adenosine group than in control patients. Myocardial blood flow (A) was 0.820.37dB/s with adenosine compared with 0.570.4dB/s in control patients (P<0.01). Improvements were seen in the adenosine compared with the control group in terms of myocardial wall strain(-13.525.61% vs -11.475.25%, respectively; P=0.03), strain rate (-1.080.52 vs -0.900.44/s, respectively; P=0.03) and segmental ejection fraction (53.6612.04% vs 48.4014.99%, respectively; P=0.03). There was a correlation between myocardial perfusion in apical anterior segments, peak systolic strain (P=0.001), strain rate (P=0.001) and segmental ejection (P<0.001). Global contractile function was better in the adenosine-treated than control group. At the 1month follow up, there were no significant differences between groups in terms of the incidence of recurrent angina or heart failure. The results of the present study suggest that periprocedural intravenous adenosine contributes to improvements in myocardial perfusion, segmental wall motion and global contractile function in patients with acute myocardial infarction undergoing primary PCI.

UI  - 22199016
TI  - American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association/European Society of Cardiology/World Heart Federation universal definition of myocardial infarction classification system and the risk of cardiovascular death: observations from the TRITON-TIMI 38 trial (Trial to Assess Improvement in Therapeutic Outcomes by Optimizing Platelet Inhibition With Prasugrel-Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction 38).
AB  - MI is associated with a significantly increased risk of cardiovascular death, with a consistent relationship across all types as defined by the universal classification system. These findings underscore the clinical relevance of these events and the importance of therapies aimed at preventing MI.

UI  - 22181063
TI  - Glucose control in acute myocardial infarction: a pilot randomized study controlled by continuous glucose monitoring system comparing the use of insulin glargine with standard of care.
AB  - This pilot study suggests that equivalent glycemic control without increase in severe hyperglycemia may be achieved using iGlar with background iReg. Data outputs were controlled by both CBG and CGMS measurements in a real-life setting to ensure reliability. Based on CGMS measurements, there were significant numbers of glycemic excursions outside of the target range. However, this was not detected by CBG. In addition, the data indicate that previous use of sulfonylurea may be a potential major risk factor for severe hypoglycemia irrespective of the type of insulin treatment.

UI  - 22179530
TI  - ST-elevation acute coronary syndromes in the Platelet Inhibition and Patient Outcomes (PLATO) trial: insights from the ECG substudy.
AB  - URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00391872.

UI  - 22172434
TI  - Single-bolus tenecteplase plus heparin compared with heparin alone for normotensive patients with acute pulmonary embolism who have evidence of right ventricular dysfunction and myocardial injury: rationale and design of the Pulmonary Embolism Thrombolysis (PEITHO) trial.
AB  - By determining the benefits vs risks of thrombolysis in submassive or intermediate-risk PE, this trial is expected to answer a long-standing query on the management of this patient population.

UI  - 22172432
TI  - Responses of mental stress-induced myocardial ischemia to escitalopram treatment: background, design, and method for the Responses of Mental Stress Induced Myocardial Ischemia to Escitalopram Treatment trial.
AB  - The REMIT study examines the effect of SSRI on MSIMI in vulnerable patients with CHD and probes some potential underlying mechanisms.

UI  - 22170713
TI  - Tight glycemic control may increase regenerative potential of myocardium during acute infarction.
AB  - Before surgery, plasma glucose reduction was greater in the IGC group than in the CGC and GIK groups (P<0.001 for both). IGC patients had higher MPC (P<0.01) and cycling myocytes (P<0.01), as well as less oxidized (P<0.01) and senescent MPC (P<0.01) in peri-infarcted specimens compared with both CGC and GIK patients. Tight glycemic control, by reducing senescent MPC, may increase regenerative potential of the ischemic myocardium.

UI  - 22162050
TI  - The effect of pre-hospital glycoprotein IIb-IIIa inhibitors on angiographic outcome in STEMI patients who are candidates for primary PCI.
AB  - The On-TIME 2 trial is registered, at http://isrctn.org, number ISRCTN06195297.

UI  - 22156314
TI  - Randomized study on the efficacy and safety of landiolol, an ultra-short-acting 1-adrenergic blocker, in patients with acute myocardial infarction undergoing primary percutaneous coronary intervention.
AB  - Early intravenous administration of landiolol in patients with AMI undergoing PCI is safe and has the potential to improve cardiac function and inhibit cardiac remodeling in the chronic phase.

UI  - 22151670
TI  - Comparison of two clinical scoring systems for emergency department risk stratification of suspected acute coronary syndrome.
AB  - The NHF/CSANZ guideline is superior to the TIMI risk score for risk stratification of suspected ACS in the ED.

UI  - 22146757
TI  - Efficacy of clotinab in acute myocardial infarction trial-ST elevation myocardial infarction (ECLAT-STEMI).
AB  - The upstream use of clotinab under a 600-mg clopidogrel loading may not significantly reduce cardiac events following primary PCI but may improve the clinical outcome in high-risk patients.

UI  - 22146235
TI  - Beneficial effects of statin treatment on coronary microvascular dysfunction and left ventricular remodeling in patients with acute myocardial infarction.
AB  - Statin treatment appears to beneficially attenuate left ventricular remodeling after AMI, which may be associated with restoring coronary endothelial function via endogenous nitric oxide.

UI  - 22128223
TI  - Determinants and consequences of renal function variations with aldosterone blocker therapy in heart failure patients after myocardial infarction: insights from the Eplerenone Post-Acute Myocardial Infarction Heart Failure Efficacy and Survival Study.
AB  - In patients with heart failure after acute myocardial infarction and receiving standard medical care, an early decline in eGFR is not uncommon and is associated with poor long-term outcome. Eplerenone induced a moderately more frequent early decline in eGFR, which did not affect its clinical benefit on cardiovascular outcomes.

UI  - 22102488
TI  - Threshold level of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol for the short-term benefit of statin therapy in the acute phase of myocardial infarction.
AB  - The beneficial effects of statin therapy seem to vanish when LDL-C is below a certain level in AMI patients.

UI  - 22088858
TI  - [Effects of different statins, ezetimibe/simvastatin combination on hsCRP levels in unstable angina pectoris and non-ST elevation myocardial infarction patients: a randomized trial].
AB  - This study showed that ezetimibe/simvastatin 10 mg/day combination treatment was superior to atorvastatin 20 mg/day and rosuvastatin 10 mg/day treatment in reducing the inflammatory markers when high dose statins was started in the early period of unstable angina and non ST elevation myocardial infarction.

UI  - 22088520
TI  - Comparison of tirofiban combined with dalteparin or unfractionated heparin in primary percutaneous coronary intervention of acute ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction patients.
AB  - Dalteparin was effective and safe in primary PCI of STEMI patients and combined dalteparin with tirofiban was effective and safe without significant bleeding complications compared with UFH. Although there was no statistically significant difference, LMWH decreased the bleeding complications compared with UFH.

UI  - 22080794
TI  - Full coverage for preventive medications after myocardial infarction.
AB  - The elimination of copayments for drugs prescribed after myocardial infarction did not significantly reduce rates of the trial's primary outcome. Enhanced prescription coverage improved medication adherence and rates of first major vascular events and decreased patient spending without increasing overall health costs. (Funded by Aetna and the Commonwealth Fund; MI FREEE ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00566774.).

UI  - 22078393
TI  - Comparison of bleeding complications and one-year survival of low molecular weight heparin versus unfractioned heparin for acute myocardial infarction in elderly patients. The FAST-MI registry.
AB  - The present data show that in elderly patients admitted for AMI, use of LMWH is associated with less bleeding, less need for transfusion, and higher survival, compared with the use of UFH.

UI  - 22078221
TI  - Comparison of incidence of bleeding and mortality of men versus women with ST-elevation myocardial infarction treated with fibrinolysis.
AB  - Gender-related differences in the incidence of bleeding and its relation to subsequent mortality in patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) treated with fibrinolysis are not well understood. We studied patients with STEMI receiving fibrinolysis enrolled in 6 clinical trials. Outcomes included moderate or severe bleeding defined using Global Utilization of Strategies to Open Occluded Arteries (GUSTO) criteria and adjusted 1-year mortality (excluding deaths in first 24 hours). Moderate or severe bleeding was 1.9-fold higher in women compared to men (13.3% vs 7.1%, p <0.0001). Bleeding remained higher in women even after adjustment for baseline differences (odd ratios 1.52, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.42 to 1.62). In fact, female gender was second most important prognostic factor (Wald chi-square 153.6) after older age (Wald chi-square 241.2) in the multivariable bleeding model. Overall 1-year mortality was similar in women and men after adjusting for prognostically important baseline differences (hazard ratio [HR] 1.06, 95% CI 0.97 to 1.17). However, after adjustment for baseline confounders and bleeding, female gender was associated with a lower risk of 1-year death. Thus, adjusted 1-year mortality was similar in women compared to men without bleeding (HR 1.08, 95% CI 0.97 to 1.19) but lower in women compared to men with bleeding (HR 0.85, 95% CI 0.73 to 0.98, p for interaction of gender by bleeding = 0.0016). The highest adjusted 1-year mortality was observed in men with bleeding (HR 2.42, 95% CI 2.20 to 2.66) followed by women with bleeding (HR 2.05, 95% CI 1.80 to 2.33) and women without bleeding (HR 1.08, 95% CI 0.97 to 1.19, referent men without bleeding). In conclusion, in patients with fibrinolytic-treated STEMI, women had a higher incidence but lower mortality with bleeding than men. These data highlight the importance of understanding factors associated with gender-related differences in bleeding and represent an opportunity for improving outcomes of women and men with fibrinolytic-treated STEMI.

UI  - 22077909
TI  - Abciximab and heparin versus bivalirudin for non-ST-elevation myocardial infarction.
AB  - Abciximab and unfractionated heparin, as compared with bivalirudin, failed to reduce the rate of the primary end point and increased the risk of bleeding among patients with non-ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction who were undergoing PCI. (Funded by Nycomed Pharma and others; ISAR-REACT 4 ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00373451.).

UI  - 22067476
TI  - Effect of additional treatment with EXenatide in patients with an Acute Myocardial Infarction (EXAMI): study protocol for a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT01254123.

UI  - 22062892
TI  - Comparison between zotarolimus-eluting stents and first generation drug-eluting stents in the treatment of patients with acute ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction.
AB  - In the treatment of STEMI patients, ZES showed similar and acceptable efficacy compared to first-generation DES (SES and PES) up to 2 years. In addition, ZES seems to be more favorable than PES in terms of safety.

UI  - 22027793
TI  - [Rosuvastatin improves myocardial function and arteriosclerosis plaque in patients with ST-segment elevation after acute myocardial infarction and percutaneous coronary intervention].
AB  - Rosuvastatin therapy in addition to conventional medications can significantly reduce IMT and improve the functions of the surviving myocardium in patients with STEMI after PCI.

UI  - 22027083
TI  - Right and left bundle branch block as predictors of long-term mortality following myocardial infarction.
AB  - Right BBB was a predictor of increased mortality in patients with reduced LV systolic function, whereas LBBB was a marker of increased mortality in patients with preserved LV systolic function.

UI  - 22015616
TI  - Platelet inhibition and GP IIb/IIIa receptor occupancy by intracoronary versus intravenous bolus administration of abciximab in patients with ST-elevation myocardial infarction.
AB  - Acutely, direct intracoronary bolus injection resulted in a more pronounced local inhibition of platelet function and a higher degree of GP IIb/IIIa receptor occupancy as compared to standard intravenous bolus injection.

UI  - 21982310
TI  - Benefit of early statin therapy in patients with acute myocardial infarction who have extremely low low-density lipoprotein cholesterol.
AB  - Statin therapy in patients with AMI with LDL-C levels below 70 mg/dl was associated with improved clinical outcome.

UI  - 21974926
TI  - Effects of home-based rehabilitation on health-related quality of life and psychological status in Chinese patients recovering from acute myocardial infarction.
AB  - A simple, home-based cardiac rehabilitation program for patients with acute myocardial infarction, using a self-help manual, improves health-related quality of life and reduces anxiety. It appears feasible and acceptable, and does not produce inferior outcomes compared with usualcare in China.

UI  - 21972404
TI  - CYP2C19 but not PON1 genetic variants influence clopidogrel pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, and clinical efficacy in post-myocardial infarction patients.
AB  - Our study does not confirm that PON1 Q192R or L55M can influence clopidogrel pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics in post-MI patients.

UI  - 21965526
TI  - Left ventricular systolic and diastolic function, remodelling, and clinical outcomes among patients with diabetes following myocardial infarction and the influence of direct renin inhibition with aliskiren.
AB  - Compared with non-diabetic patients, diabetic patients are at increased risk of CV events post-MI despite no greater LV enlargement or reduction in systolic function. Diabetic patients demonstrate greater concentric remodelling and evidence of higher LV filling pressure, suggesting diastolic dysfunction as a potential mechanism for the higher risk observed among these patients.

UI  - 21958886
TI  - Outcome comparison of 600- and 300-mg loading doses of clopidogrel in patients undergoing primary percutaneous coronary intervention for ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction: results from the ARMYDA-6 MI (Antiplatelet therapy for Reduction of MYocardial Damage during Angioplasty-Myocardial Infarction) randomized study.
AB  - In STEMI patients, pre-treatment with a 600-mg clopidogrel loading dose before primary PCI was associated with a reduction of the infarct size compared with a 300-mg loading dose, as well as with improvement of angiographic results, residual cardiac function, and 30-day major adverse cardiovascular events; further studies are warranted to evaluate impact of such strategy on survival.

UI  - 21957774
TI  - [FARIM - FARmakoterapie po Infarktu Myokardu (Post-Myocardial Infarction Pharmacotherapy Study)].
AB  - A total of 2,500 patients with an anamnesis of myocardial infarction at least 1 month prior to inclusion in the study who visited a general practitioner or an internal medicine or cardiology specialist were examined. Through an internet-based portal, physicians entered patient data, their complaints, treatment, blood pressure, heart rate and main biochemical parameters. There were more men (1 787 vs. 713) and patients under 70 years of age (1 491 vs. 1 009) in the cohort. Eighteen percent of patients had more than one MI. Mean age at the first infarction was 59.2 years in men and 64.9 in women (p < 0.001). NYHA breathlessness category higher than II was reported by 13.0% of patients only, 57.2% of patients reported they never had chest pain following an MI. Hypertension was the most frequent co-morbidity (84%). The mean blood pressure was 132/79 mmHg with no difference between men and women, the mean heart rate was 68/min, the mean cholesterol level was 4.55 mmol/l. 66% of patients had been prescribed all recommended pharmacotherapeutic groups according to guidelines (RAAS blockers, beta-blockers, statins, antiaggregation agents) and each group individually was used in > 90% of patients. There were no differences between men and women and older and younger patients. ACE inhibitors and statins were not always prescribed in recommended (high) doses. Ramipril and perindopril were the most frequently prescribed ACE inhibitors and atorvastatin the most frequently prescribed statin. There was a high level of compliance when it came to achieving the target blood pressure and heart rate values as well as to prescribing of the recommended drug groups. However, renin-angiotensin system-blocking agents and statins are not being prescribed in sufficiently high doses and this should be improved.

UI  - 21940729
TI  - Aldosterone and cortisol predict medium-term left ventricular remodelling following myocardial infarction.
AB  - Aldosterone and cortisol are associated with medium-term LV remodelling when measured early after AMI. The beneficial effects of MR antagonism may relate to blockade of both aldosterone- and cortisol-induced MR activation.

UI  - 21940058
TI  - Beneficial effects of intracoronary tirofiban bolus administration following upstream intravenous treatment in patients with ST-elevation myocardial infarction undergoing primary percutaneous coronary intervention: the ICT-AMI study.
AB  - An additional intracoronary tirofiban bolus administration following upstream intravenous treatment reduces coronary circulatory platelet activation and inflammatory process, and significantly improves myocardial reperfusion and left ventricular function as well as 6-month MACE-free survival for STEMI patients undergoing primary PCI.

UI  - 21924809
TI  - [Aldosterone receptor antagonist use after myocardial infarction. Data from the REICIAM registry].
AB  - The use of aldosterone antagonists in post-acute myocardial infarction is only 54.8% of the optimal candidates. Their use is associated with male sex, a higher risk profile, and the use of diuretics and other drugs of proven efficacy in secondary prevention.

UI  - 21918510
TI  - Effect of paraoxonase-1 polymorphism on clinical outcomes in patients treated with clopidogrel after an acute myocardial infarction.
AB  - Paraoxonase-1 (PON1) Q192R polymorphism was recently suggested to determine per se clopidogrel response on major cardiovascular events (MACEs). We assessed the impact of PON1, CYP2C19, and ABCB1 polymorphisms on MACE in clopidogrel-treated acute myocardial infarction (AMI) patients (N = 2,210), including those undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) (n = 1,538). PON1 polymorphism was not associated with increased risk of in-hospital death and MACEs at 1 year (adjusted hazard ratio (HR) 1.03, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.66-1.61 and adjusted HR 0.77, 95% CI 0.42-1.41 for QQ versus RR in all and PCI patients, respectively). The presence of two CYP2C19 loss-of-function (LOF) alleles was associated with the risk of in-hospital death and MACEs at 1 year in the overall population (adjusted odds ratio (OR) 3.67, 95% CI 1.05-12.80 and adjusted HR 1.96, 95% CI 1.08-3.54) and in PCI patients (adjusted OR 6.87, 95% CI 2.52-18.72 and adjusted HR 3.06, 95% CI 1.47-6.41). Unlike CYP2C19 polymorphism, PON1 (Q192R) polymorphism is not a major pharmacogenetic contributor of clinical response to clopidogrel in AMI patients.

UI  - 21890083
TI  - Long-term safety and efficacy of Pitavastatin in patients with acute myocardial infarction (from the Livalo Acute Myocardial Infarction Study [LAMIS]).
AB  - Pitavastatin is a potent lipophilic statin and may play an important role in acute myocardial infarction (AMI) but there have been limited data on the safety and efficacy of pitavastatin in AMI. This study consisted of 1,039 consecutive patients with AMI (74.0% men, mean age 61.4  12.6 years) who presented in 10 major percutaneous coronary intervention centers in Korea from February 2007 through September 2009. Pitavastatin 2 mg/day was routinely administered in patients with AMI from time of presentation. We investigated changes of lipid profiles, biochemical markers, adverse events, and clinical outcomes up to 12 months. During the study 318 events overall occurred in 220 patients (21.2%) who reported 1 treatment emergent adverse event, although 20 events in 14 patients (1.4%) were treatment-related adverse events. Low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol percent change was -25.6% and LDL cholesterol target attainment was 70.5% at 12-month follow-up. Levels of creatinine phosphokinase, serum glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase, glutamic pyruvic transaminase, and high-sensitivity C-reactive protein decreased significantly during the first 1 month of pitavastatin treatment and were sustained to 12-month follow-up. Major adverse cardiac events occurred in 66 patients (7.3%). All-cause deaths occurred in 32 patients (3.5%) including 19 (2.1%) cardiac deaths and recurrent MIs occurred in 14 (1.6%) and target lesion revascularizations in 42 (4.7%). In conclusion, administration of pitavastatin 2 mg/day in patients with AMI showed 70.5% LDL cholesterol target attainment with good tolerance and was associated with favorable clinical outcomes up to 12 months.

UI  - 21884018
TI  - Efficacy of a new accelerated streptokinase regime in acute myocardial infarction: a double blind randomized clinical trial.
AB  - The accelerated SK infusion regimen of 1.5 MU in 20 min is safe and well tolerated with significantly faster and higher clinical reperfusion rates, more preserved LV systolic function, less atrial and ventricular sustained arrhythmias, and less in-hospital and 1 year mortality rates in acute STEMI.

UI  - 21875913
TI  - Platelet reactivity and cardiovascular outcomes after percutaneous coronary intervention: a time-dependent analysis of the Gauging Responsiveness with a VerifyNow P2Y12 assay: Impact on Thrombosis and Safety (GRAVITAS) trial.
AB  - In the GRAVITAS trial, achievement of on-clopidogrel reactivity <208 P2Y12 reaction units at 12 to 24 hours after percutaneous coronary intervention or during follow-up was associated with a lower risk for cardiovascular events. The efficacy of an individualized strategy to target a level of OTR below this threshold merits investigation. Clinical Trial Registration- http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00645918.

UI  - 21864917
TI  - Three-year follow-up of the MULTIcentre evaluation of Single high-dose Bolus TiRofiban versus Abciximab with Sirolimus-eluting STEnt or Bare-Metal Stent in Acute Myocardial Infarction StudY (MULTISTRATEGY).
AB  - The 3-year follow-up of MULTISTRATEGY demonstrated comparable outcomes with HDB Tirofiban or abciximab and a sustained efficacy of SES to reduce reintervention with no difference in death, repeat MI or ST.

UI  - 21856681
TI  - The prognostic meaning of the full spectrum of aVR ST-segment changes in acute myocardial infarction.
AB  - There is a U-shaped relationship between 30-day mortality and aVR ST level in patients presenting with anterior but not inferior ST elevation MI.

UI  - 21851942
TI  - Differences in the mode of presentation for acute coronary syndrome by pre-hospitalization medication, in relation to coronary risk factors, East-Osaka acute coronary syndrome (EACS) registry.
AB  - Depending on their coronary risk factors, pre-hospitalization medication with aspirin, nitrates or statins was associated with a different presentation and evolution of ACS.

UI  - 21851902
TI  - The pre-hospital fibrinolysis experience in Europe and North America and implications for wider dissemination.
AB  - Combining formal protocols for PHL for some patients with direct transportation of others to a percutaneous coronary intervention hospital for primary percutaneous coronary intervention would allow for tailored reperfusion therapy for patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction. Insights from a variety of international settings may promote widespread use of PHL and increase timely coronary reperfusion worldwide.

UI  - 21787902
TI  - N-terminal pro B-type natriuretic peptide in the early evaluation of suspected acute myocardial infarction.
AB  - Use of NT-proBNP improves the early diagnosis and risk stratification of patients with suspected acute myocardial infarction.

UI  - 21775111
TI  - Impact of overweight and obesity on cardiac benefit of antihypertensive treatment.
AB  - In hypertensive patients in the LIFE study, increased BMI was associated with less reduction of LV hypertrophy and less improvement in LV systolic function which may contribute to the observed higher cardiovascular event rate of treated hypertensive patients.

UI  - 21764662
TI  - Higher efficacy of pre-hospital tirofiban with longer pre-treatment time to primary PCI: protection for the negative impact of time delay.
AB  - Longer time delay before primary PCI is associated with increased mortality. Pre-treatment with high dose tirofiban, however, may compensate for this negative effect by improving ST-segment resolution and initial patency and by reducing mortality. Further studies should be performed to confirm that this is an attractive therapy for patients with longer delays to reperfusion.

UI  - 21726837
TI  - Comparison of efficacy and safety of a standard versus a loading dose of clopidogrel for acute myocardial infarction in patients  75 years of age (from the FAST-MI registry).
AB  - Data are lacking on the efficacy and safety of a loading dose (LD) of clopidogrel in elderly patients with acute myocardial infarction (AMI). FAST-MI is a nationwide registry that was carried out over a 1-month period in 2005 and included consecutive patients with AMI admitted to intensive care units <48 hours from symptom onset in 223 participating centers. We assessed the impact of a clopidogrel LD (300 mg) compared to a conventional dose (<300 mg) on bleeding, need for blood transfusion, and 30-day and 12-month survivals in 791 elderly patients (75 years old, mean age 81  4 years, 48% women, 35% with ST-segment elevation MI) included in this registry. Fifty-nine percent (466 patients) received a clopidogrel LD. Follow-up was >99% complete. Major bleeding and blood transfusions were not significantly different in patients who received a clopidogrel LD (3.2% vs 3.7%, p = 0.72; 5.4% vs 6.2%, p = 0.64, respectively). Early mortality was also not significantly different (10.1 vs 10.8, p = 0.76). Using multivariate analyses, clopidogrel LD did not significantly affect major bleeding or transfusion (odds ratio 1.03, 95% confidence interval 0.49 to 2.17, p = 0.94) and 12-month mortality (hazard ratio 1.00, 95% confidence interval 0.72 to 1.40, p = 0.98). In conclusion, the present data showed that in elderly patients admitted for AMI, use of a LD of clopidogrel compared to a conventional dose was not associated with increased in-hospital bleeding, need for transfusion, or mortality. Large-scale randomized trials are still needed to identify the optimal LD of clopidogrel for elderly patients admitted for AMI.

UI  - 21724623
TI  - Pegnivacogin results in near complete FIX inhibition in acute coronary syndrome patients: RADAR pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic substudy.
AB  - Pegnivacogin administered at a weight-adjusted dose of 1 mg/kg consistently achieves a high level of factor IX activity inhibition among patients with ACS and provides stable anticoagulation during cardiac catheterization. These findings support the dose of pegnivacogin selected for the RADAR study.

UI  - 21712524
TI  - Long-term follow-up of early versus delayed invasive approach after fibrinolysis in acute myocardial infarction.
AB  - Early PCI after fibrinolysis improves long-term event-free survival compared with a delayed PCI treatment strategy.

UI  - 21709065
TI  - Ticagrelor compared with clopidogrel by geographic region in the Platelet Inhibition and Patient Outcomes (PLATO) trial.
AB  - URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00391872.

UI  - 21700245
TI  - Randomized comparison of pre-hospital-initiated facilitated percutaneous coronary intervention versus primary percutaneous coronary intervention in acute myocardial infarction very early after symptom onset: the LIPSIA-STEMI trial (Leipzig immediate prehospital facilitated angioplasty in ST-segment myocardial infarction).
AB  - In STEMI patients presenting early after symptom onset with relatively long transfer times, a fibrinolytic-based facilitated PCI approach with optimal antiplatelet comedication does not offer a benefit over primary PCI with respect to infarct size and tissue perfusion. ([LIPSIA-STEMI] The Leipzig Immediate Prehospital Facilitated Angioplasty in ST-Segment Myocardial Infarction; NCT00359918).

UI  - 21670539
TI  - Effect of pretreatment with pioglitazone on reperfusion injury in diabetic patients with acute myocardial infarction.
AB  - Pretreatment with PIO in diabetic patients with AMI resulted in better myocardial perfusion with less reperfusion injury.

UI  - 21641362
TI  - Assessment of adiponectin and the risk of recurrent cardiovascular events in patients presenting with an acute coronary syndrome: observations from the Pravastatin Or atorVastatin Evaluation and Infection Trial-Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction 22 (PROVE IT-TIMI 22).
AB  - Higher adiponectin concentrations early after ACS are independently associated with a higher risk of recurrent cardiovascular events. This finding is directionally opposite to that observed in patients at risk for atherosclerosis and reveals the need for investigation to elucidate differences in the pathobiology of adiponectin in stable versus unstable coronary artery disease.

UI  - 21619382
TI  - ACE inhibition modulates endothelial apoptosis and renewal via endothelial progenitor cells in patients with acute coronary syndromes.
AB  - Our results indicate that perindopril, but not valsartan, reduces the proapoptotic effect of serum on the endothelium and increases endothelial renewal in patients with acute coronary syndromes.

UI  - 21606391
TI  - Predictors of bleeding and time dependence of association of bleeding with mortality: insights from the Trial to Assess Improvement in Therapeutic Outcomes by Optimizing Platelet Inhibition With Prasugrel--Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction 38 (TRITON-TIMI 38).
AB  - http://www.clinicaltrial.gov. Unique identifier NCT00097591.

UI  - 21594830
TI  - Predictors of infarct-related artery patency following combined lytic therapy in patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction treated with immediate percutaneous coronary intervention.
AB  - Angiographic (anatomical) IRA parameter as distance from CLMLD point to nearest proximal side branch may influence the efficacy of combined fibrinolytic therapy before PCI despite the similar clinical characteristics and time delay to angiography. Smoking has a paradoxical beneficial effect on combined thrombolytic therapy effectiveness.

UI  - 21591581
TI  - Lack of beneficial effects of granulocyte colony-stimulating factor in patients with subacute myocardial infarction undergoing late revascularization: a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial.
AB  - G-CSF administration is safe, but not effective, in improving impaired LV functional parameters in patients with subacute MI who had an impaired baseline EF of less than 45%.

UI  - 21576828
TI  - Secondary preventive effects of a calcium antagonist for ischemic heart attack: randomized parallel comparison with -blockers.
AB  - CCA treatment was found to be as effective as BB in reducing cardiovascular events in post-MI patients.

UI  - 21570515
TI  - Treatment and outcomes in patients with myocardial infarction treated with acute -blocker therapy: results from the American College of Cardiology's NCDR().
AB  - Risk factors for shock are common in STEMI and NSTEMI patients treated with early BBs. Increasing numbers of risk factors were associated with increased risk for shock or death in patients treated with BBs. These results are consistent with current recommendations for avoiding early BB treatment for patients with acute MI.

UI  - 21570509
TI  - Rationale and design of the Anti-Xa therapy to lower cardiovascular events in addition to standard therapy in subjects with acute coronary syndrome-thrombolysis in myocardial infarction 51 (ATLAS-ACS 2 TIMI 51) trial: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of rivaroxaban in subjects with acute coronary syndrome.
AB  - The ATLAS-ACS 2 TIMI 51 is testing the hypothesis that anticoagulation with the oral factor Xa inhibitor rivaroxaban reduces cardiovascular death, MI, and stroke among patients with ACS treated with guideline-based therapies for ACS.

UI  - 21562004
TI  - Proton pump inhibitor use and risk of adverse cardiovascular events in aspirin treated patients with first time myocardial infarction: nationwide propensity score matched study.
AB  - The risk of the combined end point of cardiovascular death, myocardial infarction, or stroke associated with use of proton pump inhibitors was analysed using Kaplan-Meier analysis, Cox proportional hazard models, and propensity score matched Cox proportional hazard models. Results 3366 of 19,925 (16.9%) aspirin treated patients experienced recurrent myocardial infarction, stroke, or cardiovascular death. The hazard ratio for the combined end point in patients receiving proton pump inhibitors based on the time dependent Cox proportional hazard model was 1.46 (1.33 to 1.61; P<0.001) and for the propensity score matched model based on 8318 patients it was 1.61 (1.45 to 1.79; P<0.001). A sensitivity analysis showed no increase in risk related to use of H(2) receptor blockers (1.04, 0.79 to 1.38; P=0.78). Conclusion In aspirin treated patients with first time myocardial infarction, treatment with proton pump inhibitors was associated with an increased risk of adverse cardiovascular events.

UI  - 21558517
TI  - Intravenous erythropoietin in patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction: REVEAL: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00378352.

UI  - 21554269
TI  - Plasma sodium and mortality risk in patients with myocardial infarction and a low LVEF.
AB  - Hyponatremia and plasma concentrations of sodium are associated with long-term mortality risk in patients with MI complicated by left ventricular systolic dysfunction. Importantly, these associations are independent of renal function and use of diuretics. Whether the associations between plasma sodium or hyponatremia and long-term mortality risk reflect a causation or merely the severity of the underlying cardiac disease remains to be clarified.

UI  - 21551462
TI  - Dabigatran vs. placebo in patients with acute coronary syndromes on dual antiplatelet therapy: a randomized, double-blind, phase II trial.
AB  - Dabigatran, in addition to dual antiplatelet therapy, was associated with a dose-dependent increase in bleeding events and significantly reduced coagulation activity in patients with a recent myocardial infarction.

UI  - 21526919
TI  - Routine upfront abciximab versus standard periprocedural therapy in patients undergoing primary percutaneous coronary intervention for cardiogenic shock: The PRAGUE-7 Study. An open randomized multicentre study.
AB  - This study did not show any benefit from routine pre-procedural abciximab when compared with a selective abciximab use during the intervention in patients with cardiogenic shock undergoing primary PCI. However, small sample size of the trial preclude any definitive conclusion, a larger prospective, randomized, multicentered trial is needed.

UI  - 21523892
TI  - Intracoronary bolus-only compared with intravenous bolus plus infusion of tirofiban application in patients with ST-elevation myocardial infarction undergoing primary percutaneous coronary intervention.
AB  - The standard intravenous bolus plus maintenance infusion of tirofiban in p-PCI is not superior to intracoronary bolus-only administration with respect to microvascular perfusion. Further, adequately powered randomized trials are warranted to evaluate the clinical outcomes associated with this strategy.

UI  - 21464720
TI  - Omeprazole, but not pantoprazole, reduces the antiplatelet effect of clopidogrel: a randomized clinical crossover trial in patients after myocardial infarction evaluating the clopidogrel-PPIs drug interaction.
AB  - In this randomized crossover study analyzing patients after acute myocardial infarction, omeprazole coadministration showed a significant pharmacodynamic interaction with clopidogrel, whereas pantoprazole did not. These data suggest that the clopidogrel-PPIs drug interaction may not be a class effect.

UI  - 21450674
TI  - LDL cholesterol goals and cardiovascular risk during statin treatment: the IDEAL study.
AB  - More CVD patients treated with atorvastatin than simvastatin achieved either LDL-C goal and those reaching the 2.0 mmol/l goal exhibited significantly less CVD than those only reaching 2.5 mmol/l. In those reaching the 2.0 mmol/l goal, the apoB/A1 ratio still bears a relation to CVD outcome. The use of apoB/A1 ratio may provide additional predictive value to that of LDL-C.

UI  - 21447661
TI  - A decrease in glucose variability does not reduce cardiovascular event rates in type 2 diabetic patients after acute myocardial infarction: a reanalysis of the HEART2D study.
AB  - A PRANDIAL strategy demonstrated lower intraday GV vs. a BASAL strategy with similar overall glycemic control but did not result in a reduction in cardiovascular outcomes. This does not support the hypothesis that targeting GV would be beneficial in reducing subsequent secondary cardiovascular events.

UI  - 21441163
TI  - Preserved or slightly depressed ejection fraction and outcomes after myocardial infarction.
AB  - BACKGROUND Left ventricular ejection fraction (EF) in post-myocardial infarction (MI) patients is a strong predictor of adverse cardiovascular events. Although resting EF as measured by transthoracic echocardiography (TTE), contrast ventriculography (CNV), and radionuclide angiography (RNA) exhibit high correlation, there is only modest agreement between these modalities. This study sought to explore whether modality of EF assessment influences prognostication of post-MI patients with normal or slightly reduced EF. METHODS AND RESULTS The National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (NHLBI) limited access dataset of the Prevention of Events with Angiotensin Converting Enzyme Inhibition (PEACE) Trial (1996-2003, n=8290) comparing trandolapril versus placebo was used. The cohort was partitioned into TTE (n=2582), RNA (n=816), and CNV (n=1155) groups based on modality of EF assessment. EF was a significant predictor of cardiovascular mortality (HR 0.97, 95% CI 0.95 to 0.98; p<0.005) and all cause mortality (HR 0.98, 95% CI 0.97 to 0.99; p=0.0002) on multivariate analysis in this population with preserved or mildly depressed EF. Although CNV, TTE, and RNA groups differed significantly in terms of baseline variables, no appreciable differences were noted between RNA (HR 1.13, 95% CI 0.85 to 1.50; ns) and CNV (HR 1.13, 95% CI 0.99 to 1.27; ns) groups, compared with TTE for all cause mortality. Similarly, no significant differences were observed for cardiovascular mortality between RNA (HR 1.23, 95% CI 0.82 to 1.84; p=0.31) and CNV (HR 1.14, 95% CI 0.78 to 1.67, p=0.49) versus TTE. CONCLUSION EF is a significant predictor of all-cause mortality and cardiovascular mortality in patients with preserved or mildly depressed EF. Modalities of EF measurement are interchangeable and do not play a significant role in prognostication in a post-MI population.

UI  - 21392619
TI  - The Occluded Artery Trial (OAT) Viability Ancillary Study (OAT-NUC): influence of infarct zone viability on left ventricular remodeling after percutaneous coronary intervention versus optimal medical therapy alone.
AB  - In the contemporary era of MED, PCI of the infarct-related artery compared with MED alone does not impact LV remodeling irrespective of IZ viability.

UI  - 21372302
TI  - Timing and dose of statin therapy define its impact on inflammatory and endothelial responses during myocardial infarction.
AB  - This study demonstrates that the timing and potency of statin treatment during MI are key elements for their main mechanisms of benefit. Clinical Trial Registration- URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00906451.

UI  - 21357827
TI  - Cardiovascular and renal outcomes with telmisartan, ramipril, or both in people at high renal risk: results from the ONTARGET and TRANSCEND studies.
AB  - URL: http://clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00153101.

UI  - 21349594
TI  - Effect of intensive lipid-lowering treatment compared to moderate lipid-lowering treatment with rosuvastatin on endothelial function in high risk patients.
AB  - In the present study treatment of statin-naive STEMI patients with high-dose rosuvastatin for 12 months resulted in a significant increase in endothelium-dependent FMD of the brachial artery whereas no significant change was seen in the low-dose rosuvastatin group (Clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT01223625).

UI  - 21341460
TI  - [Affective disorders in acute myocardial infarction and possibilities of their correction with tianeptin].
AB  - Affective spectrum disorders are most common in myocardial infarction (MI). The use of the MRIP screening questionnaire favors a more adequate diagnosis of depressive spectrum disorders in patients with AMI. Tianeptin therapy for AD concurrent with MI causes an evident reduction in psychopathological symptomatology and a statistically significant decrease in HDRS and HARS scores.

UI  - 21324428
TI  - In-hospital major bleeding during ST-elevation and non-ST-elevation myocardial infarction care: derivation and validation of a model from the ACTION Registry-GWTG.
AB  - Bleeding, a common complication of acute myocardial infarction (AMI) treatment, is associated with worse outcomes. A contemporary model for major bleeding associated with AMI treatment can stratify patients at elevated risk for bleeding and is needed to risk-adjust AMI practice and outcomes. Using the Acute Coronary Treatment and Intervention Outcomes Network Registry-Get With the Guidelines (ACTION Registry-GWTG) database, an in-hospital major bleeding risk model was developed in a population of patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction and non-ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction. The model used only baseline variables and was developed (n = 72,313) and validated (n = 17,960) in patients with AMI (at 251 United States centers from January 2007 to December 2008). The 12 most statistically and clinically significant variables were incorporated into the final regression model. The calibration plots are shown, and the model discrimination is demonstrated in derivation and validation cohorts, as well as across key subgroups. The rate of major bleeding in the overall population was 10.8%. The 12 factors associated with major bleeding in the model were heart rate, baseline hemoglobin, female gender, baseline serum creatinine, age, electrocardiographic changes, heart failure or shock, diabetes, peripheral artery disease, body weight, systolic blood pressure, and home warfarin use. The risk model discriminated well in the derivation (C-statistic = 0.73) and validation (C-statistic = 0.71) cohorts. A risk score for major bleeding corresponded well with observed bleeding: very low risk (3.9%), low risk (7.3%), moderate risk (16.1%), high risk (29.0%), and very high risk (39.8%). In conclusion, the ACTION Registry-GWTG in-hospital major bleeding model stratifies risk for major bleeding using variables at presentation and enables risk-adjusted bleeding outcomes for quality improvement initiatives and clinical decision making.

UI  - 21318582
TI  - Impact of reduced glomerular filtration rate on outcomes in patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction undergoing fibrinolysis: a CLARITY-TIMI 28 analysis.
AB  - Reduced glomerular filtration rate (GFR) is associated with adverse outcomes in patients with cardiovascular disease. We explored the relationship between GFR and angiographic and clinical outcomes in ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) patients receiving pharamacologic reperfusion, with or without clopidogrel. Data were available to estimate GFR in 3,252 STEMI patients undergoing fibrinolysis, randomized to clopidogrel versus placebo in the CLARITY-TIMI 28 trial. Patients with a creatinine > 2.5 mg/dl were excluded from the trial. We compared outcomes between patients with no, mild or moderate reductions in baseline estimated GFR (ml/min/1.73 m) of  90, 60-89, and <60, respectively. Compared to patients with no (n = 841) or mildly reduced GFR (n = 1897), those with moderately reduced GFR (n = 514) were older, more often female, and were more likely to have diabetes and hypertension (P  0.001 for all). The risk of the primary endpoint (an occluded infarct-related artery on angiography or death/myocardial infarction by day 8), 30 day cardiovascular events (death, myocardial infarction, or urgent revascularization for recurrent ischemia) and 30 day Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction (TIMI) major or minor bleeding increased as GFR declined (P for trend 0.003, <0.0001, and 0.0008 respectively). The adjusted risk of 30 day ischemic complications remained higher in patients with moderately reduced versus normal GFR (OR 1.5, 95% CI 1.0-2.1, P = 0.04). Treatment with clopidogrel tended to yield greater benefit in patients with normal or mildly reduced GFR versus in patients with moderately reduced GFR. In conclusion, STEMI patients with reduced GFR treated with medical reperfusion, including dual antiplatelet therapy, have higher rates of adverse clinical outcome. Further research on optimal STEMI therapy in this high-risk group is warranted.

UI  - 21317148
TI  - Effect of the direct renin inhibitor aliskiren on left ventricular remodelling following myocardial infarction with systolic dysfunction.
AB  - Adding the direct renin inhibitor aliskiren to the standard therapy, including an inhibitor of the RAAS, in high-risk post-MI patients did not result in further attenuation of left ventricular remodelling, and was associated with more adverse effects. These findings do not suggest that dual RAAS blockade with aliskiren would provide additional benefit in these high-risk post-MI patients.

UI  - 21297491
TI  - Effect of oral atorvastatin on CD4+CD25+ regulatory T cells, FoxP3 expression, and prognosis in patients with ST-segment elevated myocardial infarction before primary percutaneous coronary intervention.
AB  - : The inhibition of CD4+CD25+ Tregs in patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction could be regulated with atorvastatin given before percutaneous coronary intervention.

UI  - 21255134
TI  - Treatment with an oral direct thrombin inhibitor decreases platelet activity but increases markers of inflammation in patients with myocardial infarction.
AB  - A persistent elevation of platelet activity is found in patients with a recent MI after the cessation of acute antithrombotic treatment, and the addition of an oral DTI at higher doses decreases the activity. By contrast, long-term treatment with a DTI increases the levels of several markers of inflammation. Further studies with prolonged exposure of oral DTIs are needed for evaluation of the effect on inflammatory processes and to determine whether these agents influence clinical outcomes.

UI  - 21232631
TI  - Effects of chronic omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid supplementation on human atrial mechanical function after reversion of atrial arrhythmias to sinus rhythm: reversal of tachycardia-mediated atrial cardiomyopathy with fish oils.
AB  - Chronic fish oil ingestion in humans attenuates atrial mechanical stunning after reversion of atrial arrhythmias to sinus rhythm. This suggests that fish oils may target or even reverse underlying cellular and/or structural remodeling that occurs in response to persistent atrial arrhythmias.

UI  - 21228609
TI  - Antidepressive effect of mirtazapine in post-myocardial infarction depression is associated with soluble TNF-R1 increase: data from the MIND-IT.
AB  - Significant effects on inflammation accompany the therapeutic efficacy of mirtazapine in contrast to the therapeutic efficacy of placebo and the nontherapeutic efficacy of mirtazapine.

UI  - 21220052
TI  - Strategic lessons from the clinical event classification process for the Assessment of Pexelizumab in Acute Myocardial Infarction (APEX-AMI) trial.
AB  - A complementary approach of a computerized assessment and physician review was used in the CEC effort of the APEX-AMI trial. The algorithm categorized approximately one third of suspected CHF/cardiogenic shock events. The APEX-AMI CEC experience shows that an algorithmic approach may be a useful strategy for end point evaluation but requires validation.

UI  - 21211684
TI  - Association of mortality with years of education in patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction treated with fibrinolysis.
AB  - When the number of years of education was used as a measure of SES, there was an inverse relationship such that significantly higher short-term and 1-year mortality existed beyond that accounted for by baseline clinical variables and country of enrollment. Future studies should account for and investigate the mechanisms underlying this link between SES and cardiovascular disease outcomes.

UI  - 21194762
TI  - Risk of bleeding after prehospital administration of high dose tirofiban for ST elevation myocardial infarction.
AB  - Prehospital use of high dose tirofiban is safe and associated with a low risk of bleeding. Age, Killip class >1, IABP use, but not high dose tirofiban are independent determinants of bleeding in STEMI patients. Bleeding is independently associated with 30-day and 1-year mortality.

UI  - 23189874
TI  - Efficacy & safety of tenecteplase in 6000 patients with ST-elevation myocardial infarction from the Elaxim Indian Registry.
AB  - This study confirms the efficacy and safety of indigenous tenecteplase in the management of patients with ST-elevation myocardial infarction.

UI  - 22416440
TI  - [Efficacy of ivabradin in combined treatment of patients with postinfarction systolic chronic cardiac failure].
AB  - In the same trend in BP and ECG, group 1 patients showed significant and more pronounced HR lowering than group 2 patients. Addition of ivabradin to standard treatment of SCCF after MI promoted less frequency of hospitalizations, recurrent non-fatal MI, fatal cardiovascular events. This effect was especially strong in high baseline HR.

UI  - 21159479
TI  - Killip classification in patients with acute coronary syndrome: insight from a multicenter registry.
AB  - The purpose of this study was to assess the prognostic value of the Killip classification at the presentation in patients with acute coronary syndrome (ACS). In 2007 and over 5 months, 6704 consecutive patients with ACS were enrolled in the Gulf Registry of Acute Coronary Events. Patients were categorized according to Killip classification at presentation (Classes I, II, III, and IV). Patients' characteristics and in-hospital outcomes were analyzed. High Killip classes were defined in 22% of patients. In comparison to Killip Class I, patients with higher Killip class had greater prevalence of cardiovascular risk factors, presented late, were less likely to have angina, and were less likely to receive antiplatelet, statins, and -blockers. Classes II, III, and IV were associated with higher adjusted odds of death in ST-elevation myocardial infarction (odds ratio [OR] 2.1, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.25-3.69; OR 6.1, 95% CI 3.41-10.86; and OR 28, 95% CI 15.24-54.70, respectively) and non-ST-elevation acute coronary syndrome (adjusted OR 2.4, 95% CI 1.24-4.82; OR 3.2,95% 1.49-7.02; and OR 9.8, 95% CI 3.79-25.57, respectively). In conclusion, across ACS, patients with higher Killip class had worse clinical profile and were less likely to be treated with evidence-based therapy. High Killip class was independent predictors of mortality in ST-elevation myocardial infarction and non-ST-elevation acute coronary syndrome. Physician in the emergency department should be aware of the importance of clinical examination in the risk stratification in patients presenting with ACS.

UI  - 21146657
TI  - Efficacy and safety of fondaparinux in patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction across the age spectrum. Results from the Organization for the Assessment of Strategies for Ischemic Syndromes 6(OASIS-6) trial.
AB  - The balance of benefits and risks of fondaparinux is consistent across age tertiles, supporting its use across the age spectrum of patients with STEMI who do not undergo primary percutaneous coronary intervention.

UI  - 21095620
TI  - Effects of G-CSF on systemic inflammation, coagulation and platelet activation in patients with acute myocardial infarction.
AB  - Treatment with G-CSF in patients with AMI was associated with enhanced proinflammatory TNF- and CRP levels but no activation of coagulation.

UI  - 21095264
TI  - Design and rationale of the Reduction of Infarct Expansion and Ventricular Remodeling with Erythropoietin after Large Myocardial Infarction (REVEAL) trial.
AB  - The REVEAL trial will evaluate the safety and efficacy of the highest tolerated single dose of epoetin  in patients who have undergone successful rescue or primary percutaneous coronary intervention for acute ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction.

UI  - 21091365
TI  - Long-term effects of Xuezhikang on blood pressure in hypertensive patients with previous myocardial infarction: data from the Chinese Coronary Secondary Prevention Study (CCSPS).
AB  - Several previous trials from Western population studies have showed that statins may help reduce blood pressure (BP). However, randomized clinical data is limited. Xuezhikang, a partially extract of red yeast rice, contains a family of naturally occurring statins, and has a marked impact on lipids, but it is unknown whether Xuezhikang has any effect on BP during long-term follow-up in the Chinese population. This is a post-hoc subgroup analysis of a randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled, parallel group clinical trial, Chinese Coronary Secondary Prevention Study (CCSPS). A total of 2704 hypertensive patients with previous myocardial infarction (MI) were assigned either to placebo (n = 1341) or to Xuezhikang (n = 1363) daily for an average of 4.5 years. The primary outcome was the unadjusted changes in mean arterial pressure (MAP) from baseline to 6 months. We also assessed systolic blood pressure (SBP), diastolic blood pressure (DBP), and pulse pressure. Analysis of covariance was used to calculate the adjusted effects of treatment on changes in these outcomes at 6, 12, 24, and 48 months post-randomization, after controlling for potential confounders. This analysis included 2704/4870 (55.5%) hypertensive patients for whom BP was measured at baseline and at least one follow-up visit after randomization. Median duration of the follow-up was 4.5 years (54 months), and 25 patients (0.92%) were lost to the last follow-up because of adverse effects. The results showed that the unadjusted and adjusted changes in MAP, SBP, DBP, or pulse pressure from baseline were not significantly different for Xuezhikang or placebo recipients at 6, 12, 24, and 48 months after randomization. In this post-hoc subgroup analysis, we failed to demonstrate any significant reducing effects of Xuezhikang on BP in Chinese hypertensive patients with previous MI, suggesting that further prospective study on the effects of statins on BP would be needed, especially in high-risk patients.

UI  - 21060206
TI  - A novel program to accurately quantify infarction volume by (99m)Tc MIBI SPECT, and its application for re-analyzing the effect of erythropoietin administration in patients with acute myocardial infarction.
AB  - The efficacy of EPO was further confirmed by the software.

UI  - 21060071
TI  - OMEGA, a randomized, placebo-controlled trial to test the effect of highly purified omega-3 fatty acids on top of modern guideline-adjusted therapy after myocardial infarction.
AB  - URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00251134.

UI  - 21060068
TI  - What is the optimal blood pressure in patients after acute coronary syndromes?: Relationship of blood pressure and cardiovascular events in the PRavastatin OR atorVastatin Evaluation and Infection Therapy-Thrombolysis In Myocardial Infarction (PROVE IT-TIMI) 22 trial.
AB  - URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00382460.

UI  - 21037469
TI  - Comparison of norepinephrine-dobutamine to epinephrine for hemodynamics, lactate metabolism, and organ function variables in cardiogenic shock. A prospective, randomized pilot study.
AB  - When considering global hemodynamic effects, epinephrine is as effective as norepinephrine-dobutamine. Nevertheless, epinephrine is associated with a transient lactic acidosis, higher heart rate and arrhythmia, and inadequate gastric mucosa perfusion. Thus, the combination norepinephrine-dobutamine appears to be a more reliable and safer strategy.

UI  - 21037250
TI  - Predictors and prognostic impact of recurrent myocardial infarction in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, heart failure, or both following a first myocardial infarction.
AB  - Even in the context of contemporary treatment, a recurrent MI confers a significantly increased risk of death in patients following a high-risk first MI. Strategies aimed at reducing recurrent MI will thus likely prolong survival in post-MI survivors.

UI  - 21035211
TI  - Impact of early abciximab administration on infarct size in patients with ST-elevation myocardial infarction.
AB  - Early abciximab administration did not lead to a smaller IS at 6-month DE-MRI, and was associated with a significant reduction in IS and transmurality only in patients with longer transportation time, warranting further investigation in this patient subset.

UI  - 21034597
TI  - No-reflow protection and long-term efficacy for acute myocardial infarction with Tongxinluo: a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled multicenter clinical trial (ENLEAT Trial).
AB  - Tongxinluo as a kind of traditional Chinese medicine could reduce myocardial no-reflow and infarction area significantly after emergency PCI for STEMI with conventional medicine therapy.

UI  - 20965993
TI  - Impact of early statin therapy on development of atrial fibrillation at the acute stage of myocardial infarction: data from the FAST-MI register.
AB  - This study is the first to document a correlation between early statin therapy and atrial fibrillation at the early stage of acute myocardial infarction.

UI  - 20962338
TI  - High-dose tirofiban pretreatment reduces the need for bail-out study medication in patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction: results of a subgroup analysis of the On-TIME 2 trial.
AB  - Routine prehospital treatment with HDT significantly reduced the use of blinded bail-out study medication. The need for bail-out therapy was associated with a less favourable outcome. This analysis suggests that routine pretreatment is superior to provisional use of HDT in patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction.

UI  - 20952100
TI  - The time dependence of antithrombin initiation in patients with non-ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndromes: subgroup analysis from the ACUITY trial.
AB  - In this study of patients with non-ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndromes who were undergoing an early invasive management strategy, we were unable to demonstrate an association between adverse ischemic outcomes with the timing of antithrombin administration. However, there was an increase in bleeding outcomes as time to antithrombin administration increased.

UI  - 20952099
TI  - Reperfusion is delayed beyond guideline recommendations in patients requiring interhospital helicopter transfer for treatment of ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction.
AB  - In this study, STEMI patients presenting to non-percutaneous coronary intervention facilities who are transferred to a percutaneous coronary intervention-capable hospital by helicopter EMS do not commonly receive fibrinolysis and rarely achieve percutaneous coronary intervention within 90 minutes. In similar settings, primary fibrinolysis should be considered while strategies to reduce the time required for subsequent interventional care are explored.

UI  - 20938039
TI  - A randomized trial of aspirin at clinically relevant doses and nitric oxide formation in humans.
AB  - in high-risk primary prevention patients, aspirin significantly increases markers of NO formation. All doses produce similar increases in HO-1 and decreases in ADMA. The antiplatelet properties of aspirin to irreversibly inhibit platelet dependent cyclooxygenase are sufficient to explain benefits in patients with occlusive vascular diseases. Nonetheless, these data contribute to the formulation of the hypothesis that aspirin has additional beneficial effects mediated through NO formation. Further research, including direct randomized comparisons on atherosclerosis using noninvasive techniques as well as on occlusive vascular disease events, is necessary to test whether this hypothesis has clinical or public health relevance.

UI  - 20934562
TI  - Hormone replacement therapy among postmenopausal women presenting with acute myocardial infarction: insights from the GUSTO-III trial.
AB  - Hormone replacement therapy appears to have no early mortality benefit in women sustaining acute myocardial infarction. These findings further challenge the role of HRT in cardiovascular medicine.

UI  - 20934561
TI  - Does silent myocardial infarction add prognostic value in ST-elevation myocardial infarction patients without a history of prior myocardial infarction? Insights from the Assessment of Pexelizumab in Acute Myocardial Infarction (APEX-AMI) Trial.
AB  - Seven percent of STEMI patients had a silent MI. They represent a novel subgroup at increased risk comparable to those with known prior MI. Hence, in future studies, acquiring baseline Q wave data outside the distribution of acute injury should broaden the prognostic insights from STEMI patients with a prior MI.

UI  - 20934557
TI  - Rationale for an early aldosterone blockade in acute myocardial infarction and design of the ALBATROSS trial.
AB  - ALBATROSS will assess the cardiovascular benefit of a low-cost aldosterone receptor blocker on top of standard therapy in all-coming AMI patients.

UI  - 20934556
TI  - Evaluation of the novel factor Xa inhibitor edoxaban compared with warfarin in patients with atrial fibrillation: design and rationale for the Effective aNticoaGulation with factor xA next GEneration in Atrial Fibrillation-Thrombolysis In Myocardial Infarction study 48 (ENGAGE AF-TIMI 48).
AB  - ENGAGE AF-TIMI 48 is a phase 3 comparison of the novel oral factor Xa inhibitor edoxaban to warfarin for the prevention of thromboembolism in patients with atrial fibrillation.

UI  - 20931096
TI  - Safety and effectiveness of enoxaparin following fibrinolytic therapy: Results of the Acute Myocardial Infarction (AMI)-QUEBEC registry.
AB  - There was no significant difference in the rates of in-hospital adverse events in the ENOX group compared with the UFH group, when used in the real-life context. Larger observational studies may further confirm the safety, effectiveness and optimal duration of the administration of ENOX in unselected STEMI patients treated with fibrinolysis.

UI  - 20930593
TI  - The first clinical pilot study of intravenous adrenomedullin administration in patients with acute myocardial infarction.
AB  - Adrenomedullin (AM) is a 52-amino-acid vasodilator peptide that was originally isolated from human pheochromocytoma. In the previous experimental study with rat ischemia/reperfusion model, AM reduced infarct size and inhibited myocyte apoptosis. AM also suppressed the production of oxygen-free radicals. The present study was designed to evaluate the feasibility of intravenous administration of AM in patients with acute myocardial infarction. We studied 10 patients with first acute myocardial infarction [male to female ratio: 9 to 1, age: 65  9 (mean  SD) years, peak creatine phosphokinase level: 4215  1933 (SD) U/L], who were hospitalized within 12 hours of symptom onset. Proceeding reperfusion therapy, AM infusion was initiated and continued at concentration of 0.0125-0.025 gkgmin for 12 hours. Follow-up coronary angiography and left ventriculography were performed at 3 months. Cardiac magnetic resonance was examined at 1 month and 3 months after AM therapy. During infusion of AM, hemodynamics kept stable except 2 patients. Wall motion index in the infarct area at 3 months was significantly improved compared with that at baseline, and infarct size evaluated by cardiac magnetic resonance was significantly decreased at 3 months. In conclusion, intravenous administration of AM, which possesses a variety of potential cardiovascular protective actions, can be adjunctive to percutaneous coronary intervention.

UI  - 20929341
TI  - n-3 fatty acids and cardiovascular events after myocardial infarction.
AB  - Low-dose supplementation with EPA-DHA or ALA did not significantly reduce the rate of major cardiovascular events among patients who had had a myocardial infarction and who were receiving state-of-the-art antihypertensive, antithrombotic, and lipid-modifying therapy. (Funded by the Netherlands Heart Foundation and others; ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00127452.).

UI  - 20926948
TI  - The effects of spironolactone on atrial remodeling in patients with preserved left ventricular function after an acute myocardial infarction: a randomized follow-up study.
AB  - Additional spironolactone therapy provided a little benefit on LA remodeling and atrial electromechanic properties in patients with AMI and preserved LV functions.

UI  - 20922537
TI  - Effects of telmisartan on markers of ventricular remodeling in patients with acute myocardial infarction: comparison with enalapril.
AB  - Enalapril is effective in the suppression of left ventricular remodeling after acute myocardial infarction (AMI), but the effect of telmisartan is unclear. The consecutive 163 AMI patients underwent primary percutaneous coronary intervention and were randomized to telmisartan (n=82) or enalapril (n=81). Left ventriculography was performed in the acute and chronic (6months) phases. Matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-2 and MMP-9 activities were measured by zymography in the acute (days 1, 7, and 14) and chronic (6months) phases. Plasma pentraxin3 (PTX3), a marker of vascular inflammation, was also measured. There were no adverse effects in the telmisartan group. The analysis of the left ventriculograms in the acute and chronic phases revealed no difference between the two groups. MMP-9 activities at days 7 and 14 and in the chronic phase were decreased compared to that at day 1 in both groups. MMP-2 activity was also decreased in the acute phase, but increased in the chronic phase in both groups. There was no difference in the plasma PTX3 level in the acute phase, but in the chronic phase, PTX3 was significantly lower in telmisartan than in enalapril group (2.61.4 vs. 3.21.6ng/ml, p=0.04). Telmisartan is well tolerated, shows similar effects on the markers of left ventricular remodeling to those of enalapril, and suppresses vascular inflammation more effectively than enalapril in AMI patients. Telmisartan can be an alternative to angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor in patients with AMI.

UI  - 20889993
TI  - Prehospital triple antiplatelet therapy in patients with acute ST elevation myocardial infarction leads to better platelet aggregation inhibition and clinical outcome than dual antiplatelet therapy.
AB  - 60 min of prehospital initiated antiplatelet treatment including high-dose tirofiban resulted in higher levels of IPA compared to pretreatment with acetylsalicylic acid and high-dose clopidogrel alone, even after longer pretreatment times. Levels of IPA were significantly related to ST resolution and MACE, including stent thrombosis. This substudy confirms the main findings of the On-TIME2 trial that clopidogrel alone is suboptimal, even at high dose and administered well in advance of primary PCI.

UI  - 20861135
TI  - Granulocyte colony-stimulating factor attenuates left ventricular remodelling after acute anterior STEMI: results of the single-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled multicentre STem cEll Mobilization in Acute Myocardial Infarction (STEM-AMI) Trial.
AB  - Early G-CSF administration attenuates ventricular remodelling in patients with anterior STEMI and EF 45% after successful PCI.

UI  - 20826250
TI  - beta-Blocker use following myocardial infarction: low prevalence of evidence-based dosing.
AB  - Underdosing of beta-blockers is highly prevalent among patients post-MI. This represents an important opportunity in quality improvement for the care of patients who have suffered an MI.

UI  - 20819587
TI  - Thorombolytic therapy with rescue percutaneous coronary intervention versus primary percutaneous coronary intervention in patients with acute myocardial infarction: a multicenter randomized clinical trial.
AB  - Thrombolytic therapy with rescue PCI was associated with significantly lower rates of coronary patency and TIMI flow grade 3, but with significantly higher rates of mortality, death/MI and hemorrhagic complications at 30 days, as compared with primary PCI in this group of Chinese STEMI patients with late presentation and delayed treatments.

UI  - 20819563
TI  - Influence of granulocyte colony-stimulating factor on cardiac function in patients with acute myocardial infarction and leukopenia after revascularization.
AB  - Mobilization of stem cells by G-CSF after reperfusion of infarct myocardium is safe and seems to offer a pragmatic strategy for recovery of myocardial global function.

UI  - 20817283
TI  - Aborted myocardial infarction in intracoronary compared with standard intravenous abciximab administration in patients undergoing primary percutaneous coronary intervention for ST-elevation myocardial infarction.
AB  - IC bolus application of abciximab in STEMI patients undergoing primary PCI results in a higher incidence of aborted MI and subsequent improved clinical outcome.

UI  - 20737584
TI  - Dipyridamole versus verapamil for treatment of no-reflow during primary angioplasty.
AB  - Dipyridamole is a safe and effective first-line drug for treatment of no-reflow. Dipyridamole can also be successfully used in patients with incomplete response to verapamil.

UI  - 20723849
TI  - Impact of bivalirudin therapy in high-risk patients with acute myocardial infarction: 1-year results from the HORIZONS-AMI (Harmonizing Outcomes with RevasculariZatiON and Stents in Acute Myocardial Infarction) trial.
AB  - In high-risk patients undergoing primary percutaneous coronary intervention for acute myocardial infarction, bivalirudin compared with UFH plus GPI reduces 1-year mortality and recurrent myocardial infarction. (HORIZONS-AMI trial; NCT00433966).

UI  - 20716909
TI  - Oral administration of L-arginine in patients with angina or following myocardial infarction may be protective by increasing plasma superoxide dismutase and total thiols with reduction in serum cholesterol and xanthine oxidase.
AB  - Administration of L-arginine has been shown to control ischemic injury by producing nitric oxide which dilates the vessels and thus maintains proper blood flow to the myocardium. In the present study attempt has been made to determine whether oral administration of L-arginine has any effect on oxidant/ antioxidant homeostasis in ischemic myocardial patients [represented by the patients of acute angina (AA) and acute myocardial infarction (MI)]. L-arginine has antioxidant and antiapoptotic properties, decreases endothelin-1 expression and improves endothelial function, thereby controlling oxidative injury caused during myocardial ischemic syndrome. Effect of L-arginine administration on the status of free radical scavenging enzymes, pro-oxidant enzyme and antioxidants viz. total thiols, carbonyl content and plasma ascorbic acid levels in the patients has been evaluated. We have observed that L-arginine administration (three grams per day for 15 days) resulted in increased activity of free radical scavenging enzyme superoxide dismutase (SOD) and increase in the levels of total thiols (T-SH) and ascorbic acid with concomitant decrease in lipid per-oxidation, carbonyl content, serum cholesterol and the activity of proxidant enzyme, xanthine oxidase (XO). These findings suggest that the supplementation of L-arginine along with regular therapy may be beneficial to the patients of ischemic myocardial syndromes.

UI  - 20716712
TI  - Effect of omega-3 fatty acids on heart rate variability in depressed patients with coronary heart disease.
AB  - The effects of omega-3 FAs on lnVLF and HR, although modest, were detected after only 10 weeks of treatment with 2 g per day of omega-3. Whether a longer course of treatment or a higher dose of omega-3 would further decrease HR, improve other indices of HRV, or reduce mortality in depressed CHD patients should be investigated.

UI  - 20705373
TI  - N-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids early supplementation improves ultrasound indices of endothelial function, but not through NO inhibitors in patients with acute myocardial infarction: N-3 PUFA supplementation in acute myocardial infarction.
AB  - Early and short-term n-3 PUFA supplementation improved ultrasound indices of endothelial function without affecting serum ADMA levels in patients with AMI and successful primary PCI.

UI  - 20691839
TI  - Cost and health outcome of primary percutaneous coronary intervention versus thrombolysis in acute ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction-Results of the Swedish Early Decision reperfusion Study (SWEDES) trial.
AB  - In a 1-year perspective, there was a tendency toward lower costs and better health outcome after primary PCI, resulting in costs for PCI in comparison to thrombolysis that will be below the conventional threshold for cost-effectiveness in 88% of bootstrap replications.

UI  - 20691832
TI  - Predicting chronic left ventricular dysfunction 90 days after ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction: An Assessment of Pexelizumab in Acute Myocardial Infarction (APEX-AMI) Substudy.
AB  - Three key pathophysiologic variables of the post-STEMI myocardium measuring baseline infarct size and the extent of microvascular obstruction on CMR and wall tension (24-hour NT-proBNP) independently predicted 90-day LVEF. Further studies linking these measures with earlier use of clinical therapies may be warranted.

UI  - 20657008
TI  - Fibrinolytic therapy and bleeding complications: risk predictors from RIKS-HIA.
AB  - During 2001 to 2006 the use of fibrinolytic treatment markedly decreased while the incidence of major bleeding complications more than doubled. The latter might in part be explained by increasing use concomitant antiplatelet therapy, pre-hospital treatment and fibrin-specific fibrinolytic agents. Future close monitoring of bleeding complications is warranted, especially when considering the increased use of various combinations of antithrombotic drugs in conjunction with fibrinolysis and the great impact of bleeding on long-term mortality.

UI  - 20644020
TI  - Prognostic value of lead V1 ST elevation during acute inferior myocardial infarction.
AB  - V(1) ST elevation identifies patients with acute inferior myocardial infarction who are at higher risk.

UI  - 20644019
TI  - Relationship between nonsustained ventricular tachycardia after non-ST-elevation acute coronary syndrome and sudden cardiac death: observations from the metabolic efficiency with ranolazine for less ischemia in non-ST-elevation acute coronary syndrome-thrombolysis in myocardial infarction 36 (MERLIN-TIMI 36) randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Nonsustained VT is common after admission for non-ST-elevation acute coronary syndrome, and even short episodes of VT lasting 4 to 7 beats are independently associated with the risk of SCD over the subsequent year. Clinical Trial Registration- URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00099788.

UI  - 20641058
TI  - Red ginseng extract improves coronary flow reserve and increases absolute numbers of various circulating angiogenic cells in patients with first ST-segment elevation acute myocardial infarction.
AB  - The effects of red ginseng extract on circulating angiogenic cell mobilization and improvement of microvascular integrity were evaluated in ST-elevation acute myocardial infarction (AMI) patients during 8-month follow-up. AMI patients (n = 50) were randomly assigned to the red ginseng group (3g/day, n = 25) or the placebo group (n = 25) after coronary stenting. Coronary flow reserve (CFR) was measured at baseline and at 8 months with an intracoronary Doppler wire. Serial changes in the absolute numbers of circulating angiogenic cells such as CD34(+) , CXCR4(+) , CD117(+) , CD133(+) and C-met(+) were measured at baseline, 1 day, 5 days and at 8 months. CFR were similar between the two groups at baseline, and CFR was significantly higher in the red ginseng group than in the placebo group (2.80  0.91 and 2.56  0.77, p < 0.05, respectively) after 8 months of red ginseng administration. The absolute numbers of circulating CD34(+) , CXCR4(+) and CD117(+) cells were significantly higher in the red ginseng group at 1 and 5 days after stenting. Significant positive correlations were found between the numbers of circulating angiogenic cells at day 1 and the changes from baseline in CFR for CD34(+) , CXCR4(+) , CD117(+) and C-met(+) cells. Red ginseng extract increased CD34(+) , CXCR4(+) and CD117(+) circulating angiogenic cell mobilization and decreased inflammation in AMI patients, thereby improving CFR during the 8-month follow-up.

UI  - 20633818
TI  - Value of the SYNTAX score for risk assessment in the all-comers population of the randomized multicenter LEADERS (Limus Eluted from A Durable versus ERodable Stent coating) trial.
AB  - The SXscore, when applied to an all-comers patient population treated with drug-eluting stents, may allow prospective risk stratification of patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention. (LEADERS Trial Limus Eluted From A Durable Versus ERodable Stent Coating; NCT00389220).

UI  - 20630461
TI  - Antithrombotic strategy in non-ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention: insights from the ACTION (Acute Coronary Treatment and Intervention Outcomes Network) Registry.
AB  - NSTEMI patients undergoing PCI are more likely to receive Bival or Hep alone when at higher baseline bleeding risk than when at lower baseline bleeding risk. Despite higher baseline risk, those receiving Bival or Hep alone had less bleeding.

UI  - 20619238
TI  - Prehospital high-dose tirofiban in patients undergoing primary percutaneous intervention. The AGIR-2 study.
AB  - Prehospital initiation of high-dose bolus tirofiban did not improve significantly initial TIMI 2 or 3 flow of the infarct-related artery or complete ST-segment resolution after coronary intervention compared with initiation of tirofiban in the catheterization laboratory (NCT00538317).

UI  - 20598993
TI  - Clopidogrel pretreatment in ST-elevation myocardial infarction patients transferred for percutaneous coronary intervention.
AB  - ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction patients undergoing primary PCI in a regional STEMI network who received earlier pretreatment with a 600-mg loading dose of clopidogrel had less ischemic complications without increased bleeding or mortality.

UI  - 20598985
TI  - Fatal myocardial rupture after acute myocardial infarction complicated by heart failure, left ventricular dysfunction, or both: the VALsartan In Acute myocardial iNfarcTion Trial (VALIANT).
AB  - Although rare, myocardial rupture accounted for nearly one fourth of all deaths within the first 30 days after high-risk MI, suggesting an estimated incidence of approximately 1% within the first 30 days. A number of clinical characteristics may identify post-MI patients at higher risk of myocardial rupture.

UI  - 20598969
TI  - The Strategic Reperfusion Early After Myocardial Infarction (STREAM) study.
AB  - Continuing delays in achieving timely PCI remain a difficult issue. Many patients fail to achieve the desired reperfusion times of 90 to 120 minutes after first medical contact. The STREAM results will provide useful additional data on which to base informed therapeutic decisions.

UI  - 20598967
TI  - Study design and rationale of a comparison of prasugrel and clopidogrel in medically managed patients with unstable angina/non-ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction: the TaRgeted platelet Inhibition to cLarify the Optimal strateGy to medicallY manage Acute Coronary Syndromes (TRILOGY ACS) trial.
AB  - Practice guidelines recommend dual antiplatelet therapy with aspirin and clopidogrel for patients with non-ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndromes (NSTE ACS) regardless of in-hospital management strategy. Prasugrel-a thienopyridine adenosine diphosphate receptor antagonist that provides higher and less variable levels of platelet inhibition than clopidogrel-has demonstrated benefit when used to treat ACS patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention. However, the optimal approach to antiplatelet therapy for high-risk, medically managed NSTE ACS patients remains uncertain, as these patients have not been the focus of previous clinical trials of these therapies. TRILOGY ACS is a phase 3, randomized, double-blind trial enrolling approximately 10,300 NSTE ACS patients within 10 days of presentation with either unstable angina or NSTE myocardial infarction who are not intended to undergo revascularization procedures for their index event. Patients will be randomly allocated to prasugrel + aspirin versus clopidogrel + aspirin for a median duration of 18 months. A reduction in the maintenance dose of prasugrel for elderly patients (age >or=75 years) and those with body weight <60 kg is planned. The primary composite efficacy end point will be time to first occurrence of cardiovascular death, myocardial infarction, or stroke in patients aged <75 years. If the superiority of prasugrel is established in patients aged <75 years, the treatment arms will then be compared for all subjects (including those aged >or=75 years). TRILOGY ACS is the largest randomized clinical trial to date focusing exclusively on medically managed NSTE ACS patients and will provide important information regarding the optimal approach to oral antiplatelet therapy for this high-risk, understudied population.

UI  - 20589311
TI  - Synergism between factor XII -4C>T and factor XIII Val34Leu polymorphisms in fibrinolytic therapy in acute myocardial infarction.
AB  - 

UI  - 20582594
TI  - One-year clinical outcomes with abciximab in acute myocardial infarction: results of the BRAVE-3 randomized trial.
AB  - In patients with STEMI, all receiving 600 mg clopidogrel, abciximab did not improve overall clinical outcomes at 1 year after primary coronary stenting.

UI  - 20569714
TI  - Suboptimal use of evidence-based medical therapy in patients with acute myocardial infarction from the Korea Acute Myocardial Infarction Registry: prescription rate, predictors, and prognostic value.
AB  - The optimal evidence-based medical therapy is prescribed at suboptimal rates, particularly in patients with high-risk features. New educational strategies are needed to increase the use of these secondary preventive medical therapies.

UI  - 20569712
TI  - Delays in fibrinolysis as primary reperfusion therapy for acute ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction.
AB  - Timely fibrinolytic therapy was associated with lower risk of a composite outcome of shock, death, or stroke, yet DTN times of < or =30 minutes were achieved in less than half of the patients studied. Thus, efforts to optimize regional systems of STEMI care should focus on shortening reperfusion times for patients who receive fibrinolysis, as well as those who receive primary percutaneous coronary intervention.

UI  - 20569707
TI  - Early dynamic risk stratification with baseline troponin levels and 90-minute ST-segment resolution to predict 30-day cardiovascular mortality in ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction: analysis from CLopidogrel as Adjunctive ReperfusIon TherapY (CLARITY)-Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction (TIMI) 28.
AB  - Baseline TnT and 90-minute STRes are independent predictors of 30-day CV death in patients with STEMI. Use of these 2 simple, readily available tools can aid clinicians in early risk stratification.

UI  - 20510211
TI  - Effect of early, pre-hospital initiation of high bolus dose tirofiban in patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction on short- and long-term clinical outcome.
AB  - Early, pre-hospital initiation of HBD tirofiban, in addition to high-dose clopidogrel, improves the clinical outcome after primary percutaneous coronary intervention in patients with STEMI. (Ongoing 2b/3a inhibition In Myocardial infarction Evaluation; ISRCTN06195297).

UI  - 20501957
TI  - Single-dose intravenous administration of recombinant human erythropoietin is a promising treatment for patients with acute myocardial infarction - randomized controlled pilot trial of EPO/AMI-1 study -.
AB  - EPO administration is a promising treatment for AMI.

UI  - 20497681
TI  - Thrombus aspiration plus intra-infarct-related artery administration of tirofiban improves myocardial perfusion during primary angioplasty for acute myocardial infarction.
AB  - Thrombus aspiration plus intra-IRA bolus administration of tirofiban combined with angioplasty may be related with improved myocardium perfusion, saved more myocardium, and resulted in a better clinical prognosis.

UI  - 20492467
TI  - Prasugrel vs. clopidogrel for cytochromeP450 2C19-genotyped subgroups: integration of the TRITON-TIMI38 trial data.
AB  - Integration of the TRITON-TIMI 38 data suggests that the CYP2C19 genotype can discriminate between individuals who receive extensive benefit from using prasugrel instead of clopidogrel, and individuals with comparable clinical outcomes with prasugrel and clopidorel. Thus, CYP2C19 genotyping has the potential to guide the choice of antiplatelet therapy, and further research is warranted to validate this estimate.

UI  - 20488407
TI  - Morphological characteristics of culprit atheromatic plaque are associated with coronary flow after thrombolytic therapy: new implications of optical coherence tomography from a multicenter study.
AB  - The morphological characteristics of the culprit atheromatic lesion in patients with STEMI are associated with coronary flow after thrombolysis. The lipid content, the existence of rupture, and mainly the thickness of the fibrous cap are associated with the outcome of thrombolysis.

UI  - 20453640
TI  - Transradial approach in patients with ST-elevation myocardial infarction treated with abciximab results in fewer bleeding complications: data from EUROTRANSFER registry.
AB  - The choice of radial access site in patients with STEMI treated with primary PCI is associated with lower local bleeding complications like puncture site hematomas and is an independent predictor of fewer bleedings.

UI  - 20451242
TI  - Smoking at least 10 cigarettes per day increases platelet inhibition by clopidogrel in patients with ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction.
AB  - CS seems to increase antiplatelet response to clopidogrel in healthy volunteers and STEMI patients. Smoking 10 or more cigarettes/day can significantly decrease on-clopidogrel platelet reactivity in these populations.

UI  - 20448126
TI  - Low-dose versus moderate-dose atorvastatin after acute myocardial infarction: 8-month effects on coronary flow reserve and angiogenic cell mobilisation.
AB  - The recovery of microvascular integrity after acute ischaemic injury in the ATOR40 group was expedited by greater circulating angiogenic cell mobilisations such as CD34+ and CXCR4+ cells, together with greater decreases in inflammatory cytokines and low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol concentrations. Registration number http://ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00536887.

UI  - 20444469
TI  - Do baseline atrial electrocardiographic and infarction patterns predict new-onset atrial fibrillation after ST-elevation myocardial infarction? Insights from the Assessment of Pexelizumab in Acute Myocardial Infarction Trial.
AB  - Abnormal P wave morphology significantly predicted new AF and 90-day mortality in STEMI patients.

UI  - 20435202
TI  - Is visual interpretation of coronary epicardial flow reliable in patients with ST-elevation myocardial infarction undergoing primary angioplasty? Insights from the angiographic substudy of the Assessment of Pexelizumab in Acute Myocardial Infarction (APEX-AMI) trial.
AB  - Significant quantitative and directional variation existed in TIMI flow grades assessed by LI versus a CL in nearly a fifth of the patients. Core laboratory interpretation post-PCI provides better prediction of clinical outcomes. These data deserve consideration when interpreting angiographic data from STEMI patients without CL estimation.

UI  - 20434045
TI  - Risk factor profiles of stroke, myocardial infarction, and atrial fibrillation: a Japanese Multicenter Cooperative Registry.
AB  - Risk factor profiles and their modification were not similar among patients in Japan with MI, stroke, and NVAF, although they share a high risk of thrombotic events.

UI  - 20413397
TI  - Relations between bleeding and outcomes in patients with ST-elevation myocardial infarction in the ExTRACT-TIMI 25 trial.
AB  - Cardiogenic shock, age, and ICH were important independent correlates of 30-day and 1-year mortality in STEMI patients receiving fibrinolytic therapy. In-hospital non-ICH major and minor bleeding were not independently associated with increased mortality at 30 days or 1 year.

UI  - 20410835
TI  - In-treatment midwall and endocardial fractional shortening predict cardiovascular outcome in hypertensive patients with preserved baseline systolic ventricular function: the Losartan Intervention For Endpoint reduction study.
AB  - These results support a prognostic role for left ventricular myocardial function, as estimated by stress-corrected MWS, during aggressive BP lowering in hypertensive patients with preserved ejection fraction at baseline evaluation.

UI  - 20403483
TI  - Effect of pravastatin therapy on coronary events in carriers of the KIF6 719Arg allele from the cholesterol and recurrent events trial.
AB  - A previous genetic analysis of the Cholesterol and Recurrent Events (CARE) trial found that carriers of the 719Arg allele of the kinesin family member 6 gene (KIF6) (rs20455), but not noncarriers, received significant event reduction from pravastatin therapy. However, that previous analysis of CARE included only Caucasian patients and was limited to the myocardial infarction components of the primary end point. Therefore, the aim of this study was to investigate whether pravastatin therapy reduced primary end point events in KIF6 719Arg carriers and noncarriers, separately, in the combined ethnic groups of CARE. The effect of pravastatin therapy on primary end point events (fatal coronary event or nonfatal myocardial infarction) was investigated in Cox regression models that adjusted for population structure using either self-reported ethnicity or the principal components of genetic heterogeneity. After adjustment for age, gender, and self-reported ethnicity, pravastatin therapy reduced events in carriers of KIF6 719Arg (hazard ratio [HR] 0.63, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.49 to 0.83) but not in noncarriers (HR 1.01, 95% CI 0.69 to 1.45) (p for interaction = 0.049). After adjustment for age, gender, traditional risk factors, and principal components, pravastatin therapy reduced events in carriers of 719Arg (HR 0.64, 95% CI 0.49 to 0.85) but not in noncarriers (HR 0.90, 95% CI 0.62 to 1.32) (p for interaction = 0.14). In conclusion, in an analysis that included CARE patients of all ethnic groups, pravastatin therapy significantly and substantially reduced primary end point events in carriers of the KIF6 719Arg allele but not in noncarriers.

UI  - 20403471
TI  - Effect of Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition on one-year mortality and frequency of repeat acute myocardial infarction in patients with acute myocardial infarction.
AB  - Controversy exists regarding whether all patients with acute myocardial infarction (AMI) benefit from angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs). We examined the association between ACEI treatment and mortality in a large, unselected population of patients with AMI. The present study included 105,224 patients with AMI who were not treated with ACEIs on admission. A logistic regression analysis, including 33 variables, calculated a propensity score for each patient to estimate the probability of receiving ACEIs at discharge, given the background. The association between ACEI treatment at discharge and the 1-year outcome was evaluated in prespecified subgroups using the Cox regression analyses, adjusting for the propensity score and medications at discharge. A total of 38,395 patients (36.5%) received ACEIs at discharge. After adjustment, ACEI treatment was associated with a 24% reduction in mortality (relative risk 0.76, 95% confidence interval 0.73 to 0.80). The benefit was largest in patients with a history or present signs of heart failure. In patients without heart failure, a significant benefit of ACEI treatment was seen only in patients with renal dysfunction (relative risk 0.69, 95% confidence interval 0.54 to 0.88). In the whole group, the risk of AMI decreased by 7% (relative risk 0.93, 95% confidence interval 0.90 to 0.96), with a larger effect seen in patients with ST-segment elevation AMI or systolic left ventricular dysfunction. In conclusion, in unselected patients with AMI, ACEI treatment was associated with a reduction in 1-year mortality, mainly in patients with heart failure or renal dysfunction, and a small reduction in the risk of reinfarction, mainly in patients with ST-segment elevation AMI or systolic left ventricular dysfunction.

UI  - 20400900
TI  - Platelet hyperfunction is decreased by additional aspirin loading in patients presenting with myocardial infarction on daily aspirin therapy.
AB  - Aspirin loading in the emergency room further reduced thromboxane B(2) levels and further inhibited platelet function in many patients with acute coronary syndrome already on 100 mg aspirin.

UI  - 20400762
TI  - One-year outcomes after a strategy using enoxaparin vs. unfractionated heparin in patients undergoing fibrinolysis for ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction: 1-year results of the ExTRACT-TIMI 25 trial.
AB  - Compared with UFH for 48 h, a strategy using enoxaparin as an adjunct to fibrinolysis resulted in a sustained reduction in death or MI at 1 year with no additional benefit after 30 days. Mortality was not reduced at 1 year with the enoxaparin strategy. The study was registered at ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT00077792.

UI  - 20399515
TI  - Age differences in the adherence to treatment guidelines and outcome in patients with ST-elevation myocardial infarction.
AB  - The aim of this study was to assess age differences in the utilization of class-I treatment guidelines and its effect on mortality in patients with ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI). The study included 1026 consecutive patients from the prospective nationwide Acute Coronary Syndrome Israeli Survey (ACSIS). Primary reperfusion was used less often among elderly (age>75 years) patients than among those aged 65-74 and <65 years (46%, 63%, 64%, respectively, p (for trend)=0.004). Class-I evidence-based medications (EBM) at discharge (aspirin, -blockers, angiotensin converting-enzyme inhibitors=ACEI, angiotensin receptor-blockers=ARBs and statins) were less frequently prescribed to elderly compared to younger age-subgroup (44%, 61%, 57%, respectively; adjusted odds ratio (OR)=0.62; 0.40-0.97 for age  75 vs. age<65 years). Early and 1-year mortality rates were 3-5-fold higher among the elderly compared to patients <65 years. In the entire cohort use of primary reperfusion was associated with lower 1-year mortality (OR=0.69; 0.47-1.01), as was the use of EBM (OR=0.26; 0.17-0.41). These effects were similar across all age-subgroups but with a greater impact among the elderly, as the number of patients needed to treat (NNT) was significantly lower with advancing age. Better adherence to treatment guidelines may improve the prognosis of elderly patients with STEMI.

UI  - 20398484
TI  - [Effects of intracoronary administration of nitroglycerin and verapamil for treatment of coronary slow flow phenomenon].
AB  - Intracoronary administration of verapamil could result in more coronary flow improvement in patients with CSFP than nitroglycerin, although the post therapy coronary flow was still slower than normal.

UI  - 20385930
TI  - Clinical features and outcomes of women with unstable ischemic heart disease: observations from metabolic efficiency with ranolazine for less ischemia in non-ST-elevation acute coronary syndromes-thrombolysis in myocardial infarction 36 (MERLIN-TIMI 36).
AB  - URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00099788.

UI  - 20378999
TI  - Changes of matrix metalloproteinase-9 level is associated with left ventricular remodeling following acute myocardial infarction among patients treated with trandolapril, valsartan or both.
AB  - LV remodeling might be suppressed in association with MMP-9 suppression in AMI patients treated with PCI and regular dose or half-dose-combination of RAS inhibitors. Furthermore, a half-dose-combination might suppress LV remodeling more effectively than trandolapril alone.

UI  - 20373130
TI  - Impact of early abciximab administration on myocardial reperfusion in patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction pretreated with 600 mg of clopidogrel before percutaneous coronary intervention.
AB  - Early rapid platelet inhibition with abciximab before primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PPCI) for ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) is suggested as beneficial. In previous studies on early abciximab administration clopidogrel was administered in cathlab in low loading dose. We investigated the role of early abciximab administration on top of early clopidogrel 600 mg loading dose in patients with STEMI treated with PPCI. A total of 73 non-shock STEMI < 6 h patients admitted to remote hospitals with anticipated delay to PPCI < 90 min were randomly assigned to three study groups--24 pts received abciximab before transfer to cathlab (early = group EA), 27 in cathlab during PPCI (late = group LA) and in 22 abciximab administration was left to operator's discretion during PPCI (selective = SA; given in 22.7% of patients). All patients received clopidogrel (600 mg), aspirin and heparin (70 U/kg) before transfer to cathlab. Angiography revealed more frequent infarct-related artery patency (TIMI 2 + 3: EA vs LA vs SA: 45.8 vs 18.5 vs 13.6%, P = 0.024), better myocardial tissue perfusion (MBG 2 + 3: EA vs LA vs SA: 45.8 vs 14.8 vs 13.6%, P = 0.02) in EA group in baseline angiography. There was no difference in these angiographic parameters and ECG ST-segment resolution after PPCI. In multivariate analysis early abciximab administration was an independent predictor of infarct-related artery patency in baseline angiography (OR 6.5; 95% CI 1.83-23.1; P = 0.004). Early abciximab administration before transfer for PPCI in patients with STEMI pretreated with 600 mg of clopidogrel results in more frequent infarct-related artery patency and better myocardial tissue perfusion before PPCI.

UI  - 20372752
TI  - Reperfusion strategy and mortality in ST-elevation myocardial infarction among patients with and without impaired renal function.
AB  - Primary PCI was associated with improved 30-day survival among patients with normal renal function but not among those with impaired renal function. Randomised trials are needed to study the relative efficacy of both reperfusion strategies in patients with impaired renal function.

UI  - 20362730
TI  - Low-molecular-weight heparin versus unfractionated heparin in acute ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction patients undergoing primary percutaneous coronary intervention with drug-eluting stents.
AB  - The LMWH enoxaparin combined with reduced dose of UFH (50 U/kg) administration as an adjunctive antithrombotic therapy in STEMI patients undergoing primary PCI with DESs seems to be safe and efficacious. However, randomized clinical trials are needed to confirm this conclusion.

UI  - 20362711
TI  - Intracoronary compared with intravenous bolus abciximab application during primary percutaneous coronary intervention: design and rationale of the Abciximab Intracoronary versus intravenously Drug Application in ST-Elevation Myocardial Infarction (AIDA STEMI) trial.
AB  - The AIDA STEMI study addresses important questions regarding the efficacy and safety of intracoronary abciximab bolus administration during primary PCI in patients with STEMI, potentially optimizing the route of administration of glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors in the catheterization laboratory.

UI  - 20362710
TI  - Effect of low doses of n-3 fatty acids on cardiovascular diseases in 4,837 post-myocardial infarction patients: design and baseline characteristics of the Alpha Omega Trial.
AB  - Follow-up of the patients was completed in November 2009, and findings will be reported in the second part of 2010.

UI  - 20353936
TI  - The effect of optimal medical therapy on 1-year mortality after acute myocardial infarction.
AB  - OMT over 1 year was associated with a significantly lower mortality of patients with acute myocardial infarction in clinical practice. However OMT is provided to less than half of eligible patients leaving room for substantial improvement.

UI  - 20339970
TI  - Low-dose nesiritide improves renal function in heart failure patients following acute myocardial infarction.
AB  - This study was designed to investigate the effect of low-dose nesiritide on renal function and major cardiac events in patients with acute decompensated heart failure following acute myocardial infarction. Sixty patients were randomized into nesiritide (loading dose 0.5 microg/kg, maintenance dose 0.0075 microg/kg/min) and nitroprusside groups. Compared with the nitroprusside group, the nesiritide group had a greater heart rate reduction (P < 0.05), higher 24 h urine volume (P < 0.001), and more significant alleviation in dyspnea (P < 0.001). The prevalence of hypotension in the nesiritide group was lower than in the nitroprusside group (7.4% vs 28.5%, P < 0.05). The nesiritide group had a greater reduction in serum noradrenaline, angiotensin II, aldosterone, endothelin, and N-terminal prohormone brain natriuretic peptide (all P < 0.01). The mean serum creatinine in the nesiritide group was reduced (109.4 +/- 26.6 vs 102.8 +/- 21.6 micromol/l, P < 0.01), whereas it remained unchanged in the nitroprusside group (106.8 +/- 20 vs 106.0 +/- 19.2 micromol/l, P > 0.05). The rehospitalization or mortality rate was similar between the two groups 3 months after the therapy (P > 0.05). We conclude that low-dose nesiritide is more effective in suppressing the activation of the sympathetic and renin-angiotensin systems. It also improves the clinical symptoms and enhances renal function, but its effect on hospital readmission or mortality rate needs further investigation.

UI  - 20308618
TI  - Primary angioplasty versus fibrinolysis in acute myocardial infarction: long-term follow-up in the Danish acute myocardial infarction 2 trial.
AB  - The benefit of pPCI over fibrinolysis was maintained at a long-term follow-up. pPCI reduced the risk of reinfarction in the overall cohort and reduced reinfarction and mortality among patients randomized at referral hospitals. This result reinforces that pPCI should be offered to ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction patients when interhospital transport to an invasive hospital can be completed within 120 minutes.

UI  - 20298997
TI  - Adjunctive transcutaneous ultrasound with thrombolysis: results of the PLUS (Perfusion by ThromboLytic and UltraSound) trial.
AB  - Thrombolysis plus TUS failed to improve 60-min TIMI flow grade or ST-segment resolution versus thrombolysis alone.

UI  - 20298996
TI  - Prior coronary artery bypass graft patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction treated with primary percutaneous coronary intervention.
AB  - Prior CABG patients with STEMI are less likely to undergo acute reperfusion, have worse angiographic outcomes following primary PCI, and higher 90-day mortality. These findings are especially applicable when the IRA was a bypass graft.

UI  - 20298994
TI  - Efficacy of high-dose atorvastatin loading before primary percutaneous coronary intervention in ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction: the STATIN STEMI trial.
AB  - High-dose atorvastatin pre-treatment before PCI did not show a significant reduction of MACEs compared with low-dose atorvastatin but did show improved immediate coronary flow after primary PCI. High-dose atorvastatin may produce an optimal result for STEMI patients undergoing PCI by improving microvascular myocardial perfusion. (Efficacy of High-Dose AtorvaSTATIN Loading Before Primary Percutaneous Coronary Intervention in ST-Elevation Myocardial Infarction [STATIN STEMI]; NCT00808717).

UI  - 20298926
TI  - Effect of cyclosporine on left ventricular remodeling after reperfused myocardial infarction.
AB  - Cyclosporine used at the moment of acute myocardial infarction reperfusion persistently reduces infarct size and does not have a detrimental effect on LV remodeling. These results are preliminary and must be supported by further studies. (Ciclosporin A and Acute Myocardial Infarction; NCT00403728).

UI  - 20211324
TI  - Comparison of outcomes between Zotarolimus- and sirolimus-eluting stents in patients with ST-segment elevation acute myocardial infarction.
AB  - Zotarolimus-eluting stents (ZESs) demonstrated greater in-segment late luminal loss and in-segment binary restenosis rates compared to sirolimus-eluting stents (SESs) in several studies. However, no data are available in direct comparison between the clinical outcomes of the 2 stents in unselected patients with ST-segment elevation acute myocardial infarction (STEMI). The aim of the present study was to compare the clinical outcomes of ZESs and SESs in real-world patients with STEMI. A total of 873 patients with STEMI (306 patients in the ZES group and 567 patients in the SES group) were enrolled in a nationwide prospective Korea Acute Myocardial Infarction Registry (KAMIR) from January 2007 to January 2008. The primary end points were major adverse cardiac events, a composite of all causes of death, myocardial infarction, and target lesion revascularization during a 12-month clinical follow-up. During 1 year of follow-up, the primary end points occurred in 140 patients (16.0%). The use of glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors and the occurrence of multivessel disease were more common in the SES group. The SES group had a significantly lower incidence of major adverse cardiac events (hazard ratio [HR] 1.52, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.07 to 2.16, p = 0.02), target lesion revascularization (HR 2.16, 95% CI 1.01 to 4.59, p = 0.046), and target vessel revascularization (HR 2.24, 95% CI 1.18 to 4.24, p = 0.013). However, no significant differences were found in death or myocardial infarction (HR 1.37, 95% CI 0.91 to 2.05, p = 0.129). In conclusion, SESs provided superior angiographic outcomes, translating into better clinical outcomes and negating any change in STEMI patient safety profiles compared to ZESs.

UI  - 20210844
TI  - Effect of gender on prognosis in patients with myocardial infarction and type 2 diabetes.
AB  - Age and not gender itself explained the increased cardiovascular event rate seen in women compared with men. A heavier risk factor burden was seen amongst women. Improved risk factor control instituted before the development of a myocardial infarction should be attempted as a possible means of improving the outcome.

UI  - 20207952
TI  - Hepatic metabolism and transporter gene variants enhance response to rosuvastatin in patients with acute myocardial infarction: the GEOSTAT-1 Study.
AB  - The LDL cholesterol target was achieved more frequently for the 1 in 3 patients with CYP3A5 and/or BCRP variant genotypes when prescribed rosuvastatin 10 mg, compared with simvastatin 40 mg. Clinical Trial Registration- URL: http://isrctn.org. Unique identifier: ISRCTN 89508434.

UI  - 20202514
TI  - Impact of olmesartan on progression of coronary atherosclerosis a serial volumetric intravascular ultrasound analysis from the OLIVUS (impact of OLmesarten on progression of coronary atherosclerosis: evaluation by intravascular ultrasound) trial.
AB  - These observations suggest a positive role in a potentially lower rate of coronary atheroma progression through the administration of olmesartan, an angiotension-II receptor blocking agent, for patients with stable angina pectoris.

UI  - 20157843
TI  - Warfarin after anterior myocardial infarction in current era of dual antiplatelet therapy: a randomized feasibility trial.
AB  - composite of death, MI, stroke, systemic embolizarion, LVT or major bleeding at three months. 295 patients with aSTEMI were screened: 27% of patients with LVEF < 40% had an LVT; 20/52 eligible patients were randomized to receive TT (n = 10) or DT (n = 10). Baseline characteristics: mean age 60 years, male gender 65%, diabetics 20%, and in hospital PCI 95%. There was no significant difference in the composite endpoint at 3 months (TT-20% with 1 LVT and 1 major bleed versus DT-10% with 1 MI). The incidence of definite or probable LVT in the screened population of patients post aSTEMI with an LVEF < 40% was 26.6% despite 94% having early revascularization. STEMI patients have a high incidence of LVT despite the routine use of early revascularization and dual antiplatelet therapy. More effective antithrombotic strategies merit evaluation in adequately powered randomized trials.

UI  - 20141566
TI  - Cardiovascular outcomes and their relationships to lipoprotein components in patients with and without chronic kidney disease: results from the IDEAL trial.
AB  - Chronic kidney disease was a powerful risk factor for all cardiovascular end-points. The reason why the significant reductions achieved by high-dose statin treatment in most CV end-points in the non-CKD group were only in part matched by similar reductions in the CKD patients is not apparent. This difference did not result from differential changes in or relations to LC, but limited power may have increased the possibility of chance findings.

UI  - 20122609
TI  - Anti-t-PA antibodies in acute myocardial infarction after thrombolysis with rt-PA.
AB  - The infusion of rt-PA may induce the production of specific antibodies that bind active sites of t-PA, thus potentially reducing its in vivo function.

UI  - 20117403
TI  - Serum soluble ST2: a potential novel mediator in left ventricular and infarct remodeling after acute myocardial infarction.
AB  - Measurement of sST2 early after AMI assists in the prediction of medium-term LV functional recovery. Novel relationships were observed between sST2, infarct magnitude/evolution, and aldosterone. Serum sST2 may be of pathophysiological importance in ventricular and infarct remodeling after AMI. (Effects of Eplerenone on Left Ventricular Remodelling Following Heart Attack; NCT00132093).

UI  - 20102867
TI  - Extent of ST-segment resolution after fibrinolysis adds improved risk stratification to clinical risk score for ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction.
AB  - The extent of STRes based on routinely obtained ECGs is an independent predictor of death and heart failure when used together with the TIMI risk score and significantly improves the ability to risk stratify patients after fibrinolysis.

UI  - 20102300
TI  - Plasma YKL-40 and recovery of left ventricular function after acute myocardial infarction.
AB  - Plasma YKL-40 was significantly increased in STEMI patients at admission and G-CSF treatment caused a further increase in YKL-40. Plasma YKL-40 may be an indirect marker of LVEF recovery, independent of hs-CRP, and higher plasma YKL-40 indicates a lower recovery.

UI  - 20081320
TI  - Effects of nicorandil on cardiovascular events in patients with coronary artery disease in the Japanese Coronary Artery Disease (JCAD) study.
AB  - The reduction in cardiovascular death with nicorandil was large in patients with IHD, which has important implications for treatment.

UI  - 20076856
TI  - Expression of CXCR4, VLA-1, LFA-3 and transducer of ERB in G-CSF-mobilised progenitor cells in acute myocardial infarction.
AB  - G-CSF induced mobilisation of progenitor cells is a multistep processes involving chemokines, growth factors, matrix-degrading enzymes, and cell adhesive interactions mediated by specific receptors on haematopoietic cells. This study's aim was to investigate progenitor cells mobilised during myocardial infarction after treatment with granulocyte-stimulating factor (G-CSF). In the randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled REVIVAL-2 study, 114 patients with acute myocardial infarction were included. Five days after successful percutaneous coronary intervention patients received either 10 microg/kg G-CSF (n=56) or placebo (n=58) subcutaneously for five days. Venous blood samples were analysed on day(s) 1, 3, 5 and 7 after therapy, and progenitor cell mobilisation and surface expression of VLA-4, LFA-1 and CXCR-4 was measured on circulating progenitor cells using flow cytometry. G-CSF induced a significant increase in circulating progenitor cells (72 +/- 20 cells/microl vs. 4.5 +/- 0.8 cells/microl, p<0.05). Surface expression of LFA-1, VLA-4 and CXCR4 on progenitor cells was decreased by 44%, 49% and 60% after G-CSF as compared to placebo (p<0.05). In accordance, mRNA expression of CXCR4 was reduced. Moreover, anti-proliferative transducer of ERB (TOB) mRNA was decreased, suggesting an increased proliferative potential of the mobilised progenitor cells. Decreased expression of adhesion and chemokine receptors on G-CSF mobilised progenitor cells in acute myocardial infarction may alter the homing capacity of circulating cells to the myocardium.

UI  - 20051299
TI  - Safety and efficacy of SITAgliptin plus GRanulocyte-colony-stimulating factor in patients suffering from Acute Myocardial Infarction (SITAGRAMI-Trial)--rationale, design and first interim analysis.
AB  - Our data demonstrate that the combined application of Sitagliptin and G-CSF seems to be safe on the short term and feasible after acute myocardial infarction and may represent a new therapeutic option in future.

UI  - 21591386
TI  - [Efficacy of ramipril, carvedilol, and trimetazidine MR in improvement of quality of life of patients after myocardial infarction].
AB  - 

UI  - 20031735
TI  - Effect of high-dose intracoronary adenosine administration during primary percutaneous coronary intervention in acute myocardial infarction: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - In this randomized placebo controlled trial enrolling 448 patients with ST-elevation myocardial infarction, administration of intracoronary adenosine after thrombus aspiration and after stenting of the infarct-related artery did not result in improved myocardial perfusion.

UI  - 20021927
TI  - [Effect of tirofiban in acute anterior myocardial infarction patients without ST segment resolution after primary percutaneous coronary intervention].
AB  - Use of tirofiban for acute anterior myocardial infarction patients without ST segment resolution after PCI is safe and can significantly improve 30 and 180 days clinical outcomes after discharge.

UI  - 19962464
TI  - Effect of atorvastatin on platelet thromboxane A(2) synthesis in aspirin-treated patients with acute myocardial infarction.
AB  - Inhibition of platelet thromboxane A(2) (TXA(2)) by aspirin is critical in patients with acute myocardial infarction (AMI), but some patients have persistent platelet TXA(2) production within 48 hours of the onset of AMI. Statins are known to reduce TXA(2) in aspirin-free patients with hypercholesterolemia. We hypothesized that treatment with aspirin plus atorvastatin could reduce persistent TXA(2) synthesis and aspirin resistance in patients with AMI. We evaluated platelet function in 184 aspirin-treated patients within 48 hours of the onset of AMI. Patients were divided into group A (treated with aspirin alone, n = 139) and group B (treated with aspirin plus atorvastatin, n = 45). We studied collagen-induced platelet TXA(2) synthesis, serotonin ((14)C-5HT) release and recruitment, and adenosine diphosphate-, arachidonic acid-, and collagen-induced platelet aggregation. Persistent TXA(2) synthesis was detected in 25% and 9% of groups A and B, respectively (p = 0.03). TXA(2), arachidonic acid-aggregation, and collagen-induced responses were significantly reduced in patients receiving dual treatment compared to those receiving aspirin monotherapy. Atorvastatin did not modify platelet reactivity in patients with efficiently blocked TXA(2) synthesis. These results strongly suggest a direct effect of the statin on platelet eicosanoid synthesis. This was confirmed in vitro by incubating washed aspirin-free and aspirin (1 muM)-treated platelets from normal subjects with 1 to 20 microM atorvastatin. Atorvastatin in vitro significantly reduced platelet TXA(2) synthesis and collagen-induced aggregation. In conclusion, atorvastatin combined with aspirin early in the onset of the acute event significantly reduced persistent TXA(2) and TXA(2)-dependent aspirin resistance. This could contribute to the clinical benefit of atorvastatin in patients with AMI.

UI  - 19960133
TI  - Cost-effectiveness of enoxaparin compared with unfractionated heparin in ST elevation myocardial infarction patients undergoing pharmacological reperfusion: a Canadian analysis of the Enoxaparin and Thrombolysis Reperfusion for Acute Myocardial Infarction Treatment - Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction (ExTRACT-TIMI) 25 trial.
AB  - Although associated with modest increased direct medication costs, enoxaparin following fibrinolysis improved the clinical efficacy in STEMI patients and increased the life years gained.

UI  - 19958867
TI  - Safety and feasibility of adjunctive antiplatelet therapy with intravenous elinogrel, a direct-acting and reversible P2Y12 ADP-receptor antagonist, before primary percutaneous intervention in patients with ST-elevation myocardial infarction: the Early Rapid ReversAl of platelet thromboSis with intravenous Elinogrel before PCI to optimize reperfusion in acute Myocardial Infarction (ERASE MI) pilot trial.
AB  - With the limitations of a small study sample size, this pilot study provided preliminary data on the feasibility and tolerability of escalating doses of a direct-acting, reversible, intravenous P2Y12 ADP-receptor antagonist, elinogrel, as an adjunctive therapy for primary PCI for STEMI.

UI  - 19958860
TI  - Effects of recombinant human erythropoietin on platelet activation in acute myocardial infarction: results of a double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized trial.
AB  - In acute MI patients treated with aspirin and clopidogrel, short-term administration of rHuEpo did not alter markers of platelet and endothelial cell activation associated with thrombosis, yet did increase expression of angiogenesis signaling proteins in PBMCs when compared with placebo. These data provide preliminary evidence of safety and biologic activity of rHuEpo at this dosing and support continued enrollment in ongoing efficacy trials.

UI  - 19944362
TI  - Comparison of ivabradine versus metoprolol in early phases of reperfused anterior myocardial infarction with impaired left ventricular function: preliminary findings.
AB  - Our results suggest that ivabradine may be administered early (12hours after PCI) to patients with successful PCI for anterior STEMI with an impaired left ventricular function and high HR and sinus rhythm. A larger sample of patients and further studies are required to evaluate the effects of ivabradine on clinical end points.

UI  - 19930866
TI  - A randomized trial comparing the effect of ramipril and losartan in survivors of ST-elevation myocardial infarction.
AB  - This study investigated the effect of 8 weeks of treatment with ramipril or losartan on N-terminal pro-brain natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) plasma levels, plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) activity, echocardiographic parameters and lipid profiles in patients after acute myocardial infarction (MI). Patients were randomly assigned to receive up to 10 mg/day ramipril (n = 27) or up to 100 mg/day losartan (n = 26). No significant differences in any of the tested variables were observed between the two treatment groups, either before or after treatment. Within the losartan-treated group a significant decrease in levels of NT-proBNP (211.1 +/- 211.5 versus 94.7 +/- 150.1 pg/ml), total cholesterol (5.7 +/- 1.0 versus 4.6 +/- 1.1 mmol/l), and low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (3.5 +/- 0.9 versus 2.7 +/- 1.0 mmol/l) was observed after treatment compared with baseline. Thus, after an acute MI, losartan seems equal to ramipril in terms of the NT-proBNP levels, echocardiographic parameters, PAI-1 activity and lipid profiles that were achieved.

UI  - 19929464
TI  - Long-term benefit of intracardiac delivery of autologous granulocyte-colony-stimulating factor-mobilized blood CD34+ cells containing cardiac progenitors on regional heart structure and function after myocardial infarct.
AB  - Mobilized CD34+ cells contain stem cells committed along endothelial and cardiac differentiation pathways, which could play a key role in a proposed two-phase mechanism of myocardial regeneration after direct intracardiac delivery, probably being responsible for the long-term clinical benefit observed.

UI  - 19927632
TI  - [An angiographic trial to evaluate the efficacy and safety of tenecteplase in Chinese patients with acute myocardial infarction].
AB  - The efficacy of single-bolus, weight-adjusted TNK-tPA fibrinolytic regimen is equivalent to front-loaded alteplase in terms of the rates of TIMI grade 3 flow, TIMI 2 or 3 flow. Incidences of moderate/severe hemorrhage, ICH and 30-days mortality were similar in TNK-tPA and rt-PA treated patients.

UI  - 19927014
TI  - Association between hospital cardiac management and outcomes for acute myocardial infarction patients.
AB  - Hospitals with higher levels of both medical and interventional management and higher quality initial ED assessment had better outcomes. Readmissions were particularly sensitive to care processes. In the face of the unwarranted variations in outcomes across hospitals, strategies that promote better ED and inpatient management of AMI patients are needed.

UI  - 19921102
TI  - Impact of diabetes on long-term outcome in STEMI patients undergoing primary angioplasty with glycoprotein IIb-IIIa inhibitors and BMS or DES.
AB  - Diabetes has been shown to be associated with worse survival and repeat revascularization (TVR) after primary angioplasty. Drug-eluting stent (DES) may offer benefits in terms of TVR, that may be counterbalanced by an higher risk of stent thrombosis, especially among STEMI patients. Aim of the current study was to evaluate the impact of diabetes on 5-year outcome in patients undergoing primary angioplasty with glycoprotein IIb-IIIa inhibitors in the era of DES. Our population is represented by STEMI patients undergoing primary angioplasty and stent implantation at a tertiary center with 24-h primary PCI capability within 12 h of symptom onset. All patients received glycoprotein IIb-IIIa inhibitors. No patient was lost to follow up. From 2003 to 2005, 270 STEMI patients were treated with DES (n = 180), or BMS (n = 90). A total of 69 patients had history of diabetes at admission (25.5%). At a follow-up of 1510 +/- 406 days, diabetes was associated with a higher rate of death (29.5 vs. 5.1%, P < 0.0001), reinfarction (24.1 vs. 9.1%, P < 0.0001), TVR (19.1 vs. 13.1%, P = 0.052), IST (17.2 vs. 6.8%, P < 0.001) and MACE (51.9 vs. 25.1%, P < 0.001). These results were confirmed in both patients receiving BMS or DES, except for TVR, where no difference was observed between diabetic and non-diabetic patients. This study shows that among STEMI patients undergoing primary angioplasty with Gp IIb-IIIa inhibitors, diabetes is associated with worse long-term mortality, reinfarction, and IST, even with DES implantation, that, however, were able to equalize the outcome in terms of TVR as compared to non diabetic patients.

UI  - 19918189
TI  - A multicenter randomized study to evaluate intracoronary abciximab with the ClearWay catheter to improve outcomes with Lysis (IC ClearLy): trial study design and rationale.
AB  - The purpose of this study is to evaluate whether an intracoronary bolus of abciximab delivered with the ClearWay RX catheter prior to the 12 h post-PCI intravenous infusion regimen of abciximab will result in significant additional clot resolution in vivo and improved myocardial perfusion when compared with an intravenous bolus of abciximab on top of the 12 h post-PCI intravenous infusion regimen of abciximab as per standard practice. The primary endpoint chosen to evaluate this hypothesis is infarct size as assessed by cardiac magnetic resonance.

UI  - 19906505
TI  - Inflammatory markers and cardiac function in acute coronary syndrome: difference in ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) and in non-STEMI models.
AB  - These observations suggest a differential inflammatory pattern in STEMI and NSTEMI patients. The absence of significant correlations between inflammatory indexes and myocardial infarction in NSTEMI supports the hypothesis that a different pattern of inflammation occurs in these patients. CD40L may have an important role as a marker for risk stratification in patients with ACS.

UI  - 19906454
TI  - High-dose erythropoietin in patients with acute myocardial infarction: a pilot, randomised, placebo-controlled study.
AB  - Short-term high-dose EPO administration in patients with AMI treated by PCI and standard anti-platelet therapy increases the levels of circulating CD34+ cells, shifts PBC gene expression towards anti-apoptotic, pro-angiogenic and anti-inflammatory pathways, and decreases infarct size. The clinical relevance of these results needs to be confirmed in specifically tailored trials.

UI  - 19903682
TI  - Chronic nitrate therapy is associated with different presentation and evolution of acute coronary syndromes: insights from 52,693 patients in the Global Registry of Acute Coronary Events.
AB  - In this large multinational registry, chronic nitrate use was associated with a shift away from STEMI in favour of NSTE-ACS and with less release of markers of cardiac necrosis. These findings suggest that in nitrate users acute coronary events may develop to a smaller extent. Randomized, placebo-controlled trials are warranted to establish whether nitrate therapy may pharmacologically precondition the heart toward ischaemic episodes.

UI  - 19898698
TI  - Economic evaluation of high-dose (80 mg/day) atorvastatin treatment compared with standard-dose (20 mg/day to 40 mg/day) simvastatin treatment in Canada based on the Incremental Decrease in End-Points Through Aggressive Lipid-Lowering (IDEAL) trial.
AB  - From a Canadian societal perspective, high-dose atorvastatin is cost-effective compared with standard-dose simvastatin in patients with a previous MI.

UI  - 19875410
TI  - Timing of eplerenone initiation and outcomes in patients with heart failure after acute myocardial infarction complicated by left ventricular systolic dysfunction: insights from the EPHESUS trial.
AB  - An earlier eplerenone administration (3-7days) post-AMI improved outcomes in patients with LVSD and HF. This benefit was not observed when eplerenone was initiated later (> or =7days).

UI  - 19874989
TI  - Long-term prognostic value of ST-segment resolution in patients treated with fibrinolysis or primary percutaneous coronary intervention results from the DANAMI-2 (DANish trial in acute myocardial infarction-2).
AB  - The ST-segment resolution at 90 min was more complete after pPCI, suggesting better epicardial and microvascular reperfusion, whereas no difference between treatment strategies was seen at 4 h. The ST-segment resolution at 4 h correlated with decreased mortality, but increased reinfarction rates among patients receiving fibrinolytic therapy, whereas no association was seen for patients receiving pPCI. Consequently, 4-h ST-segment resolution remains an important prognosticator after fibrinolysis, but may be overemphasized as a surrogate end point after pPCI.

UI  - 19854729
TI  - Predictors of sudden cardiac death change with time after myocardial infarction: results from the VALIANT trial.
AB  - Predictors of SCD change with time after MI. Future studies of risk stratification for SCD should account for changes in these factors with time after MI.

UI  - 19840889
TI  - Effects of perhexiline on myocardial deformation in patients with ischaemic left ventricular dysfunction.
AB  - Perhexiline does not improve the deformation of abnormal myocardial segments in patients with ischaemic LV dysfunction.

UI  - 19801020
TI  - Erythropoietin to augment myocardial salvage induced by coronary thrombolysis in patients with ST segment elevation acute myocardial infarction.
AB  - To determine whether the administration of erythropoietin (EPO) early after the onset of ischemia could enhance the preservation of jeopardized myocardium by reperfusion, 236 patients admitted <6 hours after the onset of chest pain indicative of acute coronary syndromes confirmed to be ST-segment elevation acute myocardial infarctions who were treated with tenecteplase to induce coronary thrombolysis were studied. Patients were randomized to standard care or standard care plus the administration of a single dose of EPO 30,000 IU intravenously immediately before the onset of treatment with tenecteplase. The primary end point was enzymatically estimated infarct size. The results indicated that infarct size index was virtually identical in the 2 groups, with a mean +/- SE of 13.2 +/- 0.1 creatine kinase-MB gram equivalents in controls and 12.4 +/- 0.9 creatine kinase-MB gram equivalents in patients treated with EPO. In conclusion, although the early administration of EPO was apparently safe, it did not enhance the preservation of jeopardized ischemic myocardium.

UI  - 19796737
TI  - Role of clopidogrel loading dose in patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction undergoing primary angioplasty: results from the HORIZONS-AMI (harmonizing outcomes with revascularization and stents in acute myocardial infarction) trial.
AB  - In patients with STEMI undergoing primary PCI with contemporary anticoagulation regimens, a 600-mg loading dose of clopidogrel may safely reduce 30-day ischemic adverse event rates compared with a 300-mg loading dose. (Harmonizing Outcomes With Revascularization and Stents in Acute Myocardial Infarction [HORIZONS-AMI]; NCT00433966).

UI  - 19786940
TI  - Abciximab combined with half-dose reteplase has beneficial effects on inflammatory myocardial response in patients with myocardial infarction.
AB  - In patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI), myocardial reperfusion is associated with an inflammatory response leading to adverse effects on further myocardial damage. Therefore, we investigated the effects of the thrombolytic regimen with half-dose reteplase (r-PA) combined with abciximab on different cytokines involved in the local and systemic inflammatory scenario in STEMI patients. Thirty-eight STEMI patients were enrolled in this study. We investigated the effects of the regimen with half-dose r-PA plus abciximab versus full-dose r-PA on interleukin-6 (IL-6), interleukin-8 (IL-8), interleukin-10 (IL-10), MCP-1 and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) up to 48 h after the start of therapy. The full-dose r-PA group had a significant IL-6 increase after 48 h compared with the combination group. Furthermore, the full-dose r-PA group showed a marked increase of IL-10 (up to 3 h after) compared with a 41% IL-10 decrease in the combination group. MCP-1 decreased significantly after 3 h in the combination group compared with patients on r-PA therapy only. The combination group showed a nonsignificant increase in IL-8 within the first 6 h. There were no differences in TNF-alpha levels between the two infarct groups. In vivo, the investigated combined thrombolytic regimen consisting of half-dose r-PA plus abciximab causes less of an IL-6 increase and marked decreases in IL-10 and MCP-1 in STEMI patients compared with the pure r-PA thrombolytic regimen. This observation suggests that besides the known beneficial effects on systemic coagulation and leukocyte-platelet aggregates, this regimen may exert a favorable influence on myocardial tissue damage and thus on cardiac repair following myocardial infarction.

UI  - 19785725
TI  - Intracoronary versus intravenous abciximab in ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction: rationale and design of the CICERO trial in patients undergoing primary percutaneous coronary intervention with thrombus aspiration.
AB  - The CICERO trial is the first clinical trial to date to verify the effect of intracoronary versus intravenous administration of abciximab on myocardial perfusion in patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction undergoing primary percutaneous coronary intervention with thrombus aspiration.

UI  - 19784816
TI  - Intensive cholesterol-lowering therapy improves large artery elasticity in acute myocardial infarction patients.
AB  - This study was aimed at probing the effects of intensive cholesterol-lowering therapy with simvastatin on the large artery elasticity of acute myocardial infarction patients. A total of 72 cases of acute myocardial infarction patients were divided into a normocholesterol group (n = 37) and a hypercholesterol group (n = 35) according to their serum low-density lipoprotein. All patients were given oral simvastatin 40 mg/day for 6 months, and their pulse-wave velocity (PWV) of different artery segments and ankle-brachial index (ABI) were measured before and after the therapy. The low-density lipoprotein cholesterol level in both groups decreased significantly (2.13 +/- 0.32 vs 1.56 +/- 0.28, 3.43 +/- 0.80 vs 2.28 +/- 0.47 mmol/l, P < 0.01). The PWV of each artery segment in both the normocholesterol group and the hypercholesterol group decreased significantly (P < 0.05). Pulse-wave velocity in the hypercholesterol group was lowered much more than that of the normocholesterol group (P < 0.05). There were no differences among each artery segment in each group. Ankle-brachial index increased significantly in both groups (1.12 +/- 0.16 to 1.22 +/- 0.12, P < 0.05 in the normocholesterol group, and 1.03 +/- 0.22 to 1.23 +/- 0.16, P < 0.01 in the hypercholesterol group), but ABI increased much more in the hypercholesterol group than in the normocholesterol group (0.21 + 0.15 vs 0.11 + 0.09 P = 0.02). Intensive cholesterol-lowering therapy with simvastatin for acute myocardial infarction patients can significantly improve their large artery elasticity and regress their atherosclerosis. Hypercholesterol patients benefit more from this therapy.

UI  - 19781431
TI  - Predictors of 30-day mortality in patients with refractory cardiogenic shock following acute myocardial infarction despite a patent infarct artery.
AB  - The SBP, creatinine clearance, and number of vasopressors are significant predictors of mortality in patients with persistent vasopressor-dependent cardiogenic shock following acute MI despite a patent infarct artery. These prognostic variables may be useful for risk-stratification and in selecting patients for investigation of additional therapies.

UI  - 19778669
TI  - Cost effectiveness of enoxaparin in acute ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction: the ExTRACT-TIMI 25 (Enoxaparin and Thrombolysis Reperfusion for Acute Myocardial Infarction Treatment-Thrombolysis In Myocardial Infarction 25) study.
AB  - Based on a U.S. model of health care economics, the strategy of using enoxaparin instead of UFH as adjunctive therapy for fibrinolysis in patients with STEMI is cost effective according to commonly used benchmarks.

UI  - 19734185
TI  - Regional functions of the left ventricle in patients with coronary slow flow and the effects of nebivolol.
AB  - Nebivolol may therefore be useful in improving angina, exercise capacity and LV functions in patients with CSF.

UI  - 19717185
TI  - Bivalirudin in patients undergoing primary angioplasty for acute myocardial infarction (HORIZONS-AMI): 1-year results of a randomised controlled trial.
AB  - Cardiovascular Research Foundation, with unrestricted grant support from Boston Scientific Corporation and The Medicines Company.

UI  - 19682233
TI  - Marked reduction of early stent thrombosis with pre-hospital initiation of high-dose Tirofiban in ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction.
AB  - Pre-hospital initiation of high-dose tirofiban reduces the 30-day incidence of stent thrombosis in STEMI patients treated with primary PCI and stenting. Early stent thrombosis and pre-hospital initiation of high-dose tirofiban were independent predictors of 30-day mortality.

UI  - 19681659
TI  - The effects of short-term norepinephrine up-titration on hemodynamics in cardiogenic shock.
AB  - A higher mean arterial pressure (MAP) achieved by norepinephrine up-titration may improve organ blood flow in critically ill, whereas norepinephrine-induced afterload rise might worsen myocardial function. Our aim was to assess the effects of norepinephrine dose titration on global hemodynamics in cardiogenic shock. We prospectively evaluated 12 mechanically ventilated euvolemic patients (aged 67 +/- 12 years) in cardiogenic shock (10 patients acute myocardial infarction, 1 patient dilated cardiomyopathy, 1 patient decompensated aortic stenosis). Hemodynamic monitoring included arterial and Swan-Ganz catheters. The first data were obtained at MAP of 65 mm Hg, then the norepinephrine dose was increased over 40 min to achieve MAP of 85 mm Hg. Finally, the norepinephrine-dose was tapered over 40 min to achieve MAP of 65 mm Hg. Norepinephrine up-titration increased MAP to the predefined values in all patients with concomitant mild increase in filling pressures and heart rate. Systemic vascular resistance increased, whereas cardiac output remained unchanged. During norepinephrine down-titration, all hemodynamic parameters returned to baseline values. We observed no changes in lactate levels and mixed venous oxygen saturation. Our data suggest that short-term norepinephrine dose up-titration in cardiogenic shock patients treated or pretreated with inotropes was tolerated well by the diseased heart.

UI  - 19671333
TI  - [Clinical outcomes of trimetazidine in patients with acute ST segment elevation myocardial infarction without ST segment resolution after primary percutaneous coronary intervention].
AB  - Use of TMZ for patients with acute STEMI without STR after primary PCI can improve the left ventricular function at Days 30 and 180.

UI  - 19668789
TI  - Effectiveness of a change in reperfusion strategy to primary percutaneous coronary intervention in a nonselected population.
AB  - In the present nonselected population, the change in reperfusion strategy from fibrinolysis to primary PCI in the treatment of STEMI reduced the length of hospitalization by two days and was associated with an adjusted 54% relative reduction in adverse in-hospital events, which was largely due to a significant reduction in reinfarction.

UI  - 19662337
TI  - Tissue plasminogen activator antigen predicts medium-term left ventricular end-systolic volume after acute myocardial infarction.
AB  - Von Willebrand factor (VWF) and tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA) predict adverse cardiovascular outcome following acute myocardial infarction (AMI) and are weakly associated with pre-discharge left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF). We examined the relationships between VWF, t-PA antigen, matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-2,-3, and -9, and B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP), and their predictive effect on serial change in LV volumes in a cohort of patients admitted with AMI. Plasma VWF, t-PA antigen, MMP-2,-3,-9, and BNP were measured at a mean 46 h after AMI in 100 patients (mean age 58.9 +/- 12 years, 77% male) with depressed LVEF. Cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) imaging was then performed. Biomarker measurement and CMR were repeated at 12 and 24 weeks. Plasma concentrations of VWF, BNP and MMP-9 were elevated while t-PA antigen concentration was at the upper limits of normal; over 24 weeks VWF, t-PA antigen, MMP-9 and BNP decreased significantly. Baseline VWF correlated with BNP (r = 0.35, P < 0.001) and MMP-3 (r = 0.24, P = 0.019) as did t-PA antigen (r = 0.27, P = 0.007 for BNP; r = 0.40, P < 0.001 for MMP-3). t-PA antigen, VWF, MMP-3 and BNP were univariate predictors of LV end-systolic volume at 24 weeks; tPA antigen and BNP remained significant independent predictors on multivariate analysis. t-PA antigen and VWF are related to medium-term LV volumes after AMI, and to MMP-3. This novel link between the coagulation-fibrinolysis system and matrix turnover merits further study in understanding the pathophysiology of adverse ventricular remodeling after AMI.

UI  - 19660597
TI  - Relation between myocardial infarct size and ventricular tachyarrhythmia among patients with preserved left ventricular ejection fraction following fibrinolytic therapy for ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction.
AB  - In the era of early reperfusion therapy for ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction, preserved left ventricular (LV) function is common. Despite preservation of LV ejection fraction (LVEF), there remains a spectrum of risk for adverse cardiovascular events, including ventricular tachycardia (VT) and ventricular fibrillation (VF). Larger infarct size has been independently associated with death, VT/VF, and heart failure in the post-myocardial infarction population. It was hypothesized that infarct size, as estimated by peak serum creatine kinase (CK)-MB concentration, would be associated with the incidence of VT/VF in patients with preserved LV function after ST-segment elevation myocardial infarctions. The Clopidogrel as Adjunctive Reperfusion Therapy-Thrombolysis In Myocardial Infarction 28 (CLARITY-TIMI 28) study enrolled 3,491 patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarctions who underwent fibrinolytic therapy. The association between estimated infarct size (ratio of peak CK-MB to the upper limit of normal), the LVEF (measured using left ventriculography or echocardiography), and the incidence of VT/VF through 30 days was assessed. A total of 1,436 patients underwent assessments of LV function, of whom 1,133 had adequate CK-MB for analysis. The median LVEF in this group was 55% (interquartile range 45% to 65%), and most patients (n = 814 [87.1%]) had LVEF > or =40%. Among patients with LVEF > or =40%, the ratio of peak CK-MB to the upper limit of normal was significantly associated with the incidence of VT/VF through 30 days (2.2%, 3.7%, and 5.5% across tertiles, respectively, p = 0.041 for trend) and the incidence of the composite of cardiovascular death, heart failure, shock, and VT/VF through 30 days (3.7%, 6.0%, 8.5%, respectively, p = 0.018 for trend). In conclusion, in patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction with preserved LV function after reperfusion therapy, larger infarct size, as estimated by peak serum CK-MB concentration, is significantly associated with VT/VF as well as other adverse clinical outcomes.

UI  - 19660594
TI  - Plasma triglycerides and cardiovascular events in the Treating to New Targets and Incremental Decrease in End-Points through Aggressive Lipid Lowering trials of statins in patients with coronary artery disease.
AB  - We determined the ability of in-trial measurements of triglycerides (TGs) to predict new cardiovascular events (CVEs) using data from the Incremental Decrease in End Points through Aggressive Lipid Lowering (IDEAL) and Treating to New Targets (TNT) trials. The trials compared atorvastatin 80 mg/day with moderate-dose statin therapy (simvastatin 20 to 40 mg/day in IDEAL and atorvastatin 10 mg/day in TNT) in patients with clinically evident coronary heart disease or a history of myocardial infarction. The outcome measurement in the present research was CVE occurring after the first year of the trial. After adjusting for age, gender, and study, risk of CVEs increased with increasing TGs (p <0.001 for trend across quintiles of TGs). Patients in the highest quintile had a 63% higher rate of CVEs than patients in the lowest quintile (hazard ratio 1.63, 95% confidence interval 1.46 to 1.81) and the relation of TGs to risk was apparent even within the normal range of TGs. The ability of TG measurements to predict risk decreased when high-density lipoprotein cholesterol and apolipoprotein B:apolipoprotein A-1 were included in the statistical analysis, and it was abolished with inclusion of further variables (diabetes, body mass index, glucose, hypertension, and smoking; (p = 0.044 and 0.621, respectively, for trend across quintiles of TGs). Similar results were obtained in patients in whom low-density lipoprotein cholesterol had been lowered to guideline-recommended levels. In conclusion, even slightly increased TG levels are associated with higher risk of recurrence of CVEs in statin-treated patients and should be considered a useful marker of risk.

UI  - 19656211
TI  - Serum cholesterol levels on admission and survival in patients with acute myocardial infarction treated with zofenopril: a post hoc analysis of the Survival of Myocardial Infarction Long-term Evaluation trial.
AB  - To evaluate the clinical efficacy of early angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibition by zofenopril in patients with anterior myocardial infarction and normal or high plasma low density lipoprotein-cholesterolaemia. Post hoc analysis of the Survival of Myocardial Infarction Long-Term Evaluation study, a double-blind, clinical trial including 1400 patients with anterior myocardial infarction, randomized to zofenopril (n = 699, 66% hypercholesterolemics) or placebo (n = 701, 64% hypercholesterolemics) for 6 weeks. The rate of the primary end-point (6-week combined occurrence of death and severe congestive heart failure) was 8.1% in hypercholesterolemic and 6.4% in normocholesterolemic patients (P < 0.03). The favourable effect of treatment with zofenopril was enhanced in hypercholesterolemics patients when compared with normocholesterolemics (RRR = 43%, P = 0.034 vs. 25%, P = 0.19). One-year mortality was 10% in hypercholesterolemic patients vs. 7.5% in normocholesterolemic patients (P = 0.037), equally reduced in both hypercholesterolemic and normocholesterolemics patients by zofenopril. The presence of hypercholesterolaemia in patients with anterior myocardial infarction could be associated with more favourable effects of early ACE-inhibition.

UI  - 19632524
TI  - Rationale and design of assessment of lipophilic vs. hydrophilic statin therapy in acute myocardial infarction (the ALPS-AMI) study.
AB  - This is the first multicenter trial to compare the effects and safety of lipophilic and hydrophilic statin therapy in Japanese patients with AMI. It addresses an important issue and could influence the use of statin treatment in the secondary prevention of coronary artery disease.

UI  - 19631970
TI  - Prior simvastatin treatment is associated with reduced thrombin generation and platelet activation in patients with acute ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction.
AB  - Prior simvastatin use is associated with lower thrombin generation and platelet activation following vascular injury in the early phase of STEMI.

UI  - 19604542
TI  - A randomised study comparing the antiplatelet and antiinflammatory effect of clopidogrel 150 mg/day versus 75 mg/day in patients with ST-segment elevation acute myocardial infarction and poor responsiveness to clopidogrel: results from the DOUBLE study.
AB  - In patients with STEMI and poor responsiveness to clopidogrel a 150 mg daily maintenance dose of clopidogrel is associated with a significant reduction of platelet aggregation and a trend towards reduced inflammation.

UI  - 19576349
TI  - Timing, causes, and predictors of death after three years' follow-up in the Danish Multicenter Randomized Study of Fibrinolysis versus Primary Angioplasty in Acute Myocardial Infarction (DANAMI-2) trial.
AB  - This study evaluated the timing, causes, and predictors of death during long-term follow-up after primary angioplasty with stent implantation versus in-hospital fibrinolysis with a tissue plasminogen activator (alteplase). We randomized 1,572 patients with ST-elevation myocardial infarction to primary angioplasty or alteplase and followed them for 3 years. The causes of death were prospectively assessed by an end point committee unaware of the study treatment. A total of 225 patients (14.3%) died, 113 within the first 30 days and 112 between 31 days and 3 years. The mortality and causes of death did not differ between the 2 treatments. The causes of death were cardiogenic shock/congestive heart failure (41%), sudden death (17%), other cardiac death (10%), cancer (12%), and other noncardiac death (20%). Cardiac death was predominant during the first month only (86% of early deaths), and noncardiac death and cardiac death were equally frequent after 30 days (49% and 51% of late deaths, respectively). Independent predictors of death after discharge were age, left ventricular ejection fraction, diabetes, Killip class, and a lack of treatment with a beta blocker or statin. In conclusion, the causes of death did not differ between alteplase treatment and primary angioplasty with stent implantation. One half of the deaths within 3 years after ST-elevation myocardial infarction occurred during the first 30 days, and cardiac death was predominant during the first 30 days only.

UI  - 19576348
TI  - Comparison of rapamycin- and paclitaxel-eluting stents in patients undergoing primary percutaneous coronary intervention for ST-elevation myocardial infarction.
AB  - Compared with bare metal stents, sirolimus- and paclitaxel-eluting stents (SESs and PESs, respectively) have been shown to improve angiographic and clinical outcomes after percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) in elective patients and those with ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI). The aim of the present study was to compare SESs with PESs in patients with STEMI undergoing primary PCI. Patients with STEMI were randomized 1:1 to receive SESs (n = 196) or PESs (n = 201). The primary end point was late lumen loss at 9-month follow-up by quantitative coronary angiography. Secondary end points were major adverse cardiac clinical events (death, reinfarction, target vessel revascularization) at 1 month and 9 and 12 months. Three hundred ninety-seven patients with STEMI were randomized. The 2 groups had comparable baseline clinical and angiographic characteristics. Mortality was low, 1.5% after 30 days, 2.3% after 9 months, and 3.1% after 1 year. There was no difference in any clinical outcome at any follow-up period between the 2 treatment groups. Follow-up angiography was completed in 272 of 397 patients (69%). Mean +/- SD in-stent late loss was 0.01 +/- 0.42 mm in the SES group versus 0.21 +/- 0.50 mm in the PES group (difference -0.20 mm, p = 0.001). In conclusion, in patients with STEMI, primary PCI with SESs results in less late loss compared with PESs. However, these benefits did not translate into a significant decrease in major adverse cardiac events at 1-year follow-up.

UI  - 19576338
TI  - Usefulness of beta blockers in high-risk patients after myocardial infarction in conjunction with captopril and/or valsartan (from the VALsartan In Acute Myocardial Infarction [VALIANT] trial).
AB  - Concern has been raised about combining beta blockers with angiotensin-receptor blockers in patients with heart failure. The VALsartan In Acute myocardial infarction (VALIANT) trial enrolled 14,703 patients with myocardial infarction complicated by heart failure or documented left ventricular systolic dysfunction. These patients were randomly allocated to treatment with valsartan, captopril, or both. Physicians were also encouraged to prescribe beta blockers because of previous evidence of benefit. The baseline characteristics, treatments, and outcomes were compared among 4 groups: patients taking beta blockers at admission only, at discharge only, at both admission and discharge, and neither. Patients treated with beta blockers were at lower risk than those not treated at any period. Those treated with beta blockers at both intervals had a lower 3-year mortality rate (17.7%) than those treated only at randomization (30.7%) or only at discharge (25.9%). The greatest mortality (35.1%) occurred in patients not treated at either point. No statistically significant interaction with prognosis was observed between beta-blocker use and treatment with valsartan or valsartan plus captopril. Patients discharged with a beta blocker had a significant survival advantage after adjustment for differences in baseline characteristics and intervening complications (hazard ratio 0.89, 95% confidence interval 0.81 to 0.98, p = 0.02). This association was most pronounced in patients prescribed consistent beta blockers at randomization and discharge and was present in both patients with impaired and those with preserved systolic left ventricular function. These results have further confirmed that beta blockers reduce the risk of death and nonfatal cardiovascular events in patients with heart failure or systolic left ventricular dysfunction after myocardial infarction. In conclusion, no evidence was found of adverse interactions between the angiotensin-receptor blocker valsartan and beta blockers or of a negative effect of the combination of valsartan, captopril, and beta blockers.

UI  - 19569068
TI  - Upstream high-dose tirofiban does not reduce myocardial infarct size in patients undergoing primary percutaneous coronary intervention: a magnetic resonance imaging pilot study.
AB  - Despite the improvement of initial TIMI flow grade, the upstream use of high-dose tirofiban did not reduce myocardial infarct size measured by CE-MRI.

UI  - 19556260
TI  - Gastrointestinal bleeding in high risk survivors of myocardial infarction: the VALIANT Trial.
AB  - Following MI, clinical characteristics can identify patients with increased risk of GI bleeding. The use of dual antiplatelet agents appears to be the most profound risk factor. Whether these patients would benefit from GI prophylaxis therapy remains unknown.

UI  - 19553646
TI  - Routine early angioplasty after fibrinolysis for acute myocardial infarction.
AB  - Among high-risk patients who had a myocardial infarction with ST-segment elevation and who were treated with fibrinolysis, transfer for PCI within 6 hours after fibrinolysis was associated with significantly fewer ischemic complications than was standard treatment. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00164190.)

UI  - 19549250
TI  - High cortisol levels in hyperglycaemic myocardial infarct patients signify stress hyperglycaemia and predict subsequent normalization of glucose tolerance.
AB  - Both the level of hyperglycaemia and cortisol levels on admission are predictive for the subsequent abnormal glucose tolerance development in hyperglycaemic AMI patients. Hyperglycaemia in patients who are more unwell (i.e. higher cortisol) reflects the stressed state rather than underlying glucose intolerance. Conversely, if the patient is less sick (i.e. lower cortisol), hyperglycaemia is more likely to reflect underlying glucose intolerance.

UI  - 19528339
TI  - Triple versus dual antiplatelet therapy in patients with acute ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction undergoing primary percutaneous coronary intervention.
AB  - Triple antiplatelet therapy seems to be superior to dual antiplatelet therapy in patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction undergoing primary percutaneous coronary intervention with drug-eluting stents. These results may provide the rationale for the use of triple antiplatelet therapy in these patients.

UI  - 19515873
TI  - Folic acid-based intervention in non-ST elevation acute coronary syndromes.
AB  - Homocysteinemia is a risk factor for cardiovascular diseases. Folic acid combined with vitamins B(6) and B(12) is effective in lowering homocysteine levels. This randomized placebo-controlled study was designed to determine the effect of a folic acid-based supplement on secondary prevention of clinical events in non-ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndromes. The study comprised 240 patients with either unstable angina or non-ST-elevation myocardial infarction in the previous 2 weeks who were randomized to a folate group (n =116) or a placebo group (n =124). The folate group received 1 mg folic acid, 400 microg vitamin B(12), and 10 mg vitamin B(6) daily. Clinical outcomes within 6 months were assessed. The composite endpoint of death, nonfatal acute coronary syndrome, and serious re-hospitalization was significantly higher in the folate group; serious re-hospitalization alone was significantly higher in this group. Advanced age and diabetes increased susceptibility to the composite outcome. Folic acid-based supplementation is not beneficial and may even be harmful in the secondary prevention of cardiovascular events in patients with unstable angina and non-ST-elevation myocardial infarction. Further studies on the safety of such supplements are suggested. Controlled Clinical Trials Registry no. ISRCTN30249553.

UI  - 19506374
TI  - The FDA prasugrel review: adjudication of myocardial infarction controversy.
AB  - 

UI  - 19496901
TI  - Impact of thienopyridine administration prior to primary stenting in acute myocardial infarction.
AB  - The impact of thienopyridine administration prior to primary stenting in acute myocardial infarction (AMI) has not been well studied. We therefore examined the database from the prospective, multicenter, controlled CADILLAC trial in which 1,036 patients were randomized to bare metal stenting with or without abciximab to determine whether patients who received a thienopyridine prior to bare metal stenting in AMI had superior clinical outcomes. Per operator discretion, 659 patients (63.6%; Th+) received either a 500 mg ticlopidine loading dose (n = 623) or a 300 mg clopidogrel loading dose (n = 40), while 377 patients (36.4%; Th-) received no thienopyridine prior to stent implantation. Baseline and procedural characteristics of the two groups, including abciximab use (52.5% vs 52.8%, P = 0.93) were well matched. Th+ compared to Th- patients had lower rates of core lab assessed TIMI 0/1 flow postprocedure (0.8% vs 2.7%, P = 0.01). Th+ compared to Th- patients also had significantly reduced in-hospital and 30-day rates of ischemic target vessel revascularization (TVR) (1.1% vs 3.2%, P = 0.01 and 1.5% vs 3.8%, P = 0.02, respectively) and major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) (2.7% vs 5.8%, P = 0.01 and 4.0% vs 6.9%, P = 0.03, respectively), results that remained significant after covariate adjustment. In conclusion, in this large prospective, controlled trial, patients receiving a thienopyridine prior to primary stenting in AMI were less likely to have TIMI 0/1 flow postprocedure and experienced reduced in-hospital and 30-day rates of ischemic TVR and MACE compared to those not administered a thienopyridine prior to stent implantation.

UI  - 19493393
TI  - Prognostic factors affecting the all-cause death and sudden cardiac death rates of post myocardial infarction patients with low left ventricular ejection fraction.
AB  - In the post-MI patients with low LVEF, factors as LVEF < or = 20%, age > or = 70 years, presence of ventricular tachycardia, and NYHA heart failure class > or = III predict an adverse outcome. The presence of sustained ventricular tachycardia and age > or = 70 years was associated with occurrence of SCD in these patients.

UI  - 19483355
TI  - Effects of enalapril and losartan in left ventricular remodeling after acute myocardial infarction: a possible mechanism of prevention of cardiac events by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and angiotensin receptor blockers in high-risk myocardial infarction.
AB  - The results of this study suggest that neither enalapril nor losartan is superior to the other in terms of the effect on LV remodeling after MI in Japanese patients. In addition, the suppressive effect of both classes of drugs on LV remodeling was greater in patients with more extensive infarction and greater compromise of LV function at baseline.

UI  - 19467699
TI  - Mean platelet volume predicts patency of the infarct-related artery before mechanical reperfusion and short-term mortality in patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction undergoing primary percutaneous coronary intervention.
AB  - An increased MPV is an independent predictor of both a patent IRA (TIMI flow 2 or 3 before PPCI) and 30-day mortality. This marker may be able to identify patients requiring more aggressive antiplatelet therapy.

UI  - 19463352
TI  - Reduced-dose fibrinolytic acceleration of ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction treatment coupled with urgent percutaneous coronary intervention compared to primary percutaneous coronary intervention alone results of the AMICO (Alliance for Myocardial Infarction Care Optimization) Registry.
AB  - The FAST-PCI strategy reduced the mortality and combined end point of death, reinfarction, and stroke among STEMI patients, without increasing the risk of stroke or bleeding, compared to PPCI. Fibrinolysis before hospital admission also increased the initial infarct-related artery patency and decreased the likelihood of shock at presentation.

UI  - 19463196
TI  - A cluster randomised trial to assess the impact of clinical pathways on AMI management in rural Australian emergency departments.
AB  - Australia New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry code ACTRN12608000209392.

UI  - 19447837
TI  - Low-dose nesiritide in human anterior myocardial infarction suppresses aldosterone and preserves ventricular function and structure: a proof of concept study.
AB  - 72 h infusion of low BNP at the time of anterior AMI is well tolerated and biologically active. Patients treated with low-dose BNP had improved LVEF and smaller LV end-systolic volume at 1 month.

UI  - 19435740
TI  - Pharmacodynamic assessment of platelet inhibition by prasugrel vs. clopidogrel in the TRITON-TIMI 38 trial.
AB  - The TRITON-TIMI 38 platelet substudy shows that prasugrel results in greater inhibition of ADP-mediated platelet function in ACS patients than clopidogrel, supporting the hypothesis that greater platelet inhibition leads to a lower incidence of ischaemic events and more bleeding both early and late following PCI.

UI  - 19429632
TI  - Comparison of primary angioplasty and pre-hospital fibrinolysis in acute myocardial infarction (CAPTIM) trial: a 5-year follow-up.
AB  - The 5-year follow-up is consistent with the 30-day outcomes of the trial, showing similar mortality for primary percutaneous coronary intervention and a policy of pre-hospital lysis followed by transfer to an interventional center. In addition, for patients treated within 2 h of symptom onset, 5-year mortality was lower with pre-hospital lysis.

UI  - 19427432
TI  - Comparative effect of atorvastatin (80 mg) versus simvastatin (20 to 40 mg) in preventing hospitalizations for heart failure in patients with previous myocardial infarction.
AB  - We investigated whether intensive cholesterol lowering could more effectively prevent heart failure (HF) in secondary prevention. The IDEAL study was a 4.8-year prospective, randomized trial comparing "usual" simvastatin treatment (20 to 40 mg/day, n = 4,449) with high-dose atorvastatin (80 mg/day, n = 4,439) in patients with a history of myocardial infarction (MI). At baseline, 94% of patients (n = 8,351) had no history of HF. During the course of the trial, there were 222 new or recurrent hospitalizations for HF (57 and 165 in those with and without HF at baseline, respectively), 123 (2.8%) in the simvastatin group and 99 (2.2%) in the atorvastatin group (hazard ratio [HR] 0.81, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.62 to 1.05, p = 0.11). After adjustments, atorvastatin 80 mg was associated with a 26% decrease of new HF events compared with simvastatin 20 to 40 mg (HR 0.74, 95% CI 0.57 to 0.97, p = 0.03). Atorvastatin tended to be associated with fewer HF events in those with HF at baseline (n = 537, HR 0.65, 95% CI 0.38 to 1.11, p = 0.11) and those without HF at baseline (n = 8,351, HR 0.80, 95% CI 0.59 to 1.09, p = 0.15). Also, HF without preceding MI (n = 187) was decreased (HR 0.73, 95% CI 0.54 to 0.97, p = 0.03). In conclusion, atorvastatin 80 mg was more efficient than simvastatin 20 to 40 mg in preventing development of HF in patients with previous MI.

UI  - 19422982
TI  - Paclitaxel- versus sirolimus-eluting stents for unprotected left main coronary artery disease.
AB  - Implantation of either PES or SES in uLMCA lesions is safe and effective; both of these drug-eluting stents provide comparable clinical and angiographic outcomes. (Drug-Eluting-Stents for Unprotected Left Main Stem Disease [ISAR-LEFT-MAIN]; NCT00133237).

UI  - 19420364
TI  - Paclitaxel-eluting stents versus bare-metal stents in acute myocardial infarction.
AB  - In patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction who were undergoing primary PCI, implantation of paclitaxel-eluting stents, as compared with bare-metal stents, significantly reduced angiographic evidence of restenosis and recurrent ischemia necessitating repeat revascularization procedures. No safety concerns were apparent at 1 year. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00433966.)

UI  - 19406871
TI  - Effects of perindopril on cardiac remodelling and prognostic value of pre-discharge quantitative echocardiographic parameters in elderly patients after acute myocardial infarction: the PREAMI echo sub-study.
AB  - Remodelling occurs in post-AMI in elderly patients with normal LV function. Echo-Doppler variables at baseline have prognostic implications. Treatment with perindopril reduces progressive LV remodelling that can occur even in the case of small infarct size.

UI  - 19406064
TI  - In-hospital outcomes associated with fibrinolytic and thienopyridine use in patients with ST-segment elevation acute myocardial infarction. The global registry of acute coronary events.
AB  - Thienopyridine treatment was associated with an increased risk of major bleeding but also with a better in-hospital prognosis. These findings in unselected patients with STEMI, who are representative of those seen in daily clinical practice, complement, but do not replace, the data obtained in randomized clinical trails of selected patients.

UI  - 19398668
TI  - Extracellular cardiac matrix biomarkers in patients with acute myocardial infarction complicated by left ventricular dysfunction and heart failure: insights from the Eplerenone Post-Acute Myocardial Infarction Heart Failure Efficacy and Survival Study (EPHESUS) study.
AB  - Changes in biomarkers of collagen synthesis and degradation suggest that extracellular matrix remodeling is an active process in patients with congestive heart failure and left ventricular systolic dysfunction after acute myocardial infarction. High type I collagen telopeptide and high brain natriuretic peptide serum levels are associated with the highest event rate. Eplerenone suppresses post-acute myocardial infarction collagen turnover changes.

UI  - 19380134
TI  - Intracoronary versus intravenous abciximab administration in patients with ST-elevation myocardial infarction undergoing thrombus aspiration during primary percutaneous coronary intervention--effects on soluble CD40 ligand concentrations.
AB  - In STEMI patients undergoing primary PCI, IC bolus administration of abciximab was associated with a larger reduction in sCD40L levels compared to standard IV bolus. Whether this more powerful anti-inflammatory effect of IC abciximab translates into improved clinical outcomes deserves investigation.

UI  - 19376786
TI  - Influence of different antiplatelet treatment regimens for primary percutaneous coronary intervention on all-cause mortality.
AB  - In this large cohort, multicentre STEMI registry in-cath-lab use of GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors and clopidogrel alone or in combination was associated with the reduction of 1 year all-cause mortality in the setting of primary PCI in comparison with aspirin only. However, the use of GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors on top of 300 mg loading dose of clopidogrel did not further reduce mortality.

UI  - 19360864
TI  - Multicenter randomized trial of facilitated percutaneous coronary intervention with low-dose tenecteplase in patients with acute myocardial infarction: the Athens PCI trial.
AB  - Facilitated PCI with low-dose tenecteplase in patients presenting with STEMI was associated with a high IRA patency rate before PCI.

UI  - 19358940
TI  - Interaction between cigarette smoking and clinical benefit of clopidogrel.
AB  - Cigarette smoking seems to positively modify the beneficial effect of clopidogrel on angiographic and clinical outcomes. This study demonstrates that common clinical factors that influence the metabolism of clopidogrel might impact its clinical effectiveness.

UI  - 19356485
TI  - Prognostic implications of left ventricular mass and geometry following myocardial infarction: the VALIANT (VALsartan In Acute myocardial iNfarcTion) Echocardiographic Study.
AB  - Increased baseline LV mass and abnormal LV geometry portend an increased risk for morbidity and mortality following high-risk myocardial infarction. Concentric LV hypertrophy carries the greatest risk of adverse cardiovascular events including death. Higher RWT was associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular complications after high-risk myocardial infarction.

UI  - 19351633
TI  - Plasma apelin concentration is depressed following acute myocardial infarction in man.
AB  - Plasma apelin concentration is reduced early after AMI, increases significantly over time, but remains depressed at 24 weeks.

UI  - 19347740
TI  - Effects of aldosterone blockade on left ventricular function and clinical status during acute myocardial infarction.
AB  - In concordance with these findings, the ejection fraction was slightly higher in Group A than in Group B, although this was not statistically significant (47% versus 44%). This trend continued during a 6-month follow-up after randomization. Our findings suggest that early administration of aldosterone blockers provides additional benefits after AMI, reducing the incidence of post-MI angina pectoris and rhythm and conduction disturbances.

UI  - 19346662
TI  - Inhibitory effect of valsartan against progression of left ventricular dysfunction after myocardial infarction: T-VENTURE study.
AB  - Valsartan exhibits similar efficacy effective to that of ACEI in preventing left ventricular dysfunction in Japanese patients with acute MI, and is, in addition, better tolerated than ACEI.

UI  - 19332467
TI  - Abciximab in patients with acute ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction undergoing primary percutaneous coronary intervention after clopidogrel loading: a randomized double-blind trial.
AB  - Upstream administration of abciximab is not associated with a reduction in infarct size in patients presenting with acute myocardial infarction within 24 hours of symptom onset and receiving 600 mg clopidogrel.

UI  - 19332194
TI  - Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction (TIMI) Risk Index predicts long-term mortality and heart failure in patients with ST-elevation myocardial infarction in the TIMI 2 clinical trial.
AB  - The simple TRI can predict increased long-term mortality, CHF, and composite death/CHF.

UI  - 19322096
TI  - Adherence-adjusted efficacy with intensive versus standard statin therapy in patients with acute myocardial infarction in the IDEAL study.
AB  - This study found that the difference in adherence between treatment groups may have underestimated the true effect of the treatment differential. Usage of prospective randomized open label endpoint evaluation design should be carefully considered when well-known treatments are compared with rather new ones and especially in segments where patients could be more vulnerable, as in the elderly. Nonadherers in a clinical trial may be at especially high risk of fatal and nonfatal endpoints from various diseases and should be carefully monitored.

UI  - 19321493
TI  - Efficacy and safety of pioglitazone in patients with ST elevation myocardial infarction treated with primary stent implantation.
AB  - Treatment of pioglitazone reduced neointimal hyperplasia in patients with STEMI treated with primary stent implantation without placing the patient at increased risk of complications. Additional larger trials will be necessary to establish the clinical benefit of pioglitazone.

UI  - 19317161
TI  - [Effect of yiqi wenyang huoxue recipe on bone marrow stem cells' mobilization and its influence on heart function in patients with myocardial infarction].
AB  - YWHR has a good effect on bone marrow stem cell mobilization, it can reduce the infarcted area and improve the heart function of patients with acute MI.

UI  - 19288047
TI  - The safety and efficacy of clopidogrel versus ticlopidine in Japanese stroke patients: combined results of two Phase III, multicenter, randomized clinical trials.
AB  - Two Phase III studies comparing the safety and efficacy of clopidogrel with ticlopidine as antiplatelet agents for the secondary prevention of vascular events in patients with prior stroke were performed in Japan. Both studies were randomized, double-blind, double-dummy comparative trials with the primary objective of comparing the clinical safety of treatment with either clopidogrel or ticlopidine for up to 12 months. The secondary objective was to assess the incidence of a combined efficacy endpoint of cerebral infarction, myocardial infarction, and vascular death. Patients with prior stroke were recruited during July 1996-February 1998 and September 2001-November 2003 at centers across Japan. The results of the two studies were combined in this analysis. There were 1,869 patients in the safety population (clopidogrel, 941; ticlopidine, 928). Significantly, fewer patients experienced a safety event in the clopidogrel group than in the ticlopidine group (p < 0.001; hazard ratio, 0.610; 95% confidence interval 0.529, 0.703). Almost twice as many patients in the ticlopidine group (25.6%) experienced hepatic dysfunction than in the clopidogrel group (13.4%). There were 1,862 patients evaluable for efficacy (clopidogrel, 939; ticlopidine, 923). There was no significant difference in the incidence of the combined efficacy endpoint between clopidogrel (2.6% of patients) and ticlopidine (2.5%). Clopidogrel was better tolerated than ticlopidine. There was no difference in the efficacy of the two agents with regard to the secondary prevention of vascular events in patients with prior stroke. This was the first combined analysis of direct comparison of clopidogrel with ticlopidine in the clinical setting.

UI  - 19282062
TI  - An analysis of the Association of Society of Chest Pain Centers Accreditation to American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association non-ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction guideline adherence.
AB  - SCPC-accredited hospitals had higher NSTEMI ACC/AHA evidence-based guideline adherence in the first 24 hours of care on 2 of the 5 measures. No difference in outcomes was observed. Further studies are needed to better understand the association between SCPC accreditation and improved care for patients with acute coronary syndrome.

UI  - 19273782
TI  - Long-term benefit of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol-raising therapy with bezafibrate: 16-year mortality follow-up of the bezafibrate infarction prevention trial.
AB  - Our findings suggest that HDL-C level-raising therapy with bezafibrate is associated with long-term mortality reduction that may be related to the degree of HDL-C response to treatment.

UI  - 19271165
TI  - Effect of Chinese drugs for supplementing Qi, nourishing Yin and activating blood circulation on myocardial perfusion in patients with acute myocardial infarction after revascularization.
AB  - Therapy with Chinese drugs for supplementing qi, nourishing yin and activating blood circulation in combination with conventional Western medical treatment could obviously improve the blood perfusion at the myocardial tissue level in infarction-related vascular segments.

UI  - 19268735
TI  - Temporal relation between Clopidogrel cessation and stent thrombosis after drug-eluting stent implantation.
AB  - The risk of late thrombotic events and the need for prolonged dual antiplatelet therapy detract from the clinical advantage offered by drug-eluting stents (DESs). Short-term studies have shown premature clopidogrel cessation to be a strong predictor of stent thrombosis (ST) after DES implantation. Data pertaining to the utility of clopidogrel therapy and its optimal duration to prevent late ST remain limited. The study population consisted of 2,889 patients who underwent unrestricted intracoronary DES implantation from April 2003 to January 2007 for whom clopidogrel compliance data were available. Definite ST proved by angiography or autopsy within 12 months of the index procedure occurred in 61 patients. Comparisons of clinical and procedural characteristics in addition to outcomes (death and Q-wave myocardial infarction) were made between the ST and no-ST (2,828 patients) groups. Clopidogrel compliance was assessed at all follow-up time points. For patients in the ST group, clopidogrel compliance status for the remaining study period was defined as that at the time of ST. Logistic regression analysis was performed at 30 days, 6 months, and 12 months to identify independent predictors of cumulative ST. Patients with ST were more likely to have previous congestive heart failure and worse left ventricular ejection fraction. ST was associated with significantly higher mortality at 12 months (23.5% vs 3.2%, p <0.001). Clopidogrel compliance was 80.2% in the overall population and 73.8% in patients presenting with ST (82.6% in patients presenting with early ST and 43.8% in those with late ST). By logistic regression analysis, clopidogrel cessation was an independent predictor of cumulative ST at 30 days and 6 months but not at 12 months. In conclusion, high rates of clopidogrel compliance can be achieved in contemporary practice. Clopidogrel cessation by 12 months is no longer predictive of ST, thus suggesting the optimal duration of therapy for the prevention of ST to be 6 to 12 months.

UI  - 19268732
TI  - Left ventricular function after ST-elevation myocardial infarction in patients treated with primary percutaneous coronary intervention and abciximab or tirofiban (from the Facilitated Angioplasty with Tirofiban or Abciximab [FATA] Trial).
AB  - Abciximab therapy during primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) has shown to ameliorate left ventricular (LV) function recovery in patients with ST elevated myocardial infarction. High-dose bolus tirofiban has similar effect on platelet inhibition. Whether this is associated with comparable efficacy on LV function recovery remains unclear. We sought to evaluate the impact on LV function of high-dose bolus tirofiban or abciximab in patients undergoing primary PCI with the predictors of favorable (> or = 50%) LV ejection fraction (EF) and LV function recovery at 30 days. We studied 314 patients (abciximab n = 154; tirofiban n = 160) undergoing primary PCI in the randomized Facilitated Angioplasty with Tirofiban or Abciximab (FATA) Trial. LVEF was assessed within 48 hours and at 30 days after primary PCI. In patients with systolic dysfunction at baseline, LV function recovery was defined by either increase of LVEF > or = 10% compared with baseline or LVEF > or = 50%. Similar LVEF was observed in the 2 groups postprocedure (abciximab 49.7 +/- 10.1% vs tirofiban 49.3 +/- 10.1%, p = 0.9) and at 30 days (abciximab 53.1 +/- 9.8% vs tirofiban 52.5 +/- 10.2%, p = 0.6). Independent predictors of 30-day LVEF > or = 50% were preprocedure Thrombolysis In Myocardial Infarction flow class >0 (odds ratio = 2.4, 95% confidence interval 1.32 to 4.34), anterior location (odds ratio = 0.25, 95% confidence interval 0.15 to 0.42), and age (odds ratio = 0.97, 95% confidence interval 0.95 to 0.99). Preprocedure Thrombolysis In Myocardial Infarction flow grade >0 was the only predictor of LV function recovery (odds ratio = 6.73, 95% confidence interval 2.69 to 16.88). In conclusion, this study showed no difference in LV function recovery in patients undergoing primary PCI treated either with abciximab or high-dose bolus tirofiban. Preprocedure Thrombolysis In Myocardial Infarction flow grade >0 seems to be the most important predictor of favorable LVEF and LV function recovery at 30 days.

UI  - 19249633
TI  - Prasugrel compared with clopidogrel in patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention for ST-elevation myocardial infarction (TRITON-TIMI 38): double-blind, randomised controlled trial.
AB  - In patients with STEMI undergoing PCI, prasugrel is more effective than clopidogrel for prevention of ischaemic events, without an apparent excess in bleeding.

UI  - 19237657
TI  - Predictors of initial nontherapeutic anticoagulation with unfractionated heparin in ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction.
AB  - Despite the use of a standard weight-based unfractionated heparin nomogram in ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction, nontherapeutic anticoagulation is frequent and more likely among certain vulnerable patient groups, with excess anticoagulation associated with increased bleeding and inadequate anticoagulation associated with reinfarction. These findings should be considered when dosing unfractionated heparin in support of fibrinolytic therapy.

UI  - 19195502
TI  - Effect of beta blockers (metoprolol or propranolol) on effect of simvastatin in lowering C-reactive protein in acute myocardial infarction.
AB  - Recent data indicated that statin therapy may fail to reduce the incidence of coronary events in patients concomitantly using beta blockers. The aim of the present study was to examine whether the concomitant use of beta blockers would modify the anti-inflammatory action of statins. Changes in C-reactive protein (CRP) between days 1 and 5 after myocardial infarction were evaluated in 189 patients treated with simvastatin alone (S), beta blockers alone (B; propranolol or metoprolol), S + B, or neither of these 2 medications (N) in a prospective observational cohort. At baseline, median CRP was lower in the S group (0.40 mg/dl, interquartile range 0.1 to 0.6) than the other groups (B: 0.6 mg/dl, interquartile range 0.4 to 1.6; S + B: 0.5 mg/dl, interquartile range 0.3 to 1.2; and N: 0.6 mg/dl, interquartile range 0.2 to 1.5). By day 5, median CRP was 1.3 mg/dl (interquartile range 0.7 to 2.6), 4.3 (interquartile range 1.6 to 8.8), 4.6 (interquartile range 2.8 to 9.5), and 4.4 (interquartile range 1.9 to 9.9) for the S, B, S + B, and N groups, respectively. After adjusting for log(e) baseline CRP, the difference in log(e) CRP between days 1 and 5 was significantly lower in the S group compared with the B (-0.74 +/- 0.23 [SE], p = 0.001) or S + B group (-0.99 +/- 0.20 [SE], p <0.0001). The significance remained after adjustment for age, gender, and baseline CRP. There was no significant difference in change in CRP between the SB and B groups. In conclusion, the present study confirmed the anti-inflammatory action of statins and showed that concomitant use of beta blockers may significantly attenuate this effect.

UI  - 19194534
TI  - Predictors of outcome and the lack of effect of percutaneous coronary intervention across the risk strata in patients with persistent total occlusion after myocardial infarction: Results from the OAT (Occluded Artery Trial) study.
AB  - In the OAT study, there was no variation in the effect of PCI on clinical outcomes at different levels of patient risk, including the subset with very high event rates. (Occluded Artery Trial [OAT]; NCT00004562)

UI  - 19188836
TI  - Effect of chronic statin pretreatment on hospital outcome in patients with acute non-ST-elevation myocardial infarction.
AB  - In clinical practice, pretreatment with statins was associated with smaller myocardial infarction size (peak creatine kinase level) and a significant reduction of hospital mortality. However, the data were obtained from an observational study, and the results need further prospective confirmation.

UI  - 19176539
TI  - Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease is an independent predictor of death but not atherosclerotic events in patients with myocardial infarction: analysis of the Valsartan in Acute Myocardial Infarction Trial (VALIANT).
AB  - In high-risk patients with acute MI, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease is associated with increased mortality and non-fatal clinical events (both CV and non-CV). However, patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease did not experience a higher rate of atherosclerotic events.

UI  - 19176538
TI  - Changes in management of elderly patients with myocardial infarction.
AB  - Between 2001 and 2006, a significant increase in the use of guidelines-recommended treatments (GRTs) was observed, associated with lower 30-day mortality, in elderly patients. These data confirm that high-risk patients, such as the elderly, benefit from an increase in the use of GRTs.

UI  - 19171469
TI  - Markers of inflammation, thrombosis and endothelial activation correlate with carotid IMT regression in stable coronary disease after atorvastatin treatment.
AB  - In patients with stable coronary artery disease treated with moderate doses of atorvastatin, carotid IMT regression correlated with changes of inflammation, thrombosis and endothelial activation profiles.

UI  - 19167639
TI  - Early atorvastatin therapy improves cardiac function in patients with acute myocardial infarction.
AB  - Initiation of atorvastatin in the early phase of an AMI has beneficial effects on cardiac function, probably by improving left ventricular remodeling.

UI  - 19139382
TI  - Patient health status and costs in heart failure: insights from the eplerenone post-acute myocardial infarction heart failure efficacy and survival study (EPHESUS).
AB  - Health status assessment predicts resource use and costs over the next year in stable heart failure outpatients with left ventricular dysfunction after myocardial infarction.

UI  - 19121428
TI  - ST resolution 1 hour after fibrinolysis for prediction of myocardial infarct size: insights from ASSENT 3.
AB  - Acute ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction requires prompt restoration of myocardial perfusion to salvage myocardium at risk of ischemic necrosis and improve clinical outcome. Early resolution of ST-segment elevation during the time after reperfusion has been associated with both these end points. From the ASsessment of the Safety and Efficacy of a New Thrombolytic regimen (ASSENT) 3 trial, 3,425 patients were analyzed to investigate whether the amount of ST-segment resolution, divided into 3 groups (complete, >70%; partial, 30% to 70%; and no resolution, <30%), in the first hour after initiation of therapy was a predictor of final infarct size, estimated by peak creatine kinase and Selvester QRS score on the discharge electrocardiogram. Complete compared with partial and no ST resolution resulted in significantly (p<0.001) smaller infarct sizes of 10.5%, 13.2%, and 15.0% of the left ventricle and significantly (p=0.001) fewer patients with peak creatine >5 times the upper reference level at 50.3%, 71.8%, and 76.3%, respectively. In conclusion, our findings supported previous smaller studies suggesting that early resolution of ST elevation, as a sign of early myocardial reperfusion, resulted in less myocardial damage and preservation of left ventricular function.

UI  - 19893090
TI  - Early detection of myocardial viability by hyperbaric oxygenation in patients with acute myocardial infarction treated with thrombolysis.
AB  - Hyperbaric oxygen treatment (HBO) could transiently reverse hypoxia during acute myocardial infarction (AMI). In order to evaluate whether early HBO can identify viable segments after AMI, improvement of wall motion score index (WMSI) after HBO was compared to dobutamine stress echocardiography (DSE). Thirty-one patients with first AMI treated with thrombolysis received 100% oxygen at 2 technical atmospheres for 1 h within 24 h of the onset of chest pain. All patients underwent echocardiography before and after HBO and during DSE. Improvements in WMSI after HBO, as well as during DSE were considered as proof of viability. Total of 186 akinetic segments were detected before HBO. Functional recovery was defined at 73 after HBO and 113 segments were fixed. Eighty-one segments improved contraction with DSE. WMSI improved before HBO compared to the one after HBO (1.79 vs. 1.65, p = 0.024) and DSE (1.79 vs. 1.60, p < 0.001). Close relationship between WMSI after HBO and DSE was found (r = 0.417, p = 0.022). Sensitivity and specificity of HBO for viability were 73% and 85%, respectively. HBO may identify viable myocardium as early as day one after AMI. The highest number of responding segments was detected in patients who received HBO within shortest intervals following the onset of chest pain.

UI  - 19087677
TI  - [Effects of tongxinluo capsule on cardiac ventricle remodeling after myocardial infarction: a multicentre clinical research].
AB  - TXL capsule in addition to conventional therapy has a positive effect on the prognosis of AMI via reversing the ventricular remodeling, and improving cardiac function.

UI  - 19081151
TI  - Exogenous adenosine triphosphate disodium administration during primary percutaneous coronary intervention reduces no-reflow and preserves left ventricular function in patients with acute anterior myocardial infarction: a study using myocardial contrast echocardiography.
AB  - Intravenous ATP administration during reperfusion is an independent determinant of STR and the no-reflow ratio, and LVEF, LVRWM, and LVEDVI at 6 months after primary PCI.

UI  - 19078834
TI  - Prehospital versus periprocedural abciximab in ST-elevation myocardial infarction treated by percutaneous coronary intervention.
AB  - Prehospital intravenous administration of abciximab, although safe and feasible in a trained surrounding, does not add angiographic or clinical benefit to patients with STEMI.

UI  - 19074924
TI  - Relationship of QRS duration at baseline and changes over 60 min after fibrinolysis to 30-day mortality with different locations of ST elevation myocardial infarction: results from the Hirulog and Early Reperfusion or Occlusion-2 trial.
AB  - Baseline QRS duration independently stratifies 30-day mortality in patients with anterior AMI, even when unaccompanied by RBBB, but does not stratify mortality risk in patients with inferior AMI.

UI  - 19074922
TI  - Predictors of infarct artery patency after prehospital thrombolysis: the multicentre, prospective, observational OPTIMAL study.
AB  - This study provides quantitative data for predicting success of prehospital thrombolysis. The nomogram is a simple tool for predicting likelihood of coronary patency, based on clinical and electrocardiographic data. It may help to identify patients who require emergency angiography and rescue percutaneous coronary intervention.

UI  - 19041835
TI  - Cost-effectiveness analysis of aldosterone blockade with eplerenone in patients with heart failure after acute myocardial infarction in the French context: the EPHESUS study.
AB  - The cost of eplerenone leads to an acceptable level of incremental cost per life-year saved when compared with existing treatments in the cardiovascular domain for the prevention of cardiovascular death and morbidity in patients with heart failure after an acute myocardial infarction.

UI  - 19040013
TI  - [Effect of high dose glucose-insulin-potassium infusion in patients with acute ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction: analysis of 7510 patients in China as part of CREATE-ECLA study].
AB  - High dose GIK infusion has neutral effect on mortality, cardiac arrest or cardiogenic shock in patients with acute STEMI in China.

UI  - 19033002
TI  - Design and rationale of CURRENT-OASIS 7: a randomized, 2 x 2 factorial trial evaluating optimal dosing strategies for clopidogrel and aspirin in patients with ST and non-ST-elevation acute coronary syndromes managed with an early invasive strategy.
AB  - The CURRENT-OASIS 7 trial will help to define optimal dosing regimens for clopidogrel and ASA in patients with ST and non-ST-segment-elevation ACS treated with an early invasive strategy.

UI  - 19004441
TI  - Patterns of statin prescription in acute myocardial infarction: the French registry of Acute ST-elevation or non-ST-elevation Myocardial Infarction (FAST-MI).
AB  - Use of statins by French cardiologists in the management of acute myocardial infarction is high, though still suboptimal. Outcomes may be improved by encouraging adherence to current guidelines, promoting the findings of clinical trials illustrating the benefits of intensive statin therapy, and reassessing professional practices in this setting.

UI  - 18973494
TI  - Effects of early losartan therapy on ventricular late potentials in acute myocardial infarction.
AB  - The results of this study showed that losartan treatment, early after an AMI, reduced the incidence of LP and may thus favorably affect arrhythmia substrates.

UI  - 18845667
TI  - Effects of intracoronary injection of mononuclear bone marrow cells on left ventricular function, arrhythmia risk profile, and restenosis after thrombolytic therapy of acute myocardial infarction.
AB  - Intracoronary BMC therapy is associated with an improvement of global LVEF and neutral effects on arrhythmia risk profile and restenosis of the stented coronary lesions in patients after thrombolytic therapy of STEMI.

UI  - 18830566
TI  - Early use of omeprazole benefits patients with acute myocardial infarction.
AB  - Our findings suggest that early use of omeprazole in AMI patients could decrease the incidence of upper gastrointestinal bleeding and the overall mortality, without influencing the recanalization rate. Early use of omeprazole might benefit AMI patients.

UI  - 18827916
TI  - Effects of early treatment with zofenopril in patients with myocardial infarction and metabolic syndrome: the SMILE Study.
AB  - Results of this post-hoc analysis of the SMILE Study demonstrate the striking benefit of early administration of zofenopril in MS+ patients with acute anterior myocardial infarction.

UI  - 18826730
TI  - A door-to-needle time of 30 minutes or less for myocardial infarction thrombolysis is possible in rural emergency departments.
AB  - A DTN time of 30 minutes or less is achievable in rural EDs.

UI  - 18824643
TI  - Serum potassium and clinical outcomes in the Eplerenone Post-Acute Myocardial Infarction Heart Failure Efficacy and Survival Study (EPHESUS).
AB  - Use of selective aldosterone blockade with eplerenone within the dose range of 25 to 50 mg/d in post-acute myocardial infarction patients with heart failure and left ventricular systolic dysfunction who are treated with standard therapy improves outcomes without an excess of risk of hyperkalemia (> or =6.0 mEq/L) when periodic monitoring of serum K(+) is instituted.

UI  - 18822977
TI  - [Clinical observation on injection of small dose of morphine into Neiguan (PC 6) for treatment of chest pain in the patient with acute myocardial infarction].
AB  - Injection of small dose of Morphine into Neiguan (PC 6) has a definite therapeutic effect on chest pain of acute myocardial infarction with earlier analgesic effect, smaller dose of Morphine, longer analgesic duration and less complications.

UI  - 18789020
TI  - [Investigation of converting enzyme inhibitors in patients, survivors of myocardial infarction].
AB  - 

UI  - 18760147
TI  - Use of and inhospital outcomes after early clopidogrel therapy in patients not undergoing an early invasive strategy for treatment of non-ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction: results from Can Rapid risk stratification of Unstable angina patients Suppress ADverse outcomes with Early implementation of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association guidelines (CRUSADE).
AB  - Until recently, up to 50% of NSTEMI patients in contemporary practice in the United States not undergoing PCI within 24 hours of arrival in the United States are not treated according to guideline recommendations. Among a high-risk NSTEMI population not undergoing PCI within 24 hours of arrival, the nonrandomized short-term use of clopidogrel is associated with a lower risk of inhospital mortality without an increased risk of major bleeding.

UI  - 18757948
TI  - Greater clinical benefit of more intensive oral antiplatelet therapy with prasugrel in patients with diabetes mellitus in the trial to assess improvement in therapeutic outcomes by optimizing platelet inhibition with prasugrel-Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction 38.
AB  - Subjects with DM tended to have a greater reduction in ischemic events without an observed increase in TIMI major bleeding and therefore a greater net treatment benefit with prasugrel compared with clopidogrel. These data demonstrate that the more intensive oral antiplatelet therapy provided with prasugrel is of particular benefit to patients with DM.

UI  - 18756743
TI  - [Oxidative stress in myocardial infarction and the efficiency of its correction with the drug Trimetazidine].
AB  - The purpose of the study was to assess efficiency of the use of trimetazidine (Preductal MR) in therapy of acute myocardial infarction (MI) on the grounds of examination of oxidative potential of erythrocytes and blood serum, antioxidative enzyme activity. Group of patients with acute small-focal, large-focal and transmural myocardial infarction, who received traditional therapy and in addition cytoprotective drug trimetazidine, was examined. Primary and secondary products of lipid peroxidation (LP), antioxidative enzymes were analyzed on 1st and 21st day after the beginning of anginous attack. Integral indices for estimation of LP and antioxidative potential were calculated. Primary and secondary products of LP in erythrocytes and blood serum in patients with acute MI were high in 1st day and did not recover to normal after combined therapy. Combined therapy of acute MI with the use of trimetazidine (Preductal MR) made possible to reduce LP, especially at small-focal MI because of increase in enzyme activity of glutathione reductase, glutathione peroxidase and superoxide dismutase with catalase activity retention. Transmural MI was characterized by decrease in blood glutathione reductase and catalase activity, retention of glutathione peroxidase and superoxide dismutase activity, and increase in thiols content.

UI  - 18724013
TI  - Intensive pharmacologic treatment in patients with acute non ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction who did not undergo percutaneous coronary intervention.
AB  - More intensive pharmacological treatment may improve short-term clinical outcomes in acute NSETMI patients who do not undergo PCI.

UI  - 18713759
TI  - Improving clinical outcomes by reducing bleeding in patients with non-ST-elevation acute coronary syndromes.
AB  - Bleeding in patients with ACS is a powerful determinant of fatal and non-fatal outcomes. Reducing the risk of bleeding using a safer anticoagulant strategy during the first 9 days is associated with substantial reductions in morbidity and mortality.

UI  - 18707985
TI  - Prehospital initiation of tirofiban in patients with ST-elevation myocardial infarction undergoing primary angioplasty (On-TIME 2): a multicentre, double-blind, randomised controlled trial.
AB  - Our finding that routine prehospital initiation of high-bolus dose tirofiban improved ST-segment resolution and clinical outcome after PCI, emphasises that further platelet aggregation inhibition besides high-dose clopidogrel is mandated in patients with STEMI undergoing PCI.

UI  - 18688814
TI  - Effects of Bulbus allii macrostemi on clinical outcomes and oxidized low-density lipoprotein and plasminogen in unstable angina/non-ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction patients.
AB  - Unstable angina (UA)/non-ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI) is associated with an increased risk of cardiac death and an efficacious drug with few side effects is necessary. The study aimed to evaluate the effects of Bulbus allii macrostemi (B. macrostemi) on UA/NSTEMI patients as well as to elucidate possible mechanisms. 79 patients were randomly divided into two groups: the trial group received B. macrostemi plus baseline therapy, the control group was given placebo plus baseline therapy. The trial lasted 8 weeks. The evaluation involved main clinical symptoms, changes of electrocardiogram and biochemical examination. After treatment, the trial group showed more significant improvement on clinical manifestation. The plasma oxidized low-density lipoprotein (ox-LDL) level decreased significantly in the trial group (p < 0.01); the plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) level decreased in both groups and it decreased more significantly in the trial group (p < 0.01). In contrast, the activity of plasminogen (PLG) increased in both groups and the change was more marked in the trial group (p < 0.01). The results suggested that B. macrostemi combined with baseline therapy could improve clinical symptoms of UA/NSTEMI patients by decreasing the ox-LDL and PAI-1 levels and enhancing the activity of PLG.

UI  - 18682445
TI  - Reduction in recurrent cardiovascular events with prasugrel compared with clopidogrel in patients with acute coronary syndromes from the TRITON-TIMI 38 trial.
AB  - While standard statistical analytic techniques for clinical trials censor patients who experience a component of the primary composite endpoint, total cardiovascular events remain important to both patients and clinicians. Prasugrel, a more potent anti-platelet agent, reduced both first and subsequent cardiovascular events compared with clopidogrel in patients with ACS.

UI  - 18669426
TI  - Effect of cyclosporine on reperfusion injury in acute myocardial infarction.
AB  - In our small, pilot trial, administration of cyclosporine at the time of reperfusion was associated with a smaller infarct by some measures than that seen with placebo. These data are preliminary and require confirmation in a larger clinical trial.

UI  - 18667247
TI  - Effect of intensive vs standard statin therapy on endothelial progenitor cells and left ventricular function in patients with acute myocardial infarction: Statins for regeneration after acute myocardial infarction and PCI (STRAP) trial.
AB  - An intensive statin treatment after primary or rescue PCI is associated with a higher EPC count at follow up as compared to standard treatment. This beneficial effect did not translate in an improvement of LV function.

UI  - 18664782
TI  - Levosimendan is superior to enoximone in refractory cardiogenic shock complicating acute myocardial infarction.
AB  - In severe and refractory cardiogenic shock complicating acute myocardial infarction, levosimendan, added to current therapy, may contribute to improved survival compared with enoximone.
