
UI  - 23404627
TI  - A multi-histology trial of fostamatinib in patients with advanced colorectal, non-small cell lung, head and neck, thyroid, and renal cell carcinomas, and pheochromocytomas.
AB  - Fostamatinib had limited anti-tumor activity in this first clinical trial in patients with advanced refractory solid tumors; reduction in CECs and CEPs was indicative of anti-angiogenic effects. Abnormal liver testing at baseline appeared to influence drug tolerability.

UI  - 22736481
TI  - Phase 2 study of everolimus monotherapy in patients with nonfunctioning neuroendocrine tumors or pheochromocytomas/paragangliomas.
AB  - Everolimus was associated with high therapeutic efficacy and tolerability in patients with nonfunctioning NETs, and demonstrated modest efficacy in patients with pheochromocytomas/paragangliomas.

UI  - 21264798
TI  - The effect of exogenous glucocorticoids on plasma catecholamines and metanephrines in patients without phaeochromocytomas.
AB  - The aim of the study was to evaluate the effects of steroid administration under standardised conditions in a range of patients both normal and with adrenal pathologies and to review the impact on plasma catecholamines and metanephrines. Corticosteroid administration has been linked to the development of hypertensive crises in patients with phaeochromocytoma, however a mechanism for this is not fully understood. We aimed to add useful information about the effect of steroids on levels of these hormones under usual circumstances. A prospective, observational cohort study of 50 patients undergoing the low-dose dexamethasone suppression test (LDDST) was undertaken. Additional blood samples were taken at the start and end of the standard LDDST. Biochemical analysis was carried out for plasma catecholamines and plasma free metanephrines. Demographic and hormonal data were acquired from review of the notes or measured at baseline. No significant changes in plasma catecholamines or metanephrines were seen at the end of the LDDST compared to baseline. This was also true of subgroup analysis, divided by age, gender, or type of underlying pathology. Our results suggest that hypertensive reaction responses, rare as they are, are unlikely to be related to normal adrenal physiology. Thus LDDST is likely to be safe under most circumstances, however caution should be exercised in patients with adrenal masses with imaging characteristics compatible with phaeochromocytoma. It may be prudent to defer glucocorticoid administration until functioning phaeochromocytoma has been excluded biochemically.

UI  - 19704370
TI  - Low-dose iodine-131 metaiodobenzylguanidine therapy for patients with malignant pheochromocytoma and paraganglioma: single center experience.
AB  - The following is a report on the clinical experience of an Israeli referral center for iodine-131 metaiodobenzylguanidine (131-MIBG) therapy for malignant pheochromocytoma (MPCC) and malignant paraganglioma (MPGG). The charts of 10 patients with MPCC (n = 7) and MPGG (n = 3) treated between 2000 and 2008 were reviewed. Response to 131-MIBG therapy was evaluated by tumor, hormone, and symptomatic relief criteria. The median follow-up was 18 months (2-48 months). The number of 131-MIBG treatments ranged from 1 to 4 (mean: 2.1). The average single dose of 131-MIBG was 5.4 +/- 0.2 GBq (145 +/- 5.0 mCi). The average cumulative dose was 11.6 +/- 1.6 GBq (310 +/- 44.0 mCi). There were no complete responses. Three patients (30%) had partial tumor response, 5 (50%) had stable disease, and 2 (20%) progressed after therapy. Five patients (50%) experienced symptomatic response. Hormone response was noted in 5 patients (50%). Progression-free survival was 17.5 months (2-47 months). One patient (10%) had thrombocytopenia and 2 patients (20%) developed subclinical hypothyroidism. Hormonal and symptomatic relief can be achieved with 131-MIBG therapy in patients with MPCC and MPGG with minor side effects.

UI  - 18780317
TI  - Treatment of malignant pheochromocytoma/paraganglioma with cyclophosphamide, vincristine, and dacarbazine: recommendation from a 22-year follow-up of 18 patients.
AB  - Combination chemotherapy with CVD produced objective tumor responses in patients with advanced malignant pheochromocytoma/paraganglioma. In this 22-year follow-up there was no difference in overall survival between patients whose tumors objectively shrank and those with stable or progressive disease. However, patients reported improvement in symptoms, had objective improvements in blood pressure, and had tumor shrinkage that made surgical resection possible. The authors conclude that CVD therapy is not indicated in every patient with metastatic pheochromocytoma/paraganglioma, but should be considered in the management of patients with symptoms and where tumor shrinkage might be beneficial.

UI  - 17594783
TI  - Parkinson's disease: the effect of L-dopa therapy on urinary free catecholamines and metabolites.
AB  - L-dopa therapy can result in production of false positives for urinary excretion of dopamine, homovanillic acid, free normetadrenaline or free metadrenaline and thereby decrease the diagnostic value of these measurements in identifying phaeochromocytoma and related tumours.

UI  - 16421420
TI  - Phase II study of temozolomide and thalidomide in patients with metastatic neuroendocrine tumors.
AB  - Orally administered temozolomide and thalidomide seems to be an active regimen for the treatment of neuroendocrine tumors. In this 29-patient study, this regimen appeared more active in pancreatic endocrine tumors than in carcinoid tumors.

UI  - 12438175
TI  - Malignant and benign pheochromocytoma: chromaffin granule transmitters and the response to medical and surgical treatment.
AB  - 

UI  - 12192533
TI  - Efficacy and safety of doxazosin for perioperative management of patients with pheochromocytoma.
AB  - Despite adverse side effects, phenoxybenzamine has been widely used for the preoperative management of patients with pheochromocytoma. Doxazosin, a specific a 1-adrenoceptor antagonist, has a pharmacologic profile more suited to controlling blood pressure in such patients. A sequential study of 35 patients with pheochromocytoma encompassed a definite and prescribed change in preoperative drug management from phenoxybenzamine to doxazosin. Hemodynamic, pharmacologic, and biochemical indicators of a- and b-adrenoceptor blockade were measured before, during, and after anesthesia and surgery in 8 patients pretreated with phenoxybenzamine and 27 patients pretreated with doxazosin. Doxazosin (2-16 mg/day) was as effective as phenoxybenzamine in controlling arterial pressure and heart rate before and during surgery, but doxazosin caused fewer undesirable side effects both before and after surgery. Following phenoxybenzamine therapy substantial a 1-adrenoceptor blockade, detected as a right shift of phenylephrine dose-response curves, persisted for more than 2 days postoperatively, whereas after doxazosin it was undetectable on the first postoperative day. Doxazosin provided safe, efficacious pre- and perioperative control of arterial pressure. In patients with predominantly norepinephrine-secreting tumors, pretreatment 24-hour urinary norepinephrine excretion gave an indication of the daily doxazosin requirement.

UI  - 10440191
TI  - Treatment of malignant pheochromocytomas with 131-I metaiodobenzylguanidine and chemotherapy.
AB  - Malignant pheochromocytomas have exhibited partial responses to treatments with 131-I metaiodobenzylguanidine (MIBG) and with chemotherapy. The authors combined these two therapeutic methods to determine if beneficial effects from each would be additive. Patients with documented malignant pheochromocytomas were recruited with the intent of administering 131-I MIBG in three substantial amounts of radioactivity at 3-month intervals followed by a year of chemotherapy in which cyclophosphamide, dacarbazine, and vincristine were to be given in 21-day cycles. Six patients entered the protocol. After the 131-I MIBG treatments, three patients manifested declines in the presence of tumor (smaller tumor volume or abnormalities on bone and 131-I MIBG scans) and the function of tumor (decreased rate of normetanephrine excretion as the major index). Two patients completed at least 9 months of chemotherapy and showed further reductions in the presence and function of tumors and were classified as having partial responses. Progressive disease afflicted three of the other four subjects. Even though toxicity was minimal from 131-I MIBG, it was sufficient to force reduction in the dosages or duration of chemotherapy. A combination of 131-I MIBG treatments and chemotherapy produced additive effects in reducing malignant pheochromocytomas. Toxicity moderately curtailed the proposed chemotherapy protocol.

UI  - 9465855
TI  - [Therapy of malignant pheochromocytoma. Invitation to participate in a randomized multicenter study].
AB  - 

UI  - 9059556
TI  - Octreotide scintigraphy and catecholamine response to an octreotide challenge in malignant phaeochromocytoma.
AB  - Octreotide scintigraphy behaves in part complementary to MIBG, thus, increasing diagnostic sensitivity. Presence of somatostatin receptors, as demonstrated by octreotide scintigraphy, does not necessarily predict functional activity or therapeutic response.

UI  - 7758234
TI  - Short-term effects of octreotide on blood pressure and plasma catecholamines and neuropeptide Y levels in patients with phaeochromocytoma: a placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - In the present controlled conditions, short-term administration of octreotide had no antisecretory effect in patients with phaeochromocytoma.

UI  - 1978640
TI  - Surgical management of pheochromocytoma with the use of metyrosine.
AB  - Despite recommended preoperative preparation with alpha-adrenergic blockers, severe hemodynamic instability may occur during operations to resect pheochromocytoma. We combined the alpha-blocker phenoxybenzamine with the tyrosine hydroxylase inhibitor metyrosine in an attempt to better manage the hypertension of patients with pheochromocytoma undergoing surgical resection. This report reviews the cases of 25 consecutive patients undergoing surgery for known intra-abdominal pheochromocytoma. Each patient had elevated serum or urine levels of catecholamines or their metabolites. Nineteen patients were prepared before operation with phenoxybenzamine and metyrosine and six patients were given phenoxybenzamine alone. There were no significant differences in maximum, minimum, or mean blood pressure before or after tumor resection between patients who received metyrosine and those who did not. However careful review suggested that those who received metyrosine had more severe disease as judged by biochemical criteria. Study of selected patients matched for age and severity of disease suggested that the intraoperative blood pressure management of patients prepared with phenoxybenzamine and metyrosine was facilitated. In addition metyrosine-prepared patients lost less blood and required less volume replacement during surgery than did non-metyrosine-prepared patients. There were no apparent differences in postoperative fluid requirements. Although the study is not a prospective randomized trial, a retrospective review of patients managed with the combination of phenoxybenzamine and metyrosine suggests that surgery to resect pheochromocytoma can be better performed with both drugs than with phenoxybenzamine alone. The combination regimen appears to result in better blood pressure control, less blood loss, and the need for less intraoperative fluid replacement than does the traditional method of single-agent alpha-adrenergic blockade.

UI  - 6237229
TI  - Chemotherapy trials in malignant pheochromocytoma: report of two patients and review of the literature.
AB  - Two patients with metastatic pheochromocytoma received chemotherapy with 5-fluorouracil, cyclophosphamide, and streptozotocin. A biochemical response occurred in one instance. A review of the literature and the results in the reported patients indicate cyclophosphamide and/or streptozotocin may have activity in this neoplasm.

UI  - 6136843
TI  - Phaeochromocytoma and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy: apparent suppression of symptoms and noradrenaline secretion by calcium-channel blockade.
AB  - A 44-year-old woman with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and a noradrenaline-secreting phaeochromocytoma is described. She experienced as great improvement in cardiovascular symptoms during double-blind treatment with the calcium-channel blocker nifedipine compared with the placebo period. Symptom relief on nifedipine therapy was associated with a pronounced decline in elevated urinary noradrenaline levels. This observation suggests that calcium-channel blockers interfere with the release of noradrenaline from phaeochromocytoma tissue and thus may be beneficial in patients with phaeochromocytoma.

UI  - 6340865
TI  - [Clinical effects of labetalol on pheochromocytoma].
AB  - 

UI  - 4395478
TI  - Catecholamines in hypertension.
AB  - 

UI  - 4391518
TI  - The therapeutic role of propranolol.
AB  - 
