
UI  - 24856745
TI  - Computed tomography is not justified in every pediatric blunt trauma patient with a suspicious mechanism of injury.
AB  - The routine use of CT in asymptomatic pediatric patients with a suspicious mechanism of blunt trauma injury is not justified.

UI  - 24641639
TI  - Incidence of clinically symptomatic pneumothorax in ultrasound-guided infraclavicular and supraclavicular brachial plexus block.
AB  - The use of periclavicular brachial plexus block as regional anaesthesia for surgical procedures on the upper extremity is common. However, the proximity of the pleura results in a risk of pneumothorax. Without ultrasound monitoring, the pneumothorax risk has been reported to be as high as 6.1%. We conducted a prospective, observational study to examine the risk of pneumothorax in 6366 ultrasound-guided periclavicular plexus blocks. All patients with a clinically manifest and radiologically confirmed pneumothorax were analysed. Clinically symptomatic pneumothorax occurred in four patients (0.06%; 95% CI 0.001-0.124), in three of them after a two-day latency period. Ultrasound guidance does therefore appear to reduce the risk of pneumothorax. Although all of the anaesthesiologists involved in the complications had previously performed fewer than 20 blocks, we are not able to confirm that a block experience  20 is a significant risk factor. Faulty image-setting, inability to obtain a view of the needle tip and inadequate supervision are likely to be important risk factors.

UI  - 24375295
TI  - Randomized clinical trial of pigtail catheter versus chest tube in injured patients with uncomplicated traumatic pneumothorax.
AB  - NCT01537289 (http://clinicaltrials.gov).

UI  - 24074658
TI  - Autologous blood patch for persistent air leak in children.
AB  - ABP appears to be a safe and effective treatment option for PAL in children. ABP offers an inexpensive, easy to perform technique and avoids use of toxic chemicals for pleurodesis in pediatric patients.

UI  - 24005547
TI  - Using augmented reality as a clinical support tool to assist combat medics in the treatment of tension pneumothoraces.
AB  - This study was to extrapolate potential roles of augmented reality goggles as a clinical support tool assisting in the reduction of preventable causes of death on the battlefield. Our pilot study was designed to improve medic performance in accurately placing a large bore catheter to release tension pneumothorax (prehospital setting) while using augmented reality goggles. Thirty-four preclinical medical students recruited from Morehouse School of Medicine performed needle decompressions on human cadaver models after hearing a brief training lecture on tension pneumothorax management. Clinical vignettes identifying cadavers as having life-threatening tension pneumothoraces as a consequence of improvised explosive device attacks were used. Study group (n = 13) performed needle decompression using augmented reality goggles whereas the control group (n = 21) relied solely on memory from the lecture. The two groups were compared according to their ability to accurately complete the steps required to decompress a tension pneumothorax. The medical students using augmented reality goggle support were able to treat the tension pneumothorax on the human cadaver models more accurately than the students relying on their memory (p < 0.008). Although the augmented reality group required more time to complete the needle decompression intervention (p = 0.0684), this did not reach statistical significance.

UI  - 23866345
TI  - Pazopanib and soft-tissue sarcomas. Too toxic.
AB  - Soft-tissue sarcomas are rare tumours of mesenchymal origin. Patients with metastatic disease have a median survival of about 10 months. Doxorubicin, an anthracycline, is often used to reduce tumour volume, but it does not prolong overall survival. Pazopanib, a multiple tyrosine kinase inhibitor already marketed for kidney cancer, is now licensed for the treatment of certain metastatic soft-tissue sarcomas when chemotherapy fails or when the disease progresses despite adjuvant or neoadjuvant therapy. Clinical evaluation of pazopanib in this setting is based on a double-blind, randomised, placebo-controlled trial in 369 patients whose tumours had progressed despite at least one line of chemotherapy, based on an anthracycline. In this trial, pazopanib did not provide a statistically significant increase in overall survival. The median survival time was about 12 months. A statistically significant increase in median progression-free survival was observed (4.6 versus 1.6 months, an increase of 3 months), based mainly on radiological criteria. Pazopanib did not improve quality of life. The adverse effect profile includes cardiovascular, gastrointestinal and hepatic disorders, and palmoplantar erythrodysaesthesia. Serious adverse effects are frequent. Other life-threatening adverse effects observed in patients with soft-tissue sarcoma include pneumothorax (especially in case of pulmonary metastasis), heart failure, venous thrombosis, pulmonary embolism and hypothyroidism. In practice, given its lack of any proven impact on overall survival and its excessive toxicity, the use of pazopanib is not justified. It is better to focus on appropriate symptomatic care in order to preserve these patients' quality of life.

UI  - 23863225
TI  - Safety of intrahospital transport in ventilated critically ill patients: a multicenter cohort study*.
AB  - Intrahospital transport increases the risk of complications in ventilated critically ill patients. Continuous quality improvement programs should include specific procedures to minimize intrahospital transport-related risks.

UI  - 23780423
TI  - An evaluation of an expert system for detecting critical events during anesthesia in a human patient simulator: a prospective randomized controlled study.
AB  - When using the expert system, clinically important and statistically significant decreases in time to detection and time to treatment were observed for the endotracheal tube cuff Leak scenario. The observed differences in the other 3 scenarios were much smaller and not statistically significant. Further evaluation is required to confirm the clinical utility of real-time expert systems for anesthesia.

UI  - 23778154
TI  - Multi-institutional retrospective cohort study of spontaneous pneumothorax.
AB  - Spontaneous pneumothorax (SP) affects only a subset of patients in a variety of disorders. This multi-institutional study attempted to identify unique clinicopathologic features of spontaneous pneumothorax (SP) in a large cohort. A total of 111 cases from 109 patients were retrieved from 3 institutions over an 11-year period: 27 women, 82 men. 66 were smokers, 16 were non-smokers, 27 unknown. Sixty-six cases (61%) had identifiable disorders (secondary SP). Seven patients had a family history of lung disease: 2 of pneumothorax, 2 of lung cancer, and 1 each of emphysema, COPD, and not further classified. Forty-three cases (32 men, 11 women) were primary. The average age was 28 (men) and 37 (women). 17 smoked, 14 were non-smokers, and 12 unknown. In 26%, a unique recently described entity, pneumothorax-associated fibroblastic lesion (PAFL), was noted. 16% of this subset also had cellular alveolar septae. Abundant intraalveolar macrophages were noted in 12 cases. Five cases of unknown etiology had extensive bullous lung disease not otherwise classified. One patient had unusual cellular areas suggestive of LAM but negative for HMB-45. In conclusion, several distinct morphologic lesions were identified: PAFL, a subset with cellular septae, and a third with numerous intraalveolar macrophages.

UI  - 23765425
TI  - Tunneling endoscopic muscularis dissection for subepithelial tumors originating from the muscularis propria of the esophagus and gastric cardia.
AB  - tEMD appears to be a feasible minimally invasive and effective treatment for patients with SETs originating from the MP layer of the esophagus and cardia.

UI  - 23701059
TI  - Effect of intraparenchymal blood patch on rates of pneumothorax and pneumothorax requiring chest tube placement after percutaneous lung biopsy.
AB  - The use of an autologous intraparenchymal blood patch significantly reduces the rate of pneumothorax requiring chest tube placement. It seems to be more beneficial when a 19-gauge guiding needle is used.

UI  - 23663438
TI  - Complications associated with endobronchial ultrasound-guided transbronchial needle aspiration: a nationwide survey by the Japan Society for Respiratory Endoscopy.
AB  - Although the complication rate associated with EBUS-TBNA was found to be low, severe complications, including infectious complications, were observed, and the incidence of device breakage was high. Since the use of EBUS-TBNA is rapidly expanding in Japan, an educational program for its safe performance should be immediately established.

UI  - 23658044
TI  - Traumatic vertebral fractures with concomitant fractures of the first rib.
AB  - Traumatic vertebral fractures with concomitant fractures of the first rib are associated with multisystem injuries, but not always with morbidity and mortality. A multidisciplinary approach, early diagnosis, appropriate treatment and observation in the intensive care unit may prevent morbidity and/or mortality.

UI  - 23632224
TI  - Feasibility of bedside thoracic ultrasound in the helicopter emergency medical services setting.
AB  - The results of this study suggest that, with limited training, bedside thoracic ultrasound image acquisition and interpretation for the sliding lung sign in the HEMS setting is feasible.

UI  - 23507121
TI  - Optimal technique for the removal of chest tubes after pulmonary resection.
AB  - Removal of chest tubes at the end of expiration leads to a lower incidence of non-clinically significant pneumothorax than at the end of inspiration. Because of these findings, this study was closed early and was thus underpowered for finding a statistically significant difference in the rare (1%-3%) clinically significant pneumothoraces.

UI  - 23489754
TI  - Simple aspiration and drainage and intrapleural minocycline pleurodesis versus simple aspiration and drainage for the initial treatment of primary spontaneous pneumothorax: an open-label, parallel-group, prospective, randomised, controlled trial.
AB  - Department of Health and National Science Council, Taiwan.

UI  - 23479675
TI  - Comparison of the neutral and retracted shoulder positions for infraclavicular subclavian venous catheterization: a randomized, non-inferiority trial.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT01368692.

UI  - 23444073
TI  - Transitioning from stiff chest tubes to soft pleural catheters: prospective assessment of a practice change.
AB  - Soft pleural catheters are an acceptable alternative to traditional stiff chest tubes in the pediatric population. Premature dislodgment was the most common problem. Prospective audits are extremely valuable in assessing new procedural protocols and practice changes.

UI  - 23425731
TI  - Occult pneumothoraces in critical care: a prospective multicenter randomized controlled trial of pleural drainage for mechanically ventilated trauma patients with occult pneumothoraces.
AB  - Therapeutic study, level III.

UI  - 23420053
TI  - Efficacy and safety of human fibrinogen-thrombin patch (TachoSil) in the treatment of postoperative air leakage in patients submitted to redo surgery for lung malignancies: a randomized trial.
AB  - TachoSil was superior to standard stapling and suturing aerostatic techniques in reducing postoperative air leaks in patients undergoing redo thoracic surgery.

UI  - 23262790
TI  - Magnetic resonance imaging-guided percutaneous biopsy of mediastinal masses: diagnostic performance and safety.
AB  - Magnetic resonance imaging-guided biopsy of mediastinal masses has a high diagnostic performance and is safe for use in clinical practice.

UI  - 23225814
TI  - The frequency of reexpansion pulmonary edema after trocar and hemostat assisted thoracostomy in patients with spontaneous pneumothorax.
AB  - Closed thoracostomy using a trocar is associated with an increased risk of REPE compared with hemostat- assisted drainage in patients with spontaneous pneumothorax.

UI  - 23200592
TI  - [Cost-effectiveness of lung volume reduction coil treatment in emphysema. STIC REVOLENS].
AB  - This study should allow validating the clinical efficacy of LVRC in severe emphysema. The cost-effectiveness study will assess the medical-economic impact of the LVRC therapeutic option.

UI  - 23194045
TI  - A unique, histopathologic lesion in a subset of patients with spontaneous pneumothorax.
AB  - Our review identified a distinct pattern of pneumothorax-associated fibroblastic lesions in a subset of cases of spontaneous pneumothorax. Whether this is related to the pathogenesis of the pneumothorax remains to be elucidated.

UI  - 23188233
TI  - Using micropower impulse radar technology to screen for pneumothorax: an international bi-institutional study.
AB  - Diagnostic study, level III.

UI  - 23068560
TI  - Breath-hold after forced expiration before removal of the biopsy needle decreased the rate of pneumothorax in CT-guided transthoracic lung biopsy.
AB  - Breath-holding after forced expiration before removal of the biopsy needle during the percutaneous CT-guided transthoracic lung biopsy almost halved the rate of overall pneumothorax. Small lesion size (longitudinal diameter) and the distance from pleura were also predictors of pneumothorax in our study.

UI  - 23043755
TI  - Use of a sealant to prevent prolonged air leaks after lung resection: a prospective randomized study.
AB  - Not registered. The trial was approved by the Institutional Review Board of the IRCCS-CROB Basilicata Regional Cancer Institute, Rionero in Vulture, Italy.

UI  - 23032808
TI  - Bedside thoracic ultrasonography of the fourth intercostal space reliably determines safe removal of tube thoracostomy after traumatic injury.
AB  - Diagnostic study, level II.

UI  - 23024236
TI  - Regulated tailored suction vs regulated seal: a prospective randomized trial on air leak duration.
AB  - Regulated seal is as effective and safe as regulated suction in managing chest tubes following lobectomy. This information demonstrates with objective data the non-superiority of regulated suction vs regulated seal and may assist in future investigations on regulated pleural pressure.

UI  - 22934858
TI  - Long thoracic nerve block in video-assisted thoracoscopic wedge resection for pneumothorax.
AB  - We hypothesised that relaxation of the serratus anterior muscle by long thoracic nerve (LTN) block could help pain relief after video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery. Patients undergoing thoracoscopic wedge resection for pneumothorax were randomly assigned to control or LTN block. LTN block was performed before induction of general anaesthesia. Pain was evaluated using a visual analogue scale before anaesthesia induction (T0), on arrival to the post-anaesthetic care unit (PACU) (T1), every ten minutes after arrival in the PACU for 30 minutes (T2, T3 and T4) and one hour and 24 hours after discharge from the PACU (T5 and T6). Visual analogue scale scores from T1 to T5 in the block group were lower than the control group (T1: 3611 vs 4814 [P=0001], T2: 3611 vs 5115 [P<0.001], T3: 35vs 5215 [P<0.001], T4: 307 vs 4517 [P<0.001] and T5: 265 vs 325 [P<0.001]). Total intravenous patient-controlled analgesia bolus dose (alfentanil 75 g/ml) during PACU stay (1.61.2 vs 3.92.0 ml, P<0.001) and one hour after discharge from the PACU (0.50.8 vs 1.71.2 ml, P<0.001) in the LTN group was significantly lower than the control group. Total intravenous patient-controlled analgesia bolus dose from 1-24 hours after discharge from the PACU was similar between groups (P=0197). These findings indicate that LTN block reduced pain after video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery from end-of-surgery to one hour after discharge from the PACU.

UI  - 22925840
TI  - A prospective, randomised trial of pneumothorax therapy: manual aspiration versus conventional chest tube drainage.
AB  - MA is simple, safe, cheap, minimal invasive in uncomplicated PSP/traumatic PTX with similar success and recurrence rates and a shorter hospital stay in comparison to TT and therefore the treatment of choice.

UI  - 22828649
TI  - Accuracy of emergency physician-performed ultrasound in detecting traumatic pneumothorax after a 2-h training course.
AB  - After just a 2-h training course, emergency physicians showed a good success rate in finding pneumothoraces. Thoracic US can be an easy to learn and an accurate diagnostic modality for the detection of traumatic pneumothorax in emergency departments.

UI  - 22719075
TI  - Surgical and hybrid atrial fibrillation ablation procedures.
AB  - This EP Wire survey shows a wide variation not only in indications for stand-alone, surgical AF ablation, but also in surgical techniques, lesion sets, follow-up, and outcome.

UI  - 22687357
TI  - Staple line coverage with a polyglycolic acid sheet plus pleural abrasion by thoracoscopic surgery for primary spontaneous pneumothorax in young patients.
AB  - Staple line coverage with a polyglycolic acid sheet plus pleural abrasion by thoracoscopic surgery is a useful method for preventing morbidity and the postoperative recurrence of pneumothorax.

UI  - 22465648
TI  - [Internal jugular venous cannulation: what is the best approach?].
AB  - This study shows that the posterior approach in internal jugular venous cannulation is more efficient than and as safe as the anterior approach.

UI  - 22459663
TI  - Submucosal tumors of the esophagogastric junction originating from the muscularis propria layer: a large study of endoscopic submucosal dissection (with video).
AB  - ESD appears to be a safe, feasible, and effective procedure for providing accurate histopathologic evaluations, as well as curative treatments for SMTs of the EGJ originating from the muscularis propria layer.

UI  - 22459543
TI  - Intrapleural instillation of autologous blood for persistent air leak in spontaneous pneumothorax in patients with advanced chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
AB  - Using autologous blood to treat secondary spontaneous pneumothorax (SSP) in patients with advanced COPD is easy, safe, and effective. The dose of blood required for autologous blood patch pleurodesis should be dependent on the body weight, and 1 mL/kg blood may be efficient.

UI  - 22453728
TI  - Is spontaneous pneumothorax really a pediatric problem? A national perspective.
AB  - Although uncommon in children, SP appears to be primarily a condition of males and adolescents and appears to be increasing in incidence in this population. According to these data, a large portion of children are being managed without procedural intervention.

UI  - 22424339
TI  - Management of pediatric occult pneumothorax in blunt trauma: a subgroup analysis of the American Association for the Surgery of Trauma multicenter prospective observational study.
AB  - No pediatric OPTX initially observed developed a tension pneumothorax or adverse event related to observation. Pediatric patients with OPTX less than 16 mm may be safely observed. Neither the presence of rib fractures nor need for PPV alone necessitates intervention.

UI  - 22323011
TI  - Thoracoscopic pleurodesis for primary spontaneous pneumothorax with high recurrence risk: a prospective randomized trial.
AB  - : Pleural abrasion with minocycline pleurodesis is as effective as apical pleurectomy and either technique is appropriate for treating PSP patients with high recurrence risk. This trial was registered at http://www.clinicaltrials.gov (ID: NCT00270751).

UI  - 22228239
TI  - Effects of four different positive airway pressures on right internal jugular vein catheterisation.
AB  - A PAP of 20 cmH2O seems most suitable for successful RIJV catheterisation in mechanically ventilated patients. It is associated with an increase in cross-sectional RIJV area and CVP, which facilitate cannulation, and results in fewer puncture-related complications. However, meticulous haemodynamic monitoring is needed to avoid hypotension and bradycardia.

UI  - 22219462
TI  - Prospective trial evaluating sonography after thoracic surgery in postoperative care and decision making.
AB  - Post-operative ultrasound may alleviate the need to perform routine CXR in patients with a previously ruled out pneumothorax. SATS used selectively may be able to reduce the number of routine CXRs performed; however, it does not have high enough accuracy to replace CXRs.

UI  - 22071996
TI  - Needle decompression for tension pneumothorax in Tactical Combat Casualty Care: do catheters placed in the midaxillary line kink more often than those in the midclavicular line?
AB  - This study suggests that the 14-gauge, 1.5-inch angiocatheter used for ND in the midaxillary line may partially and temporarily occlude in patients who will be transported on military stretchers. The pressure of 12.8 mm Hg has been documented in animal models as the pressure at which hemodynamic instability develops. This may contribute to the reaccumulation of tension pneumothoraces and ultimate patient deterioration in military transport.

UI  - 22052222
TI  - Long-term results of radiofrequency ablation treatment of stage I non-small cell lung cancer: a prospective intention-to-treat study.
AB  - Radiofrequency ablation treatment of early-stage NSCLC seems to be a effective minimally invasive therapy even in the long-term period, particularly for stage Ia tumors.

UI  - 21999936
TI  - Can cervical spine computed tomography assist in detecting occult pneumothoraces?
AB  - OPTXs were evident on thoracic (and not abdominal) CT in 17% of severely injured patients. For patients who also underwent C-spine imaging, all OPTXs isolated to thoracic CT could be diagnosed by using the pulmonary windows setting of their C-spine CT imaging protocol. All OPTXs, regardless of intra-thoracic location, could also be detected by combining C-spine and abdominal CT screening.

UI  - 21958767
TI  - Safety and effectiveness of a new fibrin pleural air leak sealant: a multicenter, controlled, prospective, parallel-group, randomized clinical trial.
AB  - The present study showed that the new FS is safe and effective in preventing AALs after lung resections and in shortening the duration of postoperative AALs.

UI  - 21943533
TI  - [Pleural puncture biopsy in the aetiological diagnosis of pleurisy].
AB  - The PPB is easy to perform at a low cost. It permits the diagnosis of tuberculous and neoplastic pleurisy, particularly in low income countries with a high prevalence of TB/HIV.

UI  - 21941792
TI  - [Application of cystostomy drainage make thoracic cavity close drainage on pneumoconiosis].
AB  - 

UI  - 21828109
TI  - Mechanical versus chemical pleurodesis for management of primary spontaneous pneumothorax evaluated with thoracic echography.
AB  - The current study is designed to compare the effectiveness of brushing the pleura vs. instillation of minocycline for the management of primary spontaneous pneumothorax, and to assess the sensitivity of echography in defining areas of defects. Blebectomy and pleurodesis were carried out thoracoscopically on 84 patients. In group A (42 patients), abrasions were induced using a sponge on a long ring forceps. Group B (42 patients) received intrapleural instillation of minocycline. Echography was carried out two weeks after discharge and then repeated two weeks later. Follow-up ranged between 28 and 39 months. Two patients were excluded from group A for incomplete follow-up. In group A, five patients (12%) showed areas of free mobility of the lung on first echography. At the second examination, three (7% of the total) showed the same areas of mobility; one patient developed an attack of localized pneumothorax after 32 and another after 45 weeks. Each had three adjacent areas of free mobility. In group B, two patients each showed one area of free mobility on the first and second examinations but no recurrence during follow-up. The two groups had comparable chest drainage, postoperative hospital stay and complication rates. The patients in group B demonstrated a trend towards a decreased rate of prolonged air leaks (2% vs. 5%; P=0.100). Thus, pleurodesis by instillation of minocycline as a part of thoracoscopy is more effective than brushing the pleura. Thoracic echography is a highly sensitive method for assessing the effectiveness of pleurodesis.

UI  - 21712283
TI  - Pacemaker implantation in small hospitals: complication rates comparable to larger centres.
AB  - There are no generally accepted norms of complication rates in pacemaker surgery. However, we found no indications that our centres have a rate of complications that is unacceptably high.

UI  - 21610419
TI  - Blunt traumatic occult pneumothorax: is observation safe?--results of a prospective, AAST multicenter study.
AB  - Most blunt trauma patients with OPTX can be carefully monitored without tube thoracostomy; however, OPTX progression and respiratory distress are independently associated with observation failure.

UI  - 21605278
TI  - A randomized controlled trial of the efficacy of cosmetic talc compared with iodopovidone for chemical pleurodesis.
AB  - Iodopovidone and cosmetic talc are equally efficacious and safe agents for chemical pleurodesis.

UI  - 21562918
TI  - A modified two-port thoracoscopic technique versus axillary minithoracotomy for the treatment of recurrent spontaneous pneumothorax: a prospective randomized study.
AB  - Axillary minithoracotomy and VATS are equally effective for the treatment of RSP, although the rate for resection of blebs, bulla, or both is higher with the axillary minithoracotomy procedure. Although VATS is more time consuming, it offers to the patient more satisfaction with treatment.

UI  - 21507268
TI  - Single-incision thoracoscopic surgery for primary spontaneous pneumothorax.
AB  - Although three-port thoracoscopic surgery for PSP is well established, SITS results in better patient satisfaction and decreased postoperative pain in the treatment of PSP.

UI  - 21494105
TI  - Real-time ultrasound-guided subclavian vein cannulation versus the landmark method in critical care patients: a prospective randomized study.
AB  - The present data suggested that ultrasound-guided cannulation of the subclavian vein in critical care patients is superior to the landmark method and should be the method of choice in these patients.

UI  - 21482337
TI  - [Comparison of simple aspiration versus standard drainage in the treatment of large primary spontaneous pneumothorax].
AB  - In the case of equivalence, this study should help to better define the place of aspiration compared to chest tube drainage in the management of spontaneous pneumothorax.

UI  - 21436351
TI  - Short-term safety of thoracoscopic talc pleurodesis for recurrent primary spontaneous pneumothorax: a prospective European multicentre study.
AB  - The safety of talc pleurodesis is under dispute following reports of talc-induced acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) and death. We investigated the safety of large-particle talc for thoracoscopic pleurodesis to prevent recurrence of primary spontaneous pneumothorax (PSP). 418 patients with recurrent PSP were enrolled between 2002 and 2008 in nine centres in Europe and South Africa. The main exclusion criteria were infection, heart disease and coagulation disorders. Serious adverse events (ARDS, death or other) were recorded up to 30 days after the procedure. Oxygen saturation, supplemental oxygen use and temperature were recorded daily at baseline and after thoracoscopic pleurodesis (2 g graded talc). During the 30-day observation period following talc poudrage, no ARDS (95% CI 0.0-0.9%), intensive care unit admission or death were recorded. Seven patients presented with minor complications (1.7%, 95% CI 0.7-3.4%). After pleurodesis, mean body temperature increased by 0.41C (95% CI 0.33-0.48C; p<0.001) at day 1 and returned to baseline value at day 5. Pleural drains were removed after day 4 in 80% of patients. Serious adverse events, including ARDS or death, did not occur in this large, multicentre cohort. Thoracoscopic talc poudrage using larger particle talc to prevent recurrence of PSPS can be considered safe.

UI  - 21316980
TI  - 'Six sigma approach' - an objective strategy in digital assessment of postoperative air leaks: a prospective randomised study.
AB  - Continuous digital measurement of AL reduces degree of variability of AL score, gives more assurance for tube removal, and reports AL without the apprehension of observer error. Efficiency and effectiveness improved with the use of a digital device. We have noted that the AL curves depict actually sealing of AL. The clinical importance of AL curves requires further study.

UI  - 21288733
TI  - A prospective randomized controlled study to assess the effectiveness of CoSeal to seal air leaks in lung surgery.
AB  - Patients treated with CoSeal in this study had, as a group, a longer duration of air leak and hence we cannot recommend its routine use.

UI  - 21120475
TI  - Surgical correction of the funnel chest deformity in children.
AB  - The aim of this study was to evaluate our results during and after the Nuss operation in children with pectus excavatum. We have performed the Nuss procedure in 128 patients with pectus excavatum since 2001, and 74 patients underwent bar removal. Of the 128 patients 96 were male and 32 were female; age ranged from eight to 21 years with an average of 13.8 years. In 46% of patients psychological reasons for operative treatment were dominant while in the other 54% of patients clinical signs were the indications. Complications in 128 patients included 36 pneumothorax, 28 of which resolved spontaneously. Postoperative pneumonia developed in six patients. In two patients we had infection of the implanted bar, and there were two patients with cellulitis. We had six patients with bar displacement and reoperation was needed. During the Nuss procedure we had one injury of the intercostal artery. We had pericardial tears in two patients without clinical significance. In two patients we had pericardial effusion six months after the Nuss procedure, requiring pericardiocentesis. In one patient we had fracture of the sternum. There were no complications following bar removal. After bar removal in 74 patients, 54 patients (72.9%) maintained excellent results with normal chest anatomy, good results were found in 16 patients (21.6%) with mild residual pectus and poor results in four patients (5.5%) with severe recurrence. Our experience with the Nuss procedure demonstrated excellent results with few minor complications.

UI  - 21093877
TI  - Prospective European multicenter randomized trial of PleuraSeal for control of air leaks after elective pulmonary resection.
AB  - In this multicenter study the pleural sealant was safe and effective treatment for intraoperative air leaks after lung resection. Significantly fewer patients with surgically relevant intraoperative air leaks had postoperative air leaks when the pleural sealant was applied.

UI  - 20940567
TI  - Implementation of a clinical pathway in primary spontaneous pneumothorax patients treated by wedge resection surgery.
AB  - The present study offers a new comprehensive clinical pathway for PSP patients who have undergone wedge resection surgery. This study may be useful in the clinical nursing field by providing guiding standards for PSP-related education with respect to diet, exercise, self-supervision, complication, stress control, and recurrence prevention.

UI  - 20869268
TI  - Validity of selected Patient Safety Indicators: opportunities and concerns.
AB  - Until coding revisions are implemented, these PSIs, especially pPE/DVT, should be used primarily for screening and case-finding. Their utility for public reporting and pay-for-performance needs to be reassessed.

UI  - 20843428
TI  - Minocycline and talc slurry pleurodesis for patients with secondary spontaneous pneumothorax.
AB  - Minocycline and talc slurry had comparable sclerosing efficacy in SSP, with immediate success rates of >70%. Pain was the most common adverse effect and respiratory distress was uncommon. Both appeared to be effective and safe for chemical pleurodesis in SSP.

UI  - 20843245
TI  - Neuromuscular blockers in early acute respiratory distress syndrome.
AB  - In patients with severe ARDS, early administration of a neuromuscular blocking agent improved the adjusted 90-day survival and increased the time off the ventilator without increasing muscle weakness. (Funded by Assistance Publique-Hpitaux de Marseille and the Programme Hospitalier de Recherche Clinique Rgional 2004-26 of the French Ministry of Health; ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00299650.)

UI  - 20716475
TI  - A randomized controlled trial comparing minichest tube and needle aspiration in outpatient management of primary spontaneous pneumothorax.
AB  - Both MCT and NA allowed safe management of primary spontaneous pneumothorax in the outpatient setting.

UI  - 20716367
TI  - Intrapleural instillation of autologous blood for persistent air leak in spontaneous pneumothorax- is it as effective as it is safe?
AB  - Despite our disappointingly poor outcome, the authors believe that the procedure's safety, convenience and low cost establish it as a worth trying method of conservative treatment for patients with the aforementioned pathology for whom no other alternative than surgery would be a choice.

UI  - 20656223
TI  - A lung biopsy tract plug for reduction of postbiopsy pneumothorax and other complications: results of a prospective, multicenter, randomized, controlled clinical study.
AB  - The lung biopsy tract plug significantly reduced rates of pneumothorax in patients undergoing CT-guided lung biopsy. Rates of chest tube placement and postprocedure hospital admission were also reduced.

UI  - 20547114
TI  - Pneumothorax in cystic fibrosis: prevalence and outcomes in Scotland.
AB  - Pneumothorax can present a challenge to treat in adult CF. However successful outcomes can be achieved even in cases of prolonged air leaks. Current national guidelines help in selecting optimal pleural interventions.

UI  - 20541949
TI  - Efficacy and safety of TachoSil versus standard treatment of air leakage after pulmonary lobectomy.
AB  - TachoSil was superior to standard surgical treatment in reducing both postoperative air leakage duration and intra-operative air leakage intensity in patients undergoing elective pulmonary lobectomy.

UI  - 20523295
TI  - Digital air leak monitoring after lobectomy for primary lung cancer in patients with moderate COPD: can a fast-tracking algorithm reduce postoperative costs and complications?
AB  - The digital and continuous air leak measurement reduces the hospital length of stay by a more accurate and reproductive air leaks measurement. Further studies are mandatory to corroborate our preliminary results.

UI  - 20426989
TI  - [Application of absorbable Neoveil patch in operation on refractory pneumothorax in silicosis patients].
AB  - 

UI  - 20382717
TI  - Pleural ultrasound compared with chest radiographic detection of pneumothorax resolution after drainage.
AB  - The accuracy of PU is excellent for detecting residual pneumothorax during pneumothorax follow-up after drainage.

UI  - 20368021
TI  - [Comparison of the outcomes of spontaneous pneumothorax treated with early or delayed air drainage].
AB  - the time of air drainage was associated with outcomes of primary spontaneous pneumothorax. These data suggest that delayed intervention is an effective initial treatment strategy for patients with PSP, with a shorter time in hospital, fewer pleural adhesions and lower recurrence rates.

UI  - 19966346
TI  - Management of patients admitted with pneumothorax: a multi-centre study of the practice and outcomes in Hong Kong.
AB  - Notwithstanding recommendations from international guidelines, simple aspiration and intercostal tube drainage with small-bore catheters were not commonly employed in the management of hospitalised patients with the various types of pneumothoraces in Hong Kong.

UI  - 19923790
TI  - A multicenter pilot study of a bronchial valve for the treatment of severe emphysema.
AB  - Bronchial valve treatment of emphysema has multiple mechanisms of action and acceptable safety, and significantly improves quality of life for the majority of patients.

UI  - 19795328
TI  - The role of meteorological conditions on the development of spontaneous pneumothorax.
AB  - In our area, no relationship was observed between pneumothorax episodes and meteorological conditions in cases with SP, but attacks were found to occur more often in certain seasons and months. We believe that more significant results could be obtained if similar studies are conducted in other regions or maybe all over the country.

UI  - 19669004
TI  - Thoracoscopy in children with complicated parapneumonic pleural effusion at the fibrinopurulent stage: a multi-institutional study.
AB  - The effectiveness of thoracoscopy in children with parapneumonic pleural effusion at the fibrinopurulent stage was 88%. The procedure was safe, with a low rate of severe complications. Thoracoscopy should be the first-choice treatment for children with parapneumonic pleural effusion at the fibrinopurulent stage.

UI  - 19589691
TI  - Evaluation of a new chest tube removal protocol using digital air leak monitoring after lobectomy: a prospective randomised trial.
AB  - The application of a chest tube removal protocol using a digital drainage unit featuring a continuous recording of air leak was safe and cost effective. Although future studies are warranted to confirm these results in other settings, the use of this new protocol is now routinely applied in our practice.

UI  - 19539280
TI  - Occult pneumothorax in the blunt trauma patient: tube thoracostomy or observation?
AB  - The natural history of OP in blunt trauma patients at our institution appears to be one of uneventful resolution irrespective of ISS, need for PPV, or placement of tube thoracostomy. This study suggests an interesting hypothesis that observation of the blunt trauma patient with OP, without tube thoracostomy, may be safe and contribute to a shorter hospital stay. These are observations that would benefit from further study in a large, prospective randomised controlled trial.

UI  - 19531455
TI  - Tumour characteristics and therapeutic results after percutaneous radiofrequency ablation of secondary lung neoplasms.
AB  - RFA seems to be possible for "non-surgical" patients with various histologic types of secondary lung tumours. Good results in terms of local tumour control validated by contrast-enhanced CT scan were observed during short-term follow-up evaluation.

UI  - 19405926
TI  - Thoracoscopic surgery in children in the Kyushu area of Japan.
AB  - Thoracoscopy is a useful diagnostic and therapeutic tool for both infants and children. Various thoracoscopic complex procedures have been performed both safely and effectively.

UI  - 19349382
TI  - Treatment of persistent pulmonary air leaks using endobronchial valves.
AB  - Use of endobronchial valves is an effective, nonsurgical, minimally invasive intervention for patients with prolonged pulmonary air leaks.

UI  - 19306978
TI  - The OPTICC trial: a multi-institutional study of occult pneumothoraces in critical care.
AB  - With no important differences in morbidity, the OPTICC pilot lays the foundation for a future definitive trial comparing drainage or observation in posttraumatic OPTXs requiring PPV.

UI  - 19269837
TI  - A prospective randomized study to assess the efficacy of a surgical sealant to treat air leaks in lung surgery.
AB  - The application of Coseal sealant proved safe and effective in reducing air leaks occurring after lung resection and in shortening the duration of postoperative air leak with a trend towards a shorter postoperative hospital stay.

UI  - 19234005
TI  - Usefulness of a mobile phone with video telephony in identifying the correct landmark for performing needle thoracocentesis.
AB  - Identification of the correct anatomical landmark for needle thoracocentesis can be performed with instructions provided via VT because a dispatcher can monitor every step and provide correct instructions. This new technology will improve critical care medicine.

UI  - 19179550
TI  - Best choice of central venous insertion site for the prevention of catheter-related complications in adult patients who need cancer therapy: a randomized trial.
AB  - Central venous insertion modality and sites had no impact on either early or late complication rates, but US-guided subclavian insertion showed the lowest proportion of failures.

UI  - 19164630
TI  - Influence of air ambulance doctors on on-scene times, clinical interventions, decision-making and independent paramedic practice.
AB  - Appropriately trained HEMS doctors provide advanced management and decision-making. This is without a negative effect on on-scene time, even when performing complex procedures. They are more likely to declare death or discharge patients at the scene, increasing the availability of this limited resource.

UI  - 19117742
TI  - Pregnancy experiences among women with lymphangioleiomyomatosis.
AB  - Lymphangioleiomyomatosis (LAM) is a rare lung disease affecting women. Following case reports that pregnancy exacerbates LAM, patients are frequently advised to avoid pregnancy. Our objective was to determine pregnancy and health outcomes in LAM to provide better evidence with which to council patients contemplating pregnancy. We surveyed 328 women with LAM regarding pregnancy outcomes, pulmonary function, subjective and psychological functioning, quality of life, dyspnoea and fatigue. Amongst childless women the main reason not to attempt pregnancy was based on concerns about potential effects of pregnancy on LAM. Almost two thirds of patients had been pregnant, the majority before LAM was diagnosed, in whom pregnancy outcome was generally favourable. Women diagnosed with LAM (n=15) during pregnancy had high rates of pneumothorax (67%), miscarriage (7%) and premature birth (47%). The group diagnosed with LAM before or during pregnancy (n=12) had lower mean FEV(1), FVC and DLCO after pregnancy compared with those diagnosed following pregnancy or never pregnant. There were no differences in subjective or psychological functioning, quality of life, dyspnoea or fatigue scores between groups. In newly diagnosed LAM patients there was a high incidence of premature birth and pneumothorax. These adverse outcomes may be a marker of aggressive LAM.

UI  - 20509517
TI  - [Additional aerostasis with a 100% autologous fibrin glue in lung surgery--a prospective randomised trial].
AB  - Intraoperative additional aerostasis with 100%AFG is a highly effective (especially in cases with moderate and severe leakage), safe, simple and economical procedure.

UI  - 19052446
TI  - Distribution of breath sound images in patients with pneumothoraces compared to healthy subjects. Diagnostic yield of vibration response imaging technology.
AB  - This study demonstrates that VRI can be safely used to assess patients with pneumothoraces. Moreover, the analysis of breath sound distribution images obtained noninvasively can distinguish between patients with a normal chest examination from those with pneumothoraces.

UI  - 18954621
TI  - Autologous fibrin sealant reduces the incidence of prolonged air leak and duration of chest tube drainage after lung volume reduction surgery: a prospective randomized blinded study.
AB  - Autologous fibrin sealant for reinforcement of the staple lines after lung volume reduction surgery significantly reduces prolonged air leak and duration of chest tube drainage.

UI  - 18848460
TI  - Postoperative chest tube management: measuring air leak using an electronic device decreases variability in the clinical practice.
AB  - We have demonstrated a high rate of disagreement related to the indication to remove chest tubes after lung resection and the improvement of the agreement rate with the use of an electronic device to measure postoperative air leak and pleural pressures.

UI  - 19999219
TI  - Tube thorocostomy: management and outcome in patients with penetrating chest trauma.
AB  - Placing chest tubes on continuous low pressure suction after penetrating chest trauma helps evacuation of blood, expansion of lung and prevents the development of clotted Haemothorax. It also reduces the time to removal of chest drains, the hospital stay and the chances of surgery for clotted Haemothorax or Empyema.

UI  - 18787890
TI  - Routine suction of intercostal drains is not necessary after lobectomy: a prospective randomized trial.
AB  - Routine application of active drain suction to the underwater seal is not necessary after lobectomy. However, it could be useful in persistent pneumothorax with sufficient air entry in the lung and clear airways. It is of no help in persistent air leaks when the lung is expanded.

UI  - 18640304
TI  - The benefits of continuous and digital air leak assessment after elective pulmonary resection: a prospective study.
AB  - The digital and continuous measurement of air leaks instead of the currently used static analogue systems reduces hospital length of stay by more accurately and reproducibly measuring air leaks. This leads to quicker chest tube management decisions because the average size of an air leak during the last several hours can be determined. Intrapleural pressure curves may also help predict the optimal chest tube setting for each patient's air leak and eliminate the need for chest roentgenograms. Further studies on the pleural pressure curves and this device are needed.

UI  - 18583511
TI  - Outcomes of emergency department patients treated for primary spontaneous pneumothorax.
AB  - These data suggest that observation alone is an effective initial treatment strategy for selected patients with PSP. They support the inclusion of an observation arm in planned prospective studies comparing different management approaches.

UI  - 18565710
TI  - Etiology of spontaneous pneumothorax in 105 HIV-infected patients without highly active antiretroviral therapy.
AB  - The incidence of SP in non-treated HIV-infected patients was 1.06%. The aetiology was related to the patients risk practices and to their degree of immunosuppression. Bacterial pneumonia was the most common cause of SP.

UI  - 18535804
TI  - CT-guided interstitial brachytherapy of primary and secondary lung malignancies: results of a prospective phase II trial.
AB  - CT-guided interstitial brachytherapy proved to be safe and effective for the treatment of primary and secondary lung malignancies.

UI  - 18437013
TI  - Effects of additional pleurodesis with dextrose and talc-dextrose solution after video assisted thoracoscopic procedures for primary spontaneous pneumothorax.
AB  - Recurrence after thoracoscopic surgery for primary spontaneous pneumothorax is a lingering problem, and many intraoperative methods to induce pleural symphysis have been introduced. We analyzed the effects of chemical pleurodesis during thoracoscopic procedures. Between August 2003 and July 2005, 141 patients among indicated surgical treatment for primary spontaneous pneumothorax in two hospitals of our institution allowed this prospective study. The patients were randomly assigned to 3 groups: thoracoscopic procedure only (group A, n=50), thoracoscopic procedure and pleurodesis with dextrose solution (group B, n=49), and thoracoscopic procedure and pleurodesis with talc-dextrose mixed solution (group C, n=42). There was no significant difference in demographic data among the three groups. The two groups that underwent intraoperative pleurodesis had significantly longer postoperative hospital stays (A/B/C: 2.50+/-1.85/4.49+/-2.10/6.00+/-2.58 days; p=0.001) and a higher incidence of postoperative fever (A/B/C: 10.0/22.45/52.38%; chi(2)= 21.598, p=0.00). No significant differences were found for recurrence rates or the number of postoperative days until chest tube removal. Therefore, the results of our study indicate that intraoperative chemical pleurodesis gives no additional advantage to surgery alone in deterring recurrence for patients with primary spontaneous pneumothorax. Thus, the use of such scarifying agents in the operating room must be reconsidered.

UI  - 18403664
TI  - Relevance of lung ultrasound in the diagnosis of acute respiratory failure: the BLUE protocol.
AB  - Lung ultrasound can help the clinician make a rapid diagnosis in patients with acute respiratory failure, thus meeting the priority objective of saving time.

UI  - 18392461
TI  - The incidence of residual pneumothorax after video-assisted sympathectomy with and without pleural drainage and its effect on postoperative pain.
AB  - Performing closed pleural drainage for 3 h immediately after video-assisted thoracic sympathectomy did not affect lung re-expansion or the incidence of residual pneumothorax. When residual pneumothorax was present, it did not affect pain within the first 28 postoperative days.

UI  - 18294798
TI  - CT-guided cutting needle lung biopsy using modified coaxial technique: factors effecting risk of complications.
AB  - The most frequent and important complications of this procedure are pneumothorax and bleeding. But any factor is the predictor of pneumothorax and lesion depth is a poor predictor of bleeding complication.

UI  - 18272893
TI  - Nasal CPAP or intubation at birth for very preterm infants.
AB  - In infants born at 25-to-28-weeks' gestation, early nasal CPAP did not significantly reduce the rate of death or bronchopulmonary dysplasia, as compared with intubation. Even though the CPAP group had more incidences of pneumothorax, fewer infants received oxygen at 28 days, and they had fewer days of ventilation. (Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry number, 12606000258550.).

UI  - 18190419
TI  - Deviation from published guidelines in the management of primary spontaneous pneumothorax in Australia.
AB  - There are a several published guidelines recommending treatment pathways for patients with primary spontaneous pneumothorax (PSP). Little is known about how these patients are actually treated in Australia. The aim of this study was to establish treatment patterns for Australian patients with PSP. This was a multicentre retrospective observational study conducted at 19 emergency departments across Australia of adult patients with PSP presenting in the calendar year 2005. In Australia, there is considerable deviation from published guidelines for the management of PSP. In light of the lack of high-quality evidence to assist in choosing treatment approaches, a randomized controlled trial of management strategies is recommended.

UI  - 18062595
TI  - [Fewer lung complications following inspiratory muscle training in patients undergoing coronary bypass surgery: a randomized trial].
AB  - Preoperative physiotherapy, including IMT, statistically significantly reduced the incidence ofPPCs and the duration ofpostoperative hospitalization in patients at high risk of developing a pulmonary complication on undergoing CABG.

UI  - 18057049
TI  - Surgical pleurodesis for Vanderschueren's stage III primary spontaneous pneumothorax.
AB  - The aim of the present study was to determine the impact of various pleurodesis procedures on post-operative morbidity and late recurrence rate after surgical treatment of Vanderschueren's stage III primary spontaneous pneumothorax. Between January 2001 and June 2004, 208 consecutive patients (169 male and 39 female; mean (range) age 25 (12-39) yrs) were submitted to 220 video-assisted thoracoscopic surgical procedures for primary spontaneous pneumothorax. All patients underwent apical lung resection; 112 were assigned at random to mechanical pleural abrasion (group A) and 108 to apical pleurectomy (group B). The two groups of patients showed similar characteristics. No intra- or post-operative deaths occurred. Post-operative morbidity was 6.25% for group A and 12.9% for group B; the two groups exhibited a similar persistent post-operative air leak rate (5.3% in group A and 5.5% in group B), whereas haemothorax was significantly more frequent after apical pleurectomy (eight (7.4%) cases) than after pleural abrasion (one (0.9%) case). The mean duration of follow-up was 46 (24-66) months. Late recurrence occurred in five cases (4.6%) after apical pleurectomy, and in seven (6.2%) after mechanical pleural abrasion. Mechanical pleural abrasion by video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery is safer than apical pleurectomy in the treatment of primary spontaneous pneumothorax. No differences in late recurrence rate were observed between the two procedures.

UI  - 18019634
TI  - [Management of spontaneous pneumothorax: nationwide fact-finding survey among Italian thoracic surgery units].
AB  - Spontaneous pneumothorax, in both the primary and secondary variants, is a relatively frequent disease, occurring at all ages. Management of spontaneous pneumothorax is not standardised. Furthermore, few attempts have been made in the literature to codify the diagnostic workup and treatment. The aim of the present study is to report the results of a nationwide fact-finding survey, focused on current practice in the management of spontaneous pneumothorax by thoracic surgeons. A questionnaire, consisting of items in 6 major areas, was prepared and e-mailed to 49 thoracic surgery units in Italy. Thirty-five centres responded. The results (collected in a database presented at the XXX Congress of the Italian Society of Thoracic Surgeons in October 2006) show agreement on some questions (surgical indications, thoracoscopy as the first-choice surgical technique, use of mechanical staplers...) and a great variability of ideas and attitudes on others (CT scanning in primary spontaneous pneumothorax, definition of persistent air-leak, clamping of the chest tube before removal, pleurodesis techniques, postoperative chest X-ray schedule...). It is the authors' opinion that further work is needed in order to achieve a greater measure of agreement in the management of primary and secondary pneumothorax.

UI  - 17925411
TI  - Occult traumatic pneumothorax: diagnostic accuracy of lung ultrasonography in the emergency department.
AB  - Lung US scans carried out in the ED detect occult PTX and its extension with an accuracy that is almost as high as the reference standard (CT scanning).

UI  - 17919379
TI  - [Effects of pleural drainage using central venous catheter and simple aspiration in treatment of spontaneous pneumothorax: a clinical comparative study].
AB  - With higher curative effect and lower expenses, pleural drainage by using central venous catheter is superior to simple aspiration in treatment of spontaneous pneumothorax, and can be the first choice.

UI  - 17766523
TI  - Continuous positive airway pressure therapy for infants with respiratory distress in non tertiary care centers: a randomized, controlled trial.
AB  - Hudson prong bubble continuous positive airway pressure therapy reduces the need for up-transfer of infants with respiratory distress in nontertiary centers. There is a clinically relevant but not statistically significant increase in the risk of pneumothorax. There are significant benefits associated with continuous positive airway pressure use in larger nontertiary centers.

UI  - 17704884
TI  - Nissen versus Toupet fundoplication: results of a randomized and multicenter trial.
AB  - Functional complications after NF are not avoided with TF.

UI  - 17556032
TI  - Analysis of the factors associated with radiofrequency ablation-induced pneumothorax.
AB  - The number of tumours, electrode positions, and the anticipated electrode trajectory through aerated lung impacts on the likelihood of a pneumothorax. These considerations should be factored into patient selection, the choice of approach, and trajectory used in RFA.

UI  - 17400670
TI  - Electromagnetic navigation diagnostic bronchoscopy in peripheral lung lesions.
AB  - ENB can be used as a stand-alone bronchoscopic technique without compromising diagnostic yield or increasing the risk of pneumothorax. This may result in sizable timesaving and avoids radiation exposure.

UI  - 17379850
TI  - Multimodality bronchoscopic diagnosis of peripheral lung lesions: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Combined EBUS and ENB improves the diagnostic yield of flexible bronchoscopy in peripheral lung lesions without compromising safety.

UI  - 17320585
TI  - The role of awake video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery in spontaneous pneumothorax.
AB  - In our study, awake video-assisted thoracoscopic bullectomy with pleural abrasion proved easily feasible and resulted in shorter hospital stays and reduced procedure-related costs while providing equivalent outcome to procedures performed under general anesthesia.

UI  - 17189116
TI  - Preliminary report of a prospective, randomized trial of underwater seal for spontaneous and iatrogenic pneumothorax.
AB  - Early underwater seal appears to be safe for treating iatrogenic and spontaneous pneumothoraces. It can achieve comparable frequencies of early chest tube removal and avoidance of operation compared with traditional management. A larger, multi-institutional study should be performed to demonstrate that pneumothorax treatment can effectively incorporate small-caliber tubes and underwater seal.

UI  - 17187983
TI  - Efficiency of fleece-bound sealing (TachoSil) of air leaks in lung surgery: a prospective randomised trial.
AB  - The use of TachoSil following pulmonary resection resulted in a reduction in air leakage compared with standard techniques. This reduction in air leakage resulted in a significant reduction in both the time to chest drain removal and the period of hospitalisation.

UI  - 17179343
TI  - Accuracy of transthoracic sonography in detection of pneumothorax after sonographically guided lung biopsy: prospective comparison with chest radiography.
AB  - These preliminary results suggest that transthoracic sonography is as effective as chest radiography in the detection of pneumothorax after transthoracic sonographically guided lung biopsy and may become the method of choice for excluding, diagnosing, and monitoring pneumothorax after transthoracic sonographically guided biopsy. Chest radiography may be needed only for assessment of the extent of pulmonary collapse after transthoracic sonographic diagnosis of pneumothorax or in the presence of discrepancy between transthoracic sonographic findings and clinical presentation.

UI  - 17179270
TI  - A spray catheter technique for pleural anesthesia: a novel method for pain control before talc poudrage.
AB  - Lidocaine via spray catheter is effective for pain control before pleurodesis.

UI  - 17175163
TI  - The approach of fused fissures with fissureless technique decreases the incidence of persistent air leak after lobectomy.
AB  - The fissureless technique appears to be a superior approach for fused fissures in terms of both preventing persistent air leak and reducing the length of hospitalisation. This technique can be performed safely at no additional cost and without adverse consequences.

UI  - 17047215
TI  - Preoperative intensive inspiratory muscle training to prevent postoperative pulmonary complications in high-risk patients undergoing CABG surgery: a randomized clinical trial.
AB  - isrctn.org Identifier: ISRCTN17691887.

UI  - 16982564
TI  - Lung tumor tracking during stereotactic radiotherapy treatment with the CyberKnife: Marker placement and early results.
AB  - Lung tumor tracking during stereotactic radiotherapy with the CyberKnife requires the insertion of markers in or close to the tumor. To reduce the risk of pneumothorax, three methods of marker placement were used: 1) intravascular coil placement, 2) percutaneous intrathoracal, and 3) percutaneous extrathoracal placement. We investigated the toxicity of marker placement and the tumor response of the lung tumor tracking treatment. Markers were placed in 20 patients with 22 tumors: 13 patients received a curative treatment, seven a palliative. The median Charlson Comorbidity Score was 4 (range: 1-8). Platinum fiducials and intravascular embolisation coils were used as markers. In total, 78 markers were placed: 34 intrathoracal, 23 intravascular and 21 extrathoracal. The PTV equaled the GTV + 5 mm. A median dose of 45 Gy (range: 30-60 Gy, in 3 fractions) was prescribed to the 70-85% isodose. The response was evaluated with a CTscan performed 6-8 weeks after the last treatment and routinely thereafter. The median follow-up was 4 months (range: 2-11). No severe toxicity due to the marker placement was seen. Pneumothorax was not seen. The local control was 100%. Four tumors in four patients showed a complete response, 15 tumors in 14 patients a partial response, and three tumors in two patients with metastatic disease had stable disease. No severe toxicity of marker placement was seen due to the appropriate choice of one of the three methods. CyberKnife tumor tracking with markers is feasible and resulted in excellent tumor response. Longer follow-up is needed to validate the local control.

UI  - 16981939
TI  - Duration of pneumothorax as a complication of CT-guided lung biopsy.
AB  - The purpose of this study was to determine management guidelines for biopsy-induced pneumothorax with the assistance of manual aspiration, mainly based on the duration of complicated pneumothorax. Data from 388 consecutive percutaneous needle lung biopsies were examined. Patients with pneumothorax on postbiopsy chest CT images underwent percutaneous manual aspiration with an 18-G i.v. catheter. Frequency and management of biopsy-induced pneumothorax and period to its disappearance were reviewed. Postbiopsy pneumothorax occurred in 133 of 388 (34.3%) procedures. Manual aspiration in 72 of these 133 patients was carried out immediately after biopsy. The pneumothorax had resolved completely on follow-up chest radiographs without chest tube placement in 121 of the 133 pneumothoraces (91.0%). In cases requiring chest tube, the mean period from biopsy until resolution of the pneumothorax was 6.0 +/- 5.3 days, but was only 2.4 +/- 2.9 days when chest tube placement was not needed. Specifically, time until recovery was short both in those not requiring manual aspiration (2.1 +/- 3.4 days) and in those with a pneumothorax that disappeared completely or almost completely after manual aspiration (1.9 +/- 2.0 days). The almost equally short recovery periods in patients not requiring manual aspiration and those requiring immediate manual aspiration indicates the value of rapid management.

UI  - 16928534
TI  - Intrapleural instillation of autologous blood in the treatment of prolonged air leak after lobectomy: a prospective randomized controlled trial.
AB  - This technique is effective in sealing air leaks after lobectomy. It allows earlier chest drain removal and shortens hospital stay.

UI  - 16875950
TI  - The ultrasonographic deep sulcus sign in traumatic pneumothorax.
AB  - A series of 186 patients with blunt chest trauma was studied with transthoracic ultrasonography to diagnose pneumothorax and to evaluate its size and location. The results were compared with bedside chest radiography and spiral CT scan. The prevalence of pneumothorax on CT scan was 56/186 (30.1%). Pneumothorax was proven on radiography in 30/56 cases without false positive results: "radiographic deep sulcus sign" was evident in 3/29 cases, 26/29 cases being occult. The ultrasound study demonstrated the presence of pneumothorax in 55/56 patients: one occult pneumothorax was missed and no false positive results were observed. The CT scan differed of +/-2.3 cm (range 1-5 cm) from the US study in evaluating size and location of pneumothorax. In conclusion, ultrasound study may detect occult pneumothorax undiagnosed by standard plain radiography. It reflects accurately the extent of pneumothorax if compared with CT scan, outlining the "ultrasonographic deep sulcus sign" on anterior chest wall.

UI  - 16775568
TI  - Percutaneous versus surgical tracheostomy: A randomized controlled study with long-term follow-up.
AB  - Both percutaneous tracheostomies and surgical tracheostomies can be safely performed at the bedside by experienced, skilled practitioners.

UI  - 16675257
TI  - A new bioabsorbable sleeve for lung staple-line reinforcement (FOREseal): report of a three-center phase II clinical trial.
AB  - FOREseal is an ergonomic, safe, and promising new material instead of nonabsorbable materials and xenomaterials for staple-line reinforcement. A randomized comparative study is now in progress.

UI  - 16636410
TI  - Imaging pathologic pulmonary air and fluid accumulation by functional and absolute EIT.
AB  - The increasing use of EIT in clinical research on severely ill lung patients requires a clarification of the influence of pathologic impedance distributions on the validity of the resulting tomograms. Significant accumulation of low-conducting air (e.g. pneumothorax or emphysema) or well-conducting liquid (e.g. haematothorax or atelectases) may conflict with treating the imaging problem as purely linear. First, we investigated the influence of stepwise inflation and deflation by up to 300 ml of air and 300 ml of Ringer solution into the pleural space of five pigs on the resulting tomograms during ventilation at constant tidal volume. Series of EIT images representing relative impedance changes were generated on the basis of a modified Sheffield back projection algorithm and ventilation distribution was displayed as functional (f-EIT) tomograms. In addition, a modified simultaneous iterative reconstruction technique (SIRT) was applied to quantify the resistivity distribution on an absolute level scaled in Omega m (a-EIT). Second, we applied these two EIT techniques on four intensive care patients with inhomogeneous air and fluid distribution and compared the EIT results to computed tomography (CT) and to a reference set of intrathoracic resistivity data of 20 healthy volunteers calculated by SIRT. The results of the animal model show that f-EIT based on back projection is not disturbed by the artificial pneumo- or haematothorax. Application of SIRT allows reliable discrimination and detection of the location and amplitude of pneumo- or haematothorax. These results were supported by the good agreement between the electrical impedance tomograms and CT scans on patients and by the significant differences of regional resistivity data between patients and healthy volunteers.

UI  - 16627865
TI  - Fluorescein-enhanced autofluorescence thoracoscopy in patients with primary spontaneous pneumothorax and normal subjects.
AB  - Lungs in patients with PSP show significantly more abnormalities at WLT when compared with normal subjects. High-grade FEAT lesions were exclusively present in PSP, and predominantly at lung zones that appeared normal at white light inspection. These findings suggest that significant parenchymal abnormalities are not limited to lesions visible during WLT, such as blebs and bullae.

UI  - 16617661
TI  - The application of deep-frozen and radiation-sterilized human amnion as a biological dressing to prevent prolonged air leakage in thoracic surgery.
AB  - Amnion allografts have been used in a number of clinical applications. However, no references of their use in thoracic surgery have been identified. Air leakage, is one of the most common complications in thoracic surgery, resulting from visceral pleura and lung injuries caused intraoperatively, in particular following rethoracotomy. Mechanical and manual sutures are also potential sites of air leakage. The aim of our study was to evaluate the usefulness of human amnion grafts in the treatment of air leakage following thoracic surgery. Deep-frozen, radiation-sterilized (35 kGy) human amnion grafts prepared in the Central Tissue Bank in Warsaw (Poland) were used. The amnion allografts were applied to 20 patients who had surgery: 11 thoracotomies and 9 rethoracotomies were performed (15 resections of 1-12 metastases, 3 lobectomies and 2 residual tumor resections). During lung ventilation the air leakage sites were covered by the amnion flap attached by moderate compression and stabilized by sutures. Air leakage and drainage were measured during the postoperative period. In 80% of the cases, no traces of air leakage was observed. The preliminary results suggest that the application of human amnion grafts may be a safe and effective method for preventing prolonged air leakage after thoracic surgery.

UI  - 16520564
TI  - [The effects of deep breathing methods on pulmonary ventilatory function of pneumothorax patients undergoing a thoracotomy].
AB  - This study showed that the deep breathing exercises with an Incentive Spirometer and deep breathing exercise without an Incentive Spirometer were both effective for recovering the pulmonary ventilatory function after a thoracotomy.

UI  - 16507846
TI  - Aspiration versus tube drainage in primary spontaneous pneumothorax: a randomised study.
AB  - This randomised study was designed to compare clinical outcomes for simple aspiration versus tube thoracostomy, in the treatment of the first primary spontaneous pneumothorax (PSP) attack. A randomised trial, comparing simple aspiration with tube thoracostomy, in 137 patients with a first episode of PSP was carried out. Immediate success was obtained in 40 out of the 65 patients (62%) randomly assigned to undergo simple aspiration and in 49 out of the 72 patients (68%) who had been randomly assigned to undergo tube thoracostomy. The 1-week success rates were: 58 (89%) patients in the intention-to-treat simple aspiration group and 63 (88%) patients in the tube thoracostomy group. In the aspiration group, there were more recurrences during the 3-month follow-up period (15 versus 8%), though the difference was not significant. Recurrence rates at 1 and 2 yrs were 16 (22%) and 20 (31%) for patients who had undergone simple aspiration, respectively, and 17 (24%) and 18 (25%) for patients who had undergone tube thoracostomies, respectively. Complications occurred in 5 (7%) patients who had undergone a tube thoracostomy and 1 (2%) patient who had undergone simple aspiration. Analgesia was required in 22 (34%) patients of the simple aspiration group versus 40 (56%) patients of the tube thoracostomy group. These findings suggest that simple aspiration could be an acceptable alternative to tube thoracostomy in the treatment of primary spontaneous pneumothorax.

UI  - 16423210
TI  - Efficacy and safety of iodopovidone pleurodesis through tube thoracostomy.
AB  - Iodopovidone can be used as an effective and safe agent for (chemical) pleurodesis (through tube thoracostomy), which is inexpensive and readily available.

UI  - 16406560
TI  - Comparison between two methods for estimating pneumothorax size from chest X-rays.
AB  - The Rhea method for estimating pneumothorax size is acceptably accurate for smaller pneumothoraces but may significantly under-estimate the size of larger pneumothoraces.

UI  - 16394682
TI  - Pneumothorax in the intensive care unit: incidence, risk factors, and outcome.
AB  - Iatrogenic pneumothorax is a life-threatening complication seen in 3% of ICU patients. Incorporating risk factors for IP into preventive strategies should reduce the occurrence of IP.

UI  - 16393735
TI  - Effects on smoking cessation: naltrexone combined with a cognitive behavioral treatment based on the community reinforcement approach.
AB  - A promising option in substance abuse treatment is the Community Reinforcement Approach (CRA). The opioid antagonist naltrexone (NTX) may work in combination with nicotine replacement therapy (NRT) to block the effects of smoking stimuli in abstinent smokers. Effects of lower doses than 50 mg/dd. have not been reported. A study was conducted in Amsterdam in 2000/2001 with the objective to explore the effects of the combination NTX (25/50-mg dd.), NRT, and CRA in terms of craving and abstinence. In a randomized open label, 2 x 2 between subjects design, 25 recovered spontaneous pneumothorax (SP) participants received 8 weeks of treatment. Due to side effects, only 3 participants were compliant in the 50-mg NTX condition. Craving significantly declined between each measurement and there was a significant interaction between decline in craving and craving measured at baseline. The abstinence rate in the CRA group was nearly double that in the non-psychosocial therapy group (46% vs. 25%; NS) at 3 months follow-up after treatment.

UI  - 16357330
TI  - Additional minocycline pleurodesis after thoracoscopic surgery for primary spontaneous pneumothorax.
AB  - Although associated with intense immediate chest pain, additional minocycline pleurodesis is a safe and convenient procedure that can reduce the rate of ipsilateral recurrence after thoracoscopic treatment for primary spontaneous pneumothorax.

UI  - 16141018
TI  - A prospective comparison of supine chest radiography and bedside ultrasound for the diagnosis of traumatic pneumothorax.
AB  - With CT as the criterion standard, US is more sensitive than flat AP chest radiography in the diagnosis of traumatic PTX. Furthermore, US allowed sonologists to differentiate between small, medium, and large PTXs with good agreement with CT results.

UI  - 16032583
TI  - Clinical evaluation of the lateral sagittal infraclavicular block developed by MRI studies.
AB  - Block effectiveness (91%) and onset time (20 minutes) were satisfactory and comparable to the vertical paracoracoid approach. The low rate of axillary vessel punctures (2%) may be the most important advantage of this block. The needle insertion depth measurements confirmed the MRI findings, but the dorsal angle was steeper than predicted.

UI  - 15821648
TI  - Video-assisted wedge resection and local radiotherapy for peripheral lung cancer in high-risk patients: the Cancer and Leukemia Group B (CALGB) 9335, a phase II, multi-institutional cooperative group study.
AB  - Clinical staging in high-risk patients is often inaccurate (45% difference from pathologic staging). Intention to treat clinically staged T1 disease by video-assisted wedge resection is associated with a high failure rate. Pathologically staged T1 lesions can be successfully resected in 75% of cases; however, narrow resection margins remain a concern.

UI  - 15740944
TI  - A prospective randomized controlled trial of suction versus non-suction to the under-water seal drains following lung resection.
AB  - Applying suction to the underwater seal drains following lung surgery makes no difference in terms of air leak duration. In the light of this finding we have adopted a uniform policy of no suction being applied to the underwater seal, from the time of surgery, unless a specific clinical judgment is made to use it. The anticipated gains are that this will reduce work and cost and aid mobilization.

UI  - 15680805
TI  - Bronchoscopic lung-volume reduction with one-way valves in patients with heterogenous emphysema.
AB  - Bronchoscopic lung-volume reduction with one-way valves can be performed with acceptable short-term safety and worthwhile functional benefits.

UI  - 15553207
TI  - Role of simple needle aspiration in the management of pneumothorax.
AB  - Simple aspiration should be the initial modality of treatment for primary spontaneous and iatrogenic pneumothoraces. For secondary spontaneous pneumothorax and in conditions where pleurodesis is indicated, ICTD remains the treatment of choice.

UI  - 15525754
TI  - Transthoracic percutaneous radiofrequency ablation for liver tumors in the hepatic dome.
AB  - Computed tomography (CT)-guided transthoracic radiofrequency ablation was performed for nine liver tumors of eight patients, which were located in the hepatic dome and undetectable by ultrasound (US). A total 11 sessions of ablation were performed. Complications were noted in five sessions (45%) and no complications were noted in six sessions (55%). Pneumothorax was noted in five sessions (45%), including two sessions (18%) with major pneumothorax requiring a chest tube. Major complications were seen in two sessions (18%), major pneumothorax and both major pneumothorax and moderate pleural effusion, respectively. CT-guided transthoracic radiofrequency ablation may be an alternative for treatments of liver tumor in the hepatic dome.

UI  - 15514345
TI  - Variation in use of video assisted thoracic surgery in the United Kingdom.
AB  - 

UI  - 15359923
TI  - Alveolar epithelial permeability in patients with primary spontaneous pneumothorax as determined by Tc-99m DTPA aerosol scintigraphy.
AB  - This study demonstrates that pulmonary epithelial permeability is not altered in PSP patients; the clearance rate of Tc-99m DTPA shows no difference between apical and basal parts of each lung.

UI  - 15276488
TI  - Axillary thoracotomy versus videothoracoscopy for the treatment of primary spontaneous pneumothorax.
AB  - Video-assisted thoracoscopy and axillary thoracotomy offer similar results in the surgical treatment of primary spontaneous pneumothorax. The rate of complication is low and the level of pain is acceptable without long-term sequelae.

UI  - 15196099
TI  - Routine X-ray control of upper central venous lines: Is it necessary?
AB  - In the hands of trained clinicians, insertion of CVCs is a safe procedure. We found no value of routine X-ray control and omission of routine chest X-ray must be considered.

UI  - 15071872
TI  - [Evaluation of postoperative pain relief after video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery (VATS) for spontaneous pneumothorax].
AB  - We should avoid the insertion of a chest tube before the operation as much as possible. Furthermore early operation and intercostal nerve blockade before the operation were useful to prevent postoperative pain and its shift to chronic post thoracostomy pain.

UI  - 14760125
TI  - Use of totally implantable central venous access ports for high-dose chemotherapy and peripheral blood stem cell transplantation: results of a monocentre series of 376 patients.
AB  - The use of TIAPs has resulted in a safe and effective option for high-dose chemotherapy deliverance and stem cell transplantation, in spite of inducing severe neutropenia and increasing the risk of sepsis in this category of oncology patient.

UI  - 14747106
TI  - Efficacy and safety of topical application of human fibrinogen/thrombin-coated collagen patch (TachoComb) for treatment of air leakage after standard lobectomy.
AB  - TC could be proven as well-tolerated and safe. In the subgroup of patients with established air leakage, TC showed superior potential in reduction of intra-operative air leakage as well as in reduction of intensity and duration of postoperative air leakage.

UI  - 14718331
TI  - Prospective investigation of adverse effects of acupuncture in 97 733 patients.
AB  - 

UI  - 14674969
TI  - Reduction in the incidence of awareness using BIS monitoring.
AB  - The use of BIS monitoring during general anaesthesia requiring endotracheal intubation and/or muscle relaxants was associated with a significantly reduced incidence of awareness as compared with a historical control population.

UI  - 14612164
TI  - [Infectious complications related to non-tunneled central venous catheters in immunocompromised patients: prospective study about 210 cases].
AB  - Non-tunneled catheters in immunocompromised patients (adults and children) is a safe technique, and is an alternative to the Hickman catheters which are most widely used today in patients undergoing bone marrow transplantation.

UI  - 14577068
TI  - Thoracoscopic treatment of spontaneous pneumothorax in children.
AB  - Thoracoscopic treatment of SP is safe and effective in children. It can be performed under regional anesthesia also in children with severe respiratory insufficiency. Because the complications and recurrences are encountered more frequently in children with an underlying lung disease, special care in surgical manipulation is required in this subgroup of patients with SP.

UI  - 14570678
TI  - Ultrasound guidance speeds execution and improves the quality of supraclavicular block.
AB  - Ultrasound-guided neurostimulator-confirmed supraclavicular block is more rapidly performed and provides a block of better quality than supraclavicular block using anatomic landmarks and neurostimulator confirmation.

UI  - 12898048
TI  - [Vertical infraclavicular blockade of the brachial plexus (VIP). A modified method to verify the puncture point under consideration of the risk of pneumothorax].
AB  - As a consequence, we assume that if the distance between the leading points jugulum and ventral process of acromion is smaller than 20 cm, the puncture point for a vertical infraclavicular blockade of the brachial plexus should be lateralized as described above; additionally, the "finger-point" should be determined in order to verify the puncture point and to finally give an idea of the direction, in case of a possible need for correcting the puncture point.

UI  - 12846960
TI  - [Video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery in the treatment of pneumothorax: 107 consecutive procedures].
AB  - The aim of this prospective study was to evaluate video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery (VATS) in primary and secondary spontaneous pneumothoraces. Over a 37-month period, 107 videothoracoscopic interventions were performed to treat spontaneous pneumothorax in 105 patients, 78 men and 27 women, whose average age was 28 years.Indications for surgery included recurrent ipsilateral pneumothorax (47 cases), persistent air leak (23 cases), hypertensive pneumothorax (14 cases), history of contralateral pneumothorax (13 cases), and elective surgery (10 cases). All of these patients were treated by endoscopic resection of the bullae (or apical zone in cases where the suspected abnormalities, or bullae, could not be visualized) plus physical pleurodesis. There were no perioperative deaths. Complications occurred in 6% of the cases of primary spontaneous pneumothorax and in 45% of the cases of secondary spontaneous pneumothorax. The complications among the secondary pneumothorax patients ranged widely from postoperative subcutaneous emphysema (resolved through simple, unassisted observation) to the need for an accessory minithoracotomy. Two patients (1.8%) suffered a recurrence of pneumothorax 4 and 8 months, respectively, after VATS treatment.

UI  - 12811722
TI  - Pigtail tube drainage in the treatment of spontaneous pneumothorax.
AB  - We report our experience in using pigtail tube drainage in the treatment of spontaneous pneumothorax compared with traditional chest tube thoracotomy. One hundred two patients were included and analyzed. Fifty patients were treated with the pigtail tube and 52 patients were treated with the traditional chest tube. The extubation time, mean hospital stay, evacuation rate, and total cost were similar without a significant statistical difference. Among the chest tube group, 15 underwent surgical intervention as a result of delayed resolution and hemopneumothorax; and among the pigtail group, 15 had other procedures for pneumothorax, including chest tube insertion and surgical intervention. This verifies our initial suspicion that the effectiveness of the pigtail drainage system is no less than that of the chest tube. Therefore, when considering ambulatory ability and good patient compliance, the pigtail tube drainage system can be considered as the treatment of choice for spontaneous pneumothorax.

UI  - 12735584
TI  - Suction versus water seal after thoracoscopy for primary spontaneous pneumothorax: prospective randomized study.
AB  - Video-assisted thoracoscopic apical pleurectomy is effective and safe for treating primary spontaneous pneumothorax. Placing chest tubes on water seal after a brief period of suction shortens the duration of chest tube placement and hence the hospital stay.

UI  - 12734898
TI  - Treatment of subglottic stenosis, due to Wegener's granulomatosis, with intralesional corticosteroids and dilation.
AB  - ILCD is effective therapy for SGS due to WG. Best results are obtained when these endoscopic techniques are performed prior to other forms of surgery, which may produce extensive scar formation. Based on this experience, the authors recommend ILCD as the preferred therapy in WG-SGS.

UI  - 12728115
TI  - Risk factors for intraventricular hemorrhage in very low birth weight premature infants: a retrospective case-control study.
AB  - Our results confirm that the development of IVH is associated with early sepsis and failure to give antenatal steroid treatment. We propose that fertility treatment (and especially IVF) may be a new risk factor, and more research is needed to assess its role.

UI  - 12630999
TI  - Patient positioning after fine needle lung biopsy-effect on pneumothorax rate.
AB  - Precautionary positioning after TTNB does not reduce the incidence of postbiopsy pneumothorax and rate of chest tube insertion.

UI  - 12625081
TI  - Patient positioning after lung biopsy: influence on the incidence of pneumothorax.
AB  - Positioning the patient either decubitus biopsy-side-down or lying directly on the puncture site after lung biopsy does not appear to affect complication rates.

UI  - 12598275
TI  - An evaluation of the supraclavicular plumb-bob technique for brachial plexus block by magnetic resonance imaging.
AB  - In magnetic resonance images of volunteers, simulated needle passes with the "plumb-bob" approach to the supraclavicular brachial plexus block were analyzed for precision and risk profile. To avoid needle contact with the lung, the subclavian vein, and the subclavian artery, our results suggest a change in the method's initial needle direction.

UI  - 12561150
TI  - Long-term results after video-assisted thoracic surgery for spontaneous pneumothorax.
AB  - VATS treatment of spontaneous pneumothorax proves to be effective. In cases of SSP, VATS treatment is feasible but a higher morbidity rate should be anticipated.

UI  - 12412696
TI  - Talcage by medical thoracoscopy for primary spontaneous pneumothorax is more cost-effective than drainage: a randomised study.
AB  - Simple thoracoscopic talcage (TT) is a safe and effective treatment of primary spontaneous pneumothorax (PSP). However, its efficacy has not previously been estimated in comparison with standard conservative therapy (pleural drainage (PD)). In this prospective randomised comparison of two well-established procedures of treating PSP requiring at least a chest tube, cost-effectiveness, safety and pain control was evaluated in 108 patients with PSP (61 TT and 47 PD). Patients in both groups had comparable clinical characteristics. Drainage and hospitalisation duration were similar in TT and PD patients. There were no complications in either group. The immediate success rate was different: after prolonged drainage (>7 days), 10 out of 47 PD patients, but only 1 out of 61 TT patients required a TT as a second procedure. Total costs of hospitalisation including any treatment procedure were not significantly different between TT and PD patients. Pain, measured daily by visual analogue scales, was statistically higher during the first 3 days in TT patients but not in those patients receiving opiates. One month after leaving hospital, there was no significant difference in residual pain or full working ability: 20 out of 58 (34%) versus 10 out of 47 (21%) and 36 out of 61 (59%) versus 26 out of 39 (67%) in TT versus PD groups, respectively. After 5 yrs of follow-up, there had been only three out of 59 (5%) recurrences of pneumothorax after TT, but 16 out of 47 (34%) after conservative treatment by PD. Cost calculation favoured TT pleurodesis especially with regard to recurrences. In conclusion, thoracoscopic talc pleurodesis under local anaesthesia is superior to conservative treatment by chest tube drainage in cases of primary spontaneous pneumothorax that fail simple aspiration, provided there is efficient control of pain by opioids.

UI  - 12174624
TI  - [Strategy for preventing recurrence after video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery for spontaneous pneumothorax; efficacy of talc pleurodesis and absorbable mesh covering].
AB  - Video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery (VATS) has been widely used in the treatment of spontaneous pneumothorax. The unexpectedly high increase of the recurrence rate is the most important problem. We examined the interaction between recurrence, clinical features and patient's backgrounds. The main causes of recurrence were oversight of bullae and the emphysematous changes at the periphery of the site where an autosuture device was used. 90% of the recurrence occurred in the patients with type III small diffuse bullae. Introduction of the regional talc pleurodesis and covering stapled line with absorbable mesh were extremely useful to lower the recurrence rate after VATS for spontaneous pneumothorax.

UI  - 11991872
TI  - Manual aspiration versus chest tube drainage in first episodes of primary spontaneous pneumothorax: a multicenter, prospective, randomized pilot study.
AB  - Although there is no agreement on the optimal treatment of patients presenting with a first episode of primary spontaneous pneumothorax, the majority of physicians prefer chest tube drainage for air evacuation. Manual aspiration of air has been proposed by some, but lack of sound comparative data and safety data has limited its use. In this first randomized, prospective, multicenter pilot study, 60 patients with a first episode of primary spontaneous pneumothorax were randomly allocated to manual aspiration (n = 27) or chest tube drainage (n = 33). Immediate success was obtained in 16 out of 27 (59.3%) in the manual aspiration group, and in 21 out of 33 (63.6%) in the chest tube drainage group (p = 0.9). One-week success rates were 25 out of 27 (93%) in the intention-to-treat manual aspiration group and 28 out of 33 (85%) in the chest tube drainage group (p = 0.4). Fourteen of 27 manual aspiration patients (52%) were hospitalized, versus 100% of the chest tube drainage patients (p < 0.0001). Recurrence rates with at least 1-year follow-up were 7 out of 26 (26%) in the manual aspiration group, and 9 out of 33 (27.3%) in the chest tube drainage group (p = 0.9). There were no complications associated with manual aspiration. Although statistical power is insufficient to formally confirm therapeutic equality, this pilot study suggests that in first episodes of primary spontaneous pneumothorax, manual aspiration seems equally effective as chest tube drainage and is safe, well tolerated, and feasible as an outpatient procedure in the majority of patients.

UI  - 11982877
TI  - Treatment of pneumothorax in newborns: use of venous catheter versus chest tube.
AB  - Insertion of a venous catheter is a safe alternative to chest tube placement as a method of draining air from newborn patients with pneumothorax. This is an easy and quick bedside procedure and is particularly useful for newborn patients that require immediate air drainage.

UI  - 11967593
TI  - Relationship between ventilatory settings and barotrauma in the acute respiratory distress syndrome.
AB  - Clinical studies maintaining P(plat) lower than 35 cmH(2)O found no apparent relationship between ventilatory parameters and pneumothorax. Analysis of the literature suggests a correlation when patients receive mechanical ventilation with P(plat) levels exceeding 35 cmH(2)O.

UI  - 11949746
TI  - Removal of chest tubes in children without water seal after elective thoracic procedures: a randomized prospective study.
AB  - A water seal trial is not necessary for safe removal of chest tubes in children undergoing elective surgery. Chest tubes can be removed safely and earlier when pulled directly from suction for both pulmonary and nonpulmonary thoracic pediatric procedures.

UI  - 11903176
TI  - Efficacy of daily bedside chest radiography as visualized by digital luminescence radiography.
AB  - To determine the diagnostic impact of daily bedside chest radiography in comparison with digital luminescence technique (DLR; storage phosphor radiography) and conventional film screen radiography, a prospective randomized study was completed in 210 mechanically ventilated patients with a total of 420 analysed radiographs. The patients were allocated to two groups: 150 patients underwent DLR, and 60 patients underwent conventional film screen radiography. Radiological analysis was performed consensually and therapeutic efficacy was assessed by the clinicians. There was no statistical significant difference between the frequency of abnormal findings seen on DLR and conventional film screen radiography. In total, 448 abnormal findings were present in 249 of 300 DLR and 97 of 120 conventional film screen radiographs. The most common findings were signs of overhydration (41%), pleural effusion (31%), partial collapse of the lung (11%) and pneumothorax (2%). One hundred and twenty-three of 448 (27%) of these abnormal findings were thought to have a considerable impact on patient management. The high rate of abnormal findings with significant impact on patient management suggests that the use of daily bedside chest radiography may be reasonable.

UI  - 11888968
TI  - Suction vs water seal after pulmonary resection: a randomized prospective study.
AB  - Placing chest tubes on water seal after a brief period of suction after pulmonary resection shortens the duration of the air leak and likely decreases the time that the chest tubes remain in place. Adoption of this practice may result in lower morbidity and lower hospital costs.

UI  - 11884772
TI  - CT/fluoroscopy-guided transthoracic needle biopsy: sensitivity and complication rate in 98 procedures.
AB  - CT/F-guided CNB is a reliable method to obtain thoracic biopsies, with a complication rate of 2.0%.

UI  - 11878689
TI  - Transtracheal high frequency jet ventilation for endoscopic airway surgery: a multicentre study.
AB  - Serious complications during high frequency jet ventilation (HFJV) are rare and have been documented in animals and in case reports or short series of patients with a difficult airway. We report complications of transtracheal HFFJV in a prospective multicentre study of 643 patients having laryngoscopy or laryngeal laser surgery. A transtracheal catheter could not be inserted in two patients (0.3%). Subcutaneous emphysema (8.4%) was more frequent after multiple tracheal punctures. There were seven pneumothoraces (1%), two after laser damage to the injector, one after difficult laryngoscopy, four with no clear cause. Arterial desaturation of oxygen was more frequent during laser surgery and in overweight patients. Transtracheal ventilation from a ventilator with an automatic cut-off device is a reliable method for experienced users. Control of airway pressure does not prevent a low frequency of pneumothorax.

UI  - 11844435
TI  - [Spanish multicenter study of video-assisted thoracoscopy surgery].
AB  - Technological developments have led to new applications for VATS as well as improved outcome for the most common, well established indications. It is advisable to continue to perform prospective, randomized, controlled trials to validate techniques for which little experience has accumulated.

UI  - 11820420
TI  - Flutter valve drainage bag is a useful device for the pleural drainage.
AB  - The results of this study suggest that flutter valve drainage bag is a safe and feasible system in the most cases when pleural drainage is needed in the treatment of pneumothorax and pleural effusion.

UI  - 11803622
TI  - [Central venous catheterization: complications of different placements].
AB  - On our experience, we advocate the low lateral approach to the internal jugular vein as first choice technique for venipuncture in both adults and children for both short and long-term central venous approach, because it is associated to high rate of outcome and to low rate of complications in comparison with other techniques.

UI  - 11803347
TI  - The role of autologous blood injection on postoperative air leak at lung resections.
AB  - We believe this simple and cheap method could be used at least in some instances where additional staple reinforcement would be necessary. It may also be remembered when air leaks are encountered at suture holes after suturing the lung.

UI  - 11736777
TI  - Somatic paravertebral nerve blockade. Incidence of failed block and complications.
AB  - The failure rate and complications following thoracic and lumbar paravertebral blocks performed in 620 adults and 42 children were recorded. The technique failure rate in adults was 6.1%. No failures occurred in children. The complications recorded were: inadvertent vascular puncture (6.8%); hypotension (4.0%); haematoma (2.4%); pain at site of skin puncture (1.3%); signs of epidural or intrathecal spread (1.0%); pleural puncture (0.8%); pneumothorax (0.5%). No complications were noted in the children. The use of a bilateral paravertebral technique was found approximately to double the likelihood of inadvertent vascular puncture (9% vs. 5%) and to cause an eight-fold increase in pleural puncture and pneumothorax (3% vs. 0.4%), when compared with unilateral blocks. The incidence of other complications was similar between bilateral and unilateral blocks.

UI  - 11642024
TI  - [The comparative costs of vancomycin treatment versus teicoplanin in osteoarticular infection caused by methicillin-resistant staphylococci].
AB  - This clinical and economical study compared two glycopeptides regimen i.e., vancomycin and teicoplanin in the treatment of osteoarticular infection involving methicillin-resistant staphylococcus. After randomization, 15 patients (group 1) received vancomycin (23 F per gram) in continuous infusion through a central venous catheter and 15 others (group 2) intramuscular teicoplanin (311-357 F a 400 mg vial). The clinical study focused on treatment tolerance in an in-patient setting as well as in a non in-patient one. The cost analysis focused on total expenses including those of antibiotics, those of medical devices for antibiotic administration and those of the complications caused by the antibiotics use. Total expenses per patient averaged 8744 F with vancomycin and 8555 F with teicoplanin (NS). The apparent money saving by using a cheap antibiotic (i.e. vancomycin) was illusionary as one took in account the expenses for medical devices e.g., central venous catheters required to administer vancomycin and the complications due to the use of these devices.

UI  - 11486754
TI  - Alternative technique for subclavian vein cannulation.
AB  - Such results, although pertinent to a still limited study, testify to an improvement in terms of security and efficacy, with the new alternative technique without an increase in costs.

UI  - 11450784
TI  - Efficacy of thoracic computerized tomography in blunt chest trauma.
AB  - Studies suggest that thoracic computed tomography (TCT) is superior to plain chest X-ray (CXR) in the detection of blunt chest injury. This study examined whether TCT provides additional information to routine CXR findings, whether the additional information results in a management change, and whether TCT is more useful in patients with particular mechanisms of injury. Level I trauma patients were prospectively placed into two groups. Control (CTL) group patients underwent TCT as a result of either clinical chest symptoms or abnormal CXR findings. The mechanism (MECH) group contained patients who had no thoracic signs and a negative CXR but experienced severe mechanisms of injury. TCT identified injuries not seen on CXR in 66 per cent of the CTL group and 39 per cent of the MECH group. Identification of these injuries resulted in a highly significant (P < 0.001) change in clinical management in 20 per cent of the CTL group and 5 per cent of the MECH group. TCT appears to be most helpful in the acute evaluation of trauma patients when roentgenographic evidence of chest injury exists and provides additional information impacting on the care of the patient 20 per cent of the time. In patients with severe mechanisms of injury and normal CXRs TCT expeditiously identifies occult chest injuries that require treatment in 5 per cent of this population.

UI  - 11383811
TI  - Trial of a novel synthetic sealant in preventing air leaks after lung resection.
AB  - Air leaks after lung resection occur in most patients. The application of this novel surgical sealant appears to be effective and safe in preventing postoperative air leaks.

UI  - 11383810
TI  - Randomized controlled trial of a synthetic sealant for preventing alveolar air leaks after lobectomy.
AB  - Surgical lung sealant may be a useful adjunct to conventional techniques for reducing moderate and severe AAL after lobectomy, but its use seems to increase the risk of postoperative empyema.

UI  - 11383809
TI  - Prospective randomized trial compares suction versus water seal for air leaks.
AB  - Placing chest tubes on water seal seems superior to wall suction for stopping air leaks after pulmonary resection. However, water seal does not stop expiratory leaks that are 4/7 or greater. Pneumothorax may occur when chest tubes are placed on seal with leaks this large.

UI  - 11374137
TI  - [Advantages of video assisted thoracic surgery in the treatment of spontaneous pneumothorax].
AB  - Spontaneous pneumothorax (SP) is a disabling condition mostly affecting young, thin and otherwise healthy males. It is usually caused by ruptured pleural blebs. The first treatment is the insertion of a chest tube (ICT) but in a great number of patients there is recurrence of the disease. We believe that the video assisted thoracoscopy (VATS) is the best treatment possible because it allows us to treat the ruptured bleb radically avoiding any recurrence. In order to prove it, 40 patients admitted in a five-year period, with a SP, were randomly assigned to be treated by ICT or VATS. The ICT patients were in the hospital a mean time of 7.5 (4 to 15) days and the VATS patients, 5.3 (2 to 7) days (P < .05). ICT patients required analgesic drugs during 76.8 +/- 31 hours and VATS patients 38.4 +/- 13 hours (p < .05). From the ICT group, 8 (53%) patients had recurrence of the disease and 6 (40%) had a prolonged air leak, while none of the patients of the VATS group had any complication (< .001). Cost of ICT and VATS were $ 850 and $ 1730, respectively. According to these results, VATS should be the treatment of choice in SP patients. It treats the cause of the disease. It also reduces the hospitalization time, the use of analgesic drugs post surgery, decreases recurrence of the disease and the cost of the treatment. Moreover, the patients were back to work in less than 10 days.

UI  - 11303163
TI  - Chest tube removal: end-inspiration or end-expiration?
AB  - Discontinuation of chest tubes at the end of inspiration or at the end of expiration has a similar rate of post-removal pneumothorax. Both methods are equally safe.

UI  - 10752890
TI  - Percutaneous CT-guided biopsy: improved confirmation of sampling site and needle positioning using a multistep technique at CT fluoroscopy.
AB  - We describe a new multistep procedure for CT fluoroscopy-guided core biopsy, which allows confirmation of the biopsy-sampling trough and the final needle tip position prior to sampling. Twelve lesions measuring < or =2 cm or in close proximity to vital structures were biopsied using commercially available biopsy systems. Diagnostic biopsies were obtained in all cases. Mean fluoroscopy time was 11.1 +/- 2.8 s per biopsy. This technique may have the potential to improve the accuracy and safety of CT-guided biopsy.

UI  - 10752776
TI  - Video-assisted blebectomy using a flexible scope and a bleb implement.
AB  - We describe herein our new technique of performing video-assisted thoracic surgery (VATS) using a flexible scope and a bleb implement which allows for a reduction in the risk of overlooking small and flat blebs in patients with a spontaneous pneumothorax (SP). This technique was performed in 26 consecutive patients with a SP. A skin incision about 18 mm long was made in the area over which the patients had specified preoperatively, and meticulous observation of the apex and superior segment was performed using a bleb implement. Partial pneumonectomy with endoscopic staplers and laser ablation were carried out for pleural lesions. We found that VATS combined with a flexible scope and a bleb implement resulted in better visibility for detection and removal of any small and flat blebs.

UI  - 11068985
TI  - Management of persistent or recurrent pneumothorax with a two millimeter mini-videothoracoscope.
AB  - The aim of this study was to assess whether a 2 mm mini-videothoracoscope could be used as a conventional videothoracoscope in the management of pneumothorax. Thirty patients of ages from 15 to 35 years with recurrent or persistent pneumothorax were involved in this study. The subjects consisted of 27 males and three females. The indications for videothoracoscopic surgery were ipsilateral recurrent pneumothorax in 12 (40%), persistent air leakage in 15 (50%), visible bullae in 2 (6%), and 1 bilateral pneumothorax (3%). The mean operation time was 42.9+/-12.9 min. The average number of uses for Endo-GIA was 1.9+/-1.3 times and chest tube indwelling time was 3.8+/-2.7 days. The average amount of keptoprofen (100 mg/2 mL/ampule) used on the first postoperative day was 1.2+/-1.1 ampules. No parenteral opioids were given to the patients for pain control after the procedures. After a follow up of 8 to 20 months, there was only one recurrence among the patients. In conclusion, a 2 mm videothoracoscope, in selective cases, can be successfully used as conventional videothoracoscope to manage persistent or recurrent pneumothorax with cosmetically excellent results.

UI  - 11016338
TI  - Pneumoperitoneum after concomitant resection of the right middle and lower lobes (bilobectomy).
AB  - We conclude that pneumoperitoneum after bilobectomy is safe and easy to do. It decreases the incidence of air leaks and of pneumothoraces and shortens hospital stay without increasing morbidity. We recommend pneumoperitoneum after bilobectomy at the time of thoracotomy, especially if there are residual small air leaks that cannot be sealed before chest closure.

UI  - 11004042
TI  - Percutaneous tracheostomy: ciaglia blue rhino versus the basic ciaglia technique of percutaneous dilational tracheostomy.
AB  - To assess practicability and safety of the Ciaglia Blue Rhino (Cook Critical Care, Bloomington, IL)-an extensively modified technique of percutaneous dilatational tracheostomy-50 critically ill adults on long-term ventilation underwent either new Ciaglia Blue Rhino or percutaneous dilatational tracheostomy in a prospective, randomized clinical trial.

UI  - 10921718
TI  - Long-term results after video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery for first-time and recurrent spontaneous pneumothorax.
AB  - Immediate postoperative results show VATS to be a safe and reliable method in first-time and recurrent SP to obtain quick reexpansion of the lung. Long-term recurrence rates are acceptable and compare with results after open thoracotomy. Pleurodesis should be included in each procedure for adequate recurrence prevention.

UI  - 10887232
TI  - Autologous blood clot seal to prevent pneumothorax at CT-guided lung biopsy.
AB  - Plugging of biopsy tracks with ABCS, particularly after biopsy of deep lung lesions, significantly reduced the frequency of pneumothorax-particularly of large pneumothoraces-and, therefore, the need for treatment and the attendant cost.

UI  - 10780602
TI  - Is routine roentgenography needed after closed tube thoracostomy removal?
AB  - Clinically significant RHPTX/PHPTX after CT removal is infrequent. Signs not symptoms detect CT removal complications. At our institution, chest radiographs are obtained in a delayed manner from protocol and offer no benefit over clinical assessment.

UI  - 10707533
TI  - [The effectiveness of thin-section computed tomography in diagnosing bullous lesions in patients with spontaneous pneumothorax].
AB  - We investigated the effectiveness of thin-section computed tomography (CT) for the diagnosis of bullous lesions in patients with spontaneous pneumothorax. The study group consisted of 74 patients. Apical regions of the lung were scanned for lesions by thin-section CT prior to operation. The presence, number, and locations of bullous lesions were assessed. Bullous lesions were also classified into 2 groups according to their shape as demonstrated by CT findings. Operative findings confirmed that 73 of the 74 patients had bullous lesions. Of these, 33 had a single bulla and 40 had multiple bulla. Thin-section CT accurately detected the presence and location of the bullous lesions, accurately identified the number in all but 6 patients with multiple bulla (accuracy: 91.8%), and also classified them accurately by type. Precise evaluations of bullous lesions are crucial to the treatment of patients with spontaneous pneumothorax. The presence of bullous lesions, as well as their location and shape, are important factors in determining whether to operate or not. Such information also allows for a better understanding of the surgical options available. Our study demonstrated that thin-section CT of apical regions of the lung is an effective diagnostic procedure for patients with spontaneous pneumothorax.

UI  - 10655891
TI  - Video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery for spontaneous pneumothorax--a 7-year learning experience.
AB  - There is a demonstrable 'learning curve' effect on the clinical efficacy and surgical practice of video assisted thoracoscopic surgery for spontaneous pneumothorax.

UI  - 10638146
TI  - [Video-assisted thoracic surgery in the treatment of spontaneous pneumothorax].
AB  - Surgical treatment by VATS is a valid alternative to open thoracotomy in patients with PSP and will be the treatment of choice because, with increased experience of surgeons, it will yield the same results as standard operative therapy but with the advantages of the minimally invasive operation. The usefulness of VATS in patients with SSP remains to be defined.

UI  - 10634835
TI  - Randomised controlled trial of patient triggered and conventional fast rate ventilation in neonatal respiratory distress syndrome.
AB  - Patient triggered ventilation in preterm infants with respiratory distress syndrome is feasible. No significant differences, when compared with conventional fast rate ventilation in important medium and longer term outcome measures, were evident.

UI  - 10634832
TI  - International randomised controlled trial of patient triggered ventilation in neonatal respiratory distress syndrome.
AB  - There was no observed benefit from the use of PTV, with a trend towards a higher rate of pneumothorax under 28 weeks of gestation. Although PTV has a similar outcome to IMV for treatment of RDS in infants of 28 weeks or more gestation, within 72 hours of birth, it was abandoned more often. It cannot be recommended for infants of less than 28 weeks' gestation with the ventilators used in this study.

UI  - 10499073
TI  - Pulmonary lymphangioleiomyomatosis. A study of 69 patients. Groupe d'Etudes et de Recherche sur les Maladies "Orphelines" Pulmonaires (GERM"O"P).
AB  - Pulmonary lymphangioleiomyomatosis (LAM) is a rare disorder of unknown cause characterized by peribronchial, perivascular, and perilymphatic proliferation of abnormal smooth muscle cells leading to cystic lesions. The hypothesis of hormonal dependence and the effectiveness of hormonal therapy have not yet been demonstrated conclusively, and the prevalence of extrathoracic manifestations and the survival of patients with LAM are somewhat contradictory. A multicentric retrospective study was conducted in an attempt to describe better the initial features, the diagnostic procedures, the associated lesions, and, above all, the management and course of LAM in a large homogeneous series of 69 stringently selected patients, with a majority of cases diagnosed since 1990. The aim of the study, based on a review of the literature, also was to provide a comprehensive view of this uncommon disease. The clinical features were in keeping with previous studies, but we found that exertional dyspnea and pneumothorax were the most common features, and chylous involvement was less frequent. LAM was diagnosed after menopause in about 10% of cases. The onset of LAM occurred during pregnancy in 20% of cases, and a clear exacerbation of LAM was observed in 14% of cases during pregnancy. Pulmonary LAM was diagnosed on lung histopathology in 83% of cases, but renal angiomyolipoma, observed in 32% of our patients, may be a useful diagnostic criterion when associated with typical multiple cysts on chest CT scan or with chylous effusion. Chest CT scan was more informative than chest X-ray (normal in 9% of cases), and may be indicated in spontaneous pneumothorax or renal angiomyolipoma in women of childbearing age. About 40% of the patients had a normal initial spirometry, while an obstructive ventilatory defect (44%), a restrictive ventilatory defect (23%), was observed in other patients. Initial diffusing capacity for carbon monoxide was frequently decreased (82%). Hormonal therapy was administered in 57 patients, but a clear > or = 15% improvement of FEV1 was observed in only 4 evaluable patients, treated with tamoxifen and progestogens (n = 2), progestogen (n = 1), and oophorectomy (n = 1). Probably 1 of the most urgent needs for clinical research in LAM is to test the currently available hormonal treatments in the context of international multicenter prospective controlled studies. Pleurodesis was performed in 40 patients. Lung transplantation was performed in 13 patients, 7.8 +/- 5.2 years after onset of LAM, in whom the mean FEV1 was 0.57 +/- 0.15 L. After a follow-up of 2.3 +/- 2.2 years, 9 patients were alive. Mean follow-up from onset of disease to either death or closing date was 8.2 +/- 6.3 years. Overall survival was better than usually reported in LAM, and Kaplan-Meier plot showed survival probabilities of 91% after 5 years, 79% after 10 years, and 71% after 15 years of disease duration.

UI  - 10456402
TI  - Video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery does not deteriorate postoperative pulmonary gas exchange in spontaneous pneumothorax patients.
AB  - Bullectomy via VATS was less deleterious to pulmonary gas exchange. Axillary thoracotomy caused worsening of gas exchange postoperatively due to incisional pain, chest wall deformity, and peripheral atelectasis.

UI  - 10372613
TI  - Treatment of occult pneumothoraces from blunt trauma.
AB  - Observation of OPTX is not associated with an increased incidence of pneumothorax progression or respiratory distress. These pneumothoraces can be safely observed in patients with blunt trauma injury regardless of the need for positive pressure ventilation.

UI  - 10366231
TI  - Cervical root stimulation at C5/6 excites C8/T1 roots and minimizes pneumothorax risk.
AB  - Needle electrical cervical root stimulation may be performed lateral to the C5/C6 or C7/T1 spinous process interspaces. Pneumothorax has been reported following C7/T1 root stimulation. We evaluated the efficacy of a modified C5/C6 stimulation technique in exciting C8/T1 roots in 15 normal subjects and 36 patients with motor neuron disease (204 procedures). No instances of a 50% or greater amplitude decline occurred. C5/C6 interspace stimulation, therefore, may be used to excite C8/T1 roots while minimizing pneumothorax risk.

UI  - 10342512
TI  - The comet-tail artifact: an ultrasound sign ruling out pneumothorax.
AB  - Ultrasound detection of the "comet-tail artifact" at the anterior chest wall allows complete pneumothorax to be discounted.

UI  - 10088835
TI  - Prospective randomized trial of thoracostomy removal algorithms.
AB  - It is possible that patients in the no water seal group did not have sufficient time for a possible PTX to evolve, which resulted in a larger and more significant PTX requiring another CT. Although there was no difference in chest tube duration between the no water seal and water seal groups, a short trial of water seal appears to allow occult air leaks to become clinically apparent and reduces the need for another CT.

UI  - 10036890
TI  - [Changes in SpO2 during total intravenous anesthesia combined with propofol and SpO2 during one-lung anesthesia ventilation].
AB  - We retrospectively examined SpO2 during one-lung anesthesia (OLA). One hundred and fifty patients of ASA 1 or 2 for thoracoscopic surgery were anesthetized with propofol and fentanyl (n = 93) or pentazocine (n = 57) and mechanically ventilated with FIO2 = 0.6 in the lateral decubitus position. Twelve patients (8%) developed SpO2 < or = 95% in the first 20 minutes of OLA. It has been reported that hypoxemia during OLA occurs in 13-40% of patients under inhalation anesthesia with FIO2 = 1.0. Our results show the total intravenous anesthesia using propofol is useful to maintain SpO2 during OLA. SpO2 during OLA tended to fall in the patients for right side operation, with lower SpO2 during two-lung ventilation and higher body mass index (BMI). However BMI has never been reported as a predictor of hypoxemia during OLA. A gravity-dependent mechanism is considered to be more responsible for the dependent regional volume reduction during OLA in patients in the lateral decubitus position.

UI  - 9885587
TI  - Pneumothorax and dependent versus nondependent patient position after needle biopsy of the lung.
AB  - The results suggest that the puncture-site-down postbiopsy position may not affect either the incidence of postbiopsy pneumothorax or the incidence of pneumothorax that requires chest tube placement.

UI  - 9870010
TI  - Complications of dual chamber pacemaker implantation in the elderly. Pacemaker Selection in the Elderly (PASE) Investigators.
AB  - Pacemakers are frequently implanted, yet accurate prospective data on implant complications are limited. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of implant complications and are increasingly being referred for pacemaker implantation. The purpose of the present analysis was to define the incidence and possible predictors of serious complications of dual chamber permanent pacemaker implantation in the elderly. Therefore, we sought to prospectively identify the incidence and predictors of pacemaker implant complications in a large multicenter trial involving patients receiving a dual chamber pacemaker. The Pacemaker Selection in the Elderly (PASE) study was a prospective trial designed to evaluate quality of life in dual chamber pacemaker recipients age 65 years or older randomized to DDDR versus VVIR programming. In addition to being age 65 years or older, patients enrolled in this study were in normal sinus rhythm, and had standard indications for permanent pacemaker implantation. All patients received dual chamber pacemakers and were randomized to DDDR versus VVIR pacing. Pacemaker implant complications were collected on standardized forms which were completed at pacemaker implantation and during follow-up appointments. In this study of 407 patients, there were 26 complications occurring in 25 patients (6.1%). The most frequent complication was lead dislodgment which occurred in 9 patients. This was followed by pneumothorax (8 patients) and cardiac perforations (4 patients). In 18 patients (4.4%) repeat surgical procedures (including chest tubes) were required. Complications were noted prior to discharge in only 18 patients. There were no significant predictors of overall complications. Pneumothorax was more frequent in patients > or = 75 years old, and was observed only in patients with subclavian venous access. In conclusion, complications from pacemaker implantation in the elderly are seen in 6.1% of patients and 4.4% of patients require a repeat surgical procedure. Other than advanced age and lower weight predicting for pneumothorax, there are no significant clinical predictors of complications.

UI  - 9857645
TI  - [Repeated paracentesis and total parietal pleurectomy in treatment of patients with primary pneumothorax--late results].
AB  - Out of 235 patients discharged from the Department of Thoracic Surgery, Silesian Medical Academy, after treatment of primary spontaneous pneumothorax between 1981 and 1993, 232 (98.7%) answered our questionnaire and so were included in the study. Mean follow-up time was 10.4 years. No recurrence of the disease was reported by any of 79 patients who had been treated by surgical procedure/thoracotomy plus pleurectomy/, but 21 (14.3%) out of 147 treated by paracentesis reported a recurrence of pneumothorax. In 17 patients the recurrence was the first-time case, in 3 the second-time, in 1 the third-time. Out of 232 patients, 10 (4.3%) had a recurrence of pneumothorax on the opposite side. Achieving expansion of the lung, 80% of the patients reported no problems at all. Only 6 (2.6%) of the whole group stated they could no longer work in their profession because of the pneumothorax they had suffered in the past.

UI  - 9857644
TI  - [Repeated paracentesis and total pleurectomy in treatment of patients with primary pneumothorax--early results].
AB  - A group of 235 patients were treated between 1981 and 1993 for primary spontaneous pneumothorax. Immediate recovery was obtained in 150 (75%) out of 8 in whom drainage had been applied, and in a total of 79 who had been operated. Fifty of the remaining 52 patients with the first episode of pneumothorax, had repeated paracentesis with no complete lung expansion prior to operation, and 2 were referred to pleural cavity drainage. Three out of 79 operated patients, required re-thoracotomy (2 on the second day, and 1 on the eighth day following operation) because of hemothorax. In 3 patients an infection developed, thereupon a prolonged drainage of pleural cavity was used with good result.

UI  - 9847275
TI  - Tidal volume reduction for prevention of ventilator-induced lung injury in acute respiratory distress syndrome. The Multicenter Trail Group on Tidal Volume reduction in ARDS.
AB  - Because animal studies have demonstrated that mechanical ventilation at high volume and pressure can be deleterious to the lungs, limitation of airway pressure, allowing hypercapnia if necessary, is already used for ventilation of acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). Whether a systematic and more drastic reduction is necessary is debatable. A multicenter randomized study was undertaken to compare a strategy aimed at limiting the end-inspiratory plateau pressure to 25 cm H2O, using tidal volume (VT) below 10 ml/kg of body weight, versus a more conventional ventilatory approach (with regard to current practice) using VT at 10 ml/kg or above and close to normal PaCO2. Both arms used a similar level of positive end-expiratory pressure. A total of 116 patients with ARDS and no organ failure other than the lung were enrolled over 32 mo in 25 centers. The two groups were similar at inclusion. Patients in the two arms were ventilated with different VT (7.1 +/- 1.3 versus 10.3 +/- 1.7 ml/kg at Day 1, p < 0.001) and plateau pressures (25.7 +/- 5. 0 versus 31.7 +/- 6.6 cm H2O at Day 1, p < 0.001), resulting in different PaCO2 (59.5 +/- 15.0 versus 41.3 +/- 7.6 mm Hg, p < 0.001) and pH (7.28 +/- 0.09 versus 7.4 +/- 0.09, p < 0.001), but a similar level of oxygenation. The new approach did not reduce mortality at Day 60 (46.6% versus 37.9% in control subjects, p = 0.38), the duration of mechanical ventilation (23.1 +/- 20.2 versus 21.4 +/- 16. 3 d, p = 0.85), the incidence of pneumothorax (14% versus 12%, p = 0. 78), or the secondary occurrence of multiple organ failure (41% versus 41%, p = 1). We conclude that no benefit could be observed with reduced VT titrated to reach plateau pressures around 25 cm H2O compared with a more conventional approach in which normocapnia was achieved with plateau pressures already below 35 cm H2O.

UI  - 9835005
TI  - Buttressing staple lines with bovine pericardium in lung resection for bullous emphysema.
AB  - The utility of buttressing an endoscopic mechanical stapler with strips of bovine pericardium in resection of pulmonary bullous areas was evaluated by comparing the duration of air leakage in two randomized patient groups, one with and one without buttressing. The duration of air leakage was not related to bulla size in either group but showed a linear relation with the radiologic emphysema score in both groups (p < 0.001) and was shorter when the stapler had been fitted with bovine pericardium, but significantly reduced (p = 0.019) only in patients with a high emphysema score. The duration of air leakage was thus related to emphysema score, and in patients with high scores was shortened by application of bovine pericardium to the stapler.

UI  - 9718016
TI  - Active or passive chest drainage after oesophagectomy in 101 patients: a prospective randomized study.
AB  - Passive drainage did not reduce hospital stay, but was as safe and effective as the active system in draining the pleural cavity after uncomplicated oesophagectomy.

UI  - 9699104
TI  - An evaluation of intercostal nerve blockade for analgesia following renal transplantation.
AB  - In a double-blinded study we examined the effect of supplementing patient-controlled morphine analgesia with intercostal nerve blockade to identify if this improved analgesia and reduced morphine requirements following renal transplantation. Fifty patients were randomized to receive unilateral intercostal nerve block with either 0.5% bupivacaine or saline to the lower five intercostal nerves. Each block was performed on the side of surgical incision following the completion of surgery. Patients receiving bupivacaine blockade reported reduced pain scores and used less morphine in the initial 4 h following renal transplantation, but did not demonstrate a significant reduction in overall pain scores, total 24 h morphine requirements, or sedation scores. Two patients developed a pneumothorax, neither of which were clinically apparent at the time of diagnosis, and only detected by chest radiography. A chest radiograph should therefore be considered mandatory after intercostal nerve blockade.

UI  - 9681806
TI  - Thoracoscopic apical pleurectomy for persisting or recurring pneumothorax.
AB  - Regardless of its origin, the treatment of persisting or recurring spontaneous pneumothorax (SP) is classically surgical. To assess the contribution of thoracoscopy in the management of SP 100 consecutive patients with persistent or recurrent pneumothorax were treated at our unit by endoscopic procedure between 1992 and 1997 to obtain permanent pleurodesis and to treat the lung lesion responsible for the leak. There were 90 men and 10 women ranging in age from 16 to 60 years (mean age 28+/-12 years). The technique includes electrocoagulation of pleural blebs and thoracoscopic apical pleurectomy. All patients were subjected to physical examination and plain x-ray at 1 and 3 months and 1 year postoperatively. After completion of the procedure, air leaks disappeared in 90 cases, while 5 cases air leak ceased 5 to 7 days postoperatively. The remaining 5 cases were converted to an open procedure. The mean length of follow-up was 3 years. No patient required transfusion and there were no operative deaths. No recurrence of pneumothorax occurred and no major complications encountered. Video-assisted thoracoscopic pleurectomy for the treatment of pneumothorax is concluded to be that safe and efficacious. It shortens the hospital stay, requires less amount of postoperative narcotic analgesia.

UI  - 9658886
TI  - [Transthoracic needle biopsy under USG control].
AB  - In 114 patients with peripheral lung lesions transthoracic needle biopsy was performed under USG control. This method enabled to achieve positive results in more than 90% of cases. Transthoracic needle biopsy is a simple diagnostic method which allows without serious complications to establish histo-pathological diagnosis of thoracic peripheral tumors.

UI  - 9636962
TI  - Autologous blood patch pleurodesis in spontaneous pneumothorax with persistent air leak.
AB  - In a prospective study series of 167 patients with tube thoracostomy for spontaneous pneumothorax in 1993-1996, 32 patients (age range 16-79 years, mean age 45.5 years) were treated with autologous blood-patch pleurodesis for persistent air leak. In 27 (84%) of cases the air leak ceased within 72 h after the pleurodesis. The duration of air leak was significantly shorter (p < 0.01) than in simple drainage. Empyema developed in three cases, and two patients with failed pleurodesis required open thoracotomy. Minor complications, mainly fever and pleural effusion, occurred in nine patients. Neither analgesia nor sedation was required during or after pleurodesis. There was no recurrence of pneumothorax during 12-48 months of observation, whereas simple drainage was followed by recurrence in 22 patients. Blood-patch pleurodesis is a simple, effective and painless method in pneumothorax, but carries an increased risk of intrathoracic infection.

UI  - 9449726
TI  - The relation of pneumothorax and other air leaks to mortality in the acute respiratory distress syndrome.
AB  - In patients with sepsis-induced acute respiratory distress syndrome who were receiving mechanical ventilation with conventional pressures and volumes, there were no significant correlations between high ventilatory pressures or volumes and the development of pneumothorax or other air leaks. Pneumothorax or other air leaks were not associated with a significantly increased mortality rate.

UI  - 9393518
TI  - Percutaneous biliary drainage: clinical trial of analgesia with interpleural block.
AB  - Interpleural block was effective in decreasing pain and opioid requirements during and after percutaneous biliary drainage and did not compromise the cardiopulmonary status of the patient. However, the rate of pneumothorax was higher than previously reported.

UI  - 9363656
TI  - Comparison of synchronized and conventional intermittent mandatory ventilation in neonates.
AB  - Between October 1993 and April 1995, a total of 77 neonates requiring mechanical ventilation were enrolled in this study and were randomly divided into two groups. Group A consisted of 31 premature infants (mean birthweight 1.36 +/- 0.29 kg) with respiratory distress syndrome (RDS) and seven neonates (mean birthweight 3.2 +/- 0.5 kg) with meconium aspiration syndrome (MAS). Group B consisted of 31 premature infants (mean birthweight 1.31 +/- 0.3 kg) with RDS and eight neonates (mean birthweight 3.3 +/- 0.5 kg) with MAS. Infants in group A received synchronized intermittent mandatory ventilation (SIMV) and infants in group B received conventional intermittent mandatory ventilation (CIMV) therapy. In premature infants with RDS, our data showed: (i) the duration of ventilation was significantly shorter (P < 0.05) in the synchronized group (156 +/- 122 h) compared to the conventional group (242 +/- 175 h); (ii) significantly fewer (P < 0.05) patients required reintubation in the synchronized group than in the conventional group (three vs 11 patients); (iii) incidence of severe intraventricular hemorrhage (grades 3 and 4) was significantly lower (P < 0.05) in the synchronized group compared to the conventional group (one vs seven patients); (iv) incidence of bronchopulmonary dysplasia was significantly lower (P < 0.05) in the synchronized group than in the control group (one vs seven patients). In neonates with MAS, our data showed no significant difference (P < 0.05) on duration of ventilation, incidence of reintubation, incidence of pneumothorax or mortality rate between synchronized and control groups.

UI  - 9315804
TI  - Analysis of tube thoracostomy performed by pulmonologists at a teaching hospital.
AB  - Tube thoracostomy can be safely performed by pulmonologists with relatively few associated problems.

UI  - 9301441
TI  - Long-term, totally implantable central venous access ports connected to a Groshong catheter for chemotherapy of solid tumours: experience from 178 cases using a single type of device.
AB  - The aim of this study was to examine the early and late complications rate of central venous access ports connected to the Groshong catheter for long-term chemotherapy delivering. All patients suffering from a neoplastic disease, who required long-term chemotherapy and underwent insertion of implantable ports during a 21-month period (1 October 1994-30 June 1996) were prospectively studied. A single type of port was used, constructed of titanium and silicone rubber (Dome Port, Bard Inc., Salt Lake City, U.S.A), connected to an 8 F silastic Groshong catheter tubing (Bard Inc.). A team of different operators (two general surgeons, one interventional radiologist and four anaesthesiologists) was involved in inserting the port. All devices were placed in the operating room under fluoroscopic control. A central venous access form was filled in by the operator after the procedure and all ports were followed prospectively for device-related and overall complications. Data from the follow-up of these patients were entered in the form and collected in a database. Follow-up continued until the device was removed, the patient died or the study was closed. 178 devices, comprising a total of 32,089 days in situ, were placed in 175 patients. Three patients received a second device after removal of the first. Adequate follow-up was obtained in all cases (median 180 days, range 4-559). 138 devices (77.5%) were still in situ when the study was closed. Early complications included six pneumothoraxes, three arterial punctures and two revisions for port and/or catheter malfunction (overall early complications in 8 patients). Late complications included 3 cases (1.68% of devices) of catheter rupture and embolisation (0.093 episodes/1000 days of use), 2 cases (1.12% of devices) of venous thrombosis (0.062 episodes/1000 days of use), 1 case (0.56% of devices) of pocket infection (0.031 episodes/1000 days of use), and 4 cases (2.24% of devices) of port-related bacteraemias (0.124 episodes/1000 days of use). Infections were caused by coagulase-negative Staphylococcus aureus (4 cases) and Bacillus subtilis (1 case); they required port removal in 3 out of 5 cases. This study represents the largest published series of patients with totally implantable access ports connected to Groshong catheters; this device is a good option for long-term access to central veins and delivery of chemotherapeutic regimens, including continuous intravenous infusions. The low incidence of major complications related to implantation and management of these devices support increased use in oncology patients.

UI  - 9227725
TI  - Short wave diathermy for small spontaneous pneumothorax.
AB  - Although further study is necessary, these results indicate that short wave diathermy may be an alternative treatment for patients with small spontaneous pneumothoraces.

UI  - 9042641
TI  - Surgical treatment of primary spontaneous pneumothorax with video-assisted thoracic surgery.
AB  - We report the results of our experience using video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery (VATS) to treat primary spontaneous pneumothorax (PSP) from January 1992 until December 1994 in a multicentered co-operative study. A total of 132 patients (110 males and 22 females, aged 13-38 yrs, mean age 26 yrs) were treated by VATS to deal with the PSP that they presented with. A standard VATS technique was used. Apical bullae were always removed, and mechanical pleural abrasion was performed, leaving a pleural drainage tube. In two cases (1.5%), a switch to thoracotomy was necessary. In eight cases (6%), air leakage persisted for 5 days after surgery, which resolved with pleural drainage. There were eight postoperative relapses (6%), which were treated with pleural drainage (n = 4), VATS (n = 3) or axillar thoracotomy (n = 1). The average postoperative stay was 5.6 days (range 2-15 days). We conclude that video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery is a viable alternative for the treatment of primary spontaneous pneumothorax. There is, however, a high relapse rate, and in a number of cases air leakage persists in the postoperative period.

UI  - 9125236
TI  - Electrochemical treatment of lung cancer.
AB  - A pilot study of electrochemical treatment (ECT) as a therapy for 386 patients with nonsmall cell lung cancer was undertaken. There were 103 stage II cases, 89 stage IIIa cases, 122 stage IIIb cases, and 72 stage IV cases. Two ECT methods were used: For peripherally located lung cancer, platinum electrodes were inserted transcutaneously into the tumor under x-ray or CT guidance. For central type lung cancer or for those inoperable during thoracotomy, electrodes were inserted intraoperatively directly into the cancer. Voltage was 6-8 V, current was 40-100 mA, and electric charge was 100 coulombs per cm of tumor diameter. The number of electrodes was determined from the size of cancer mass, because the diameter of effective area around each electrode is approximately 3 cm. The short-term (6 months after ECT) results of the 386 lung cancer cases were: complete response (CR), 25.6% (99/386); partial response (PR), 46.4% (179/386); no change (NC), 15.3% (59/386); and progressive disease (PD), 12.7% (49/386). The total effective rate (CR + PR) was 72% (278/386). The 1, 3, and 5 year overall survival rates were 86.3% (333/386), 58.8% (227/386), and 29.5% (114/386), respectively. The main complication was traumatic pneumothorax, with an incidence rate of 14.8% (57/386). These clinical results show that ECT is simple, safe, effective, and minimally traumatic. ECT provides an alternative method for treating lung cancers that are conventionally inoperable, that are not responsive to chemotherapy or radiotherapy, or that cannot be resected after thoracotomy. Long-term survival rates suggest that ECT warrants further investigation.

UI  - 8955250
TI  - Utility of the routine chest X-ray after "over-wire" venous catheter changes.
AB  - The Seldinger technique is commonly used to change central venous access catheters in the Intensive Care Unit. These catheters are routinely being changed to prevent septic complications. Some of these changes are performed by an "over-wire" technique. To assess the utility of postprocedural chest X-rays on critically ill patients after an over-wire catheter change, we followed 68 patients after they had 80 catheter changes. This study assesses catheter position by use of a postprocedural X-ray. During the study, we found no misplaced catheters and minimum symptomatology in 80 patients. The trauma/critical care fellows performing the procedures rated them as easy in 97.5 percent of the changes. The conclusion of the study is that, if the catheter change is technically easy and the patient has no symptoms, a postprocedural X-ray is not necessary.

UI  - 8873535
TI  - Effect of patient position upon success in placing central venous catheters.
AB  - The bump position improves the likelihood of successful central venous catheter placement. No more than three needle passes ought to be attempted.

UI  - 8857906
TI  - Reduced inflammatory response in minimal invasive surgery of pneumothorax.
AB  - The thoracoscopic procedure is less invasive when performing wedge resection of apical blebs. With intracavitary management being equivalent to the conventional technique, the curtailed morbidity after thoracoscopic surgery is considered to be related to the minimal trauma associated with the access to lung tissue and the reduced handling of lung tissue.

UI  - 8781154
TI  - "Oblique path"--the optimal needle path for computed tomography-guided biopsy of small subpleural lesions.
AB  - For percutaneous biopsy of small subpleural lesions under CT guidance, the oblique path is better than the perpendicular path.

UI  - 8681654
TI  - The cost of treatment of spontaneous pneumothorax with the thoracic vent compared with conventional thoracic drainage.
AB  - 

UI  - 8827547
TI  - Improved outcomes following the introduction of surfactant to an Australian neonatal unit.
AB  - A reduced incidence of pneumothorax and neonatal death following the introduction of artificial surfactant therapy was readily demonstrable in the Australian setting.

UI  - 8696647
TI  - [Pleurodesis with the patient's own blood: the initial results in 14 cases].
AB  - Fourteen adults with spontaneous pneumothorax (SP), 9 of whom had primary SP (PSP) and 5 of whom had secondary forms (SSP), were given intrapleural infusions of self-donated blood for pleurodesis. Instillations of 50 ml were given to all except 1, who required a total volume of 120 ml. The procedure was performed in each patient's bed in all cases. With apical chest tube placement in most cases and the lung expanded, the outer tip of the tube was elevated and the patient's own blood was taken from a superficial forearm vein and instilled. Them, with the tube occluded, the patient's were rotated un bed for a period of 2 hours to distribute the blood evenly throughout the pleural cavity. Tolerance was excellent, with no pain reported by any patient. The only noteworthy complication was 1 case of infectious pleural effusion of unknown etiology which was treated by evacuation and antibiotics. In 13 (92%) patients closure of the fistula was achieved, in under 12 h in 7 (53%), in under 24 h in 3 (23%), in under 48 h in 2 (15%), and in under 72 h in the remaining 2 (15%). In 4 (28.5%) there was recurrence (2 SSP and 2 PSP patients). Over a 10 to 32 month follow-up period (mean 16 months), 10 (71.4%) patients experienced no recurrences or complications. These results allow us to speculate that blood instilled in the pleural cavity may act in 2 ways: in the short term as a blood patch that adheres to and closes the fistula in the visceral pleura, and over the longer term by creating pleural symphysis by adhesions and fibrous tissue. Our limited experience indicates that pleurodesis with self-donated blood is an easy-to-perform, painless, convenient, rapid and inexpensive procedure that is moderately effective in the short and medium term. Its main drawbacks are the lack of consensus on certain technical considerations, such as the optimum amount of blood to be instilled, the number of instillations to perform and, if multiple instillations are carried out, what the interval between them should be. Further study is needed to confirm or discount our results and to determine the place this technique may have in the clinical management of pneumothorax.

UI  - 8633968
TI  - Transaxillary minithoracotomy versus video-assisted thoracic surgery for spontaneous pneumothorax.
AB  - There were no advantages of VATS over TAMT for management of recurrent, persistent, or contralateral spontaneous pneumothorax in regard to the operating time, the amount of analgesics used on the first postoperative day, the duration of the indwelling chest tube, and the number of postoperative recurrences in patients with apical bullae.

UI  - 8810208
TI  - Efficacy and safety of unguided percutaneous fine needle aspiration cytology in peripheral lung lesions.
AB  - The efficacy and safety of unguided percutaneous fine needle aspiration cytology in peripheral lung lesions were studied in 42 patients. The diagnostic yield of unguided aspiration was 83.3%. The yield in malignant lesion was 85.7% while in benign lesion it was 78.6%. There was no false positive report. Complications seen were asymptomatic pneumothorax and blood tinged sputum in a few cases following aspiration. The procedure was well accepted by the patients. Unguided FNAC is a simple, quick, economical, safe and reliable procedure for the diagnosis of peripheral lung lesions.

UI  - 8774514
TI  - A multicenter randomized, masked comparison trial of natural versus synthetic surfactant for the treatment of respiratory distress syndrome.
AB  - Compared with Exosurf, Infasurf provided more effective therapy for RDS as assessed by significant reductions in the severity of respiratory disease and in the incidence of air leak complications.

UI  - 8948870
TI  - [Videothoracoscopy in the surgical treatment of pneumothorax: report of 46 cases].
AB  - We report our 3-years experience with video-thoracoscopy for pneumothorax. Forty-six endoscopies (34 men, 12 women; mean age 27 +/- 9 years) were performed. Patients were under general anesthesia and intubation was selective. The conventional approach was used, with 3 incisions through which the camera and endoscopic instruments were inserted. Results were good in 39 (84.7%) patients. Pneumothorax recurred in 4 (8.7%) patients during the 3 years of follow-up. Thoracotomy was performed in 3 patients, because of lack of lung expansion in 1, persistent leak in another and encapsulated empyema in the third. Mean hospital stay after surgery was 7.3 days. Video-thoracoscopy can be considered a good therapeutic alternative to thoracotomy in the surgical treatment of patients with pneumothorax.

UI  - 8767986
TI  - The management of pneumothorax with the thoracic vent versus conventional intercostal tube drainage.
AB  - The thoracic vent is a new minimally invasive device for the treatment of spontaneous and iatrogenic pneumothorax. It consists of a polyurethane catheter connected to a plastic chamber containing a one-way valve. As there is no need to connect the thoracic vent to an underwater seal device, immobilization and hospitalization can be avoided. So far the performance of the thoracic vent has been evaluated only in patients without pleural effusions and without signs of tension pneumothorax. Hence, we have performed a randomized study comparing the treatment of pneumothorax by means of the thoracic vent versus conventional intercostal tube drainage in 30 patients, including some with tension pneumothorax. 17 patients were treated with the thoracic vent, 13 with conventional intercostal tube drainage. We found no significant differences in the rate of reexpansion and rate of complications between the group treated with the thoracic vent and the group treated with intercostal tube drainage, but the patients treated with the thoracic vent needed significantly less analgesics. 70% of the patients treated with the thoracic vent were successfully managed on an outpatient basis. All patients treated with intercostal tube drainage were hospitalised; duration of inpatient-therapy was 8 +/- 6.2 days (mean +/- SD).

UI  - 8553030
TI  - [Initial clinical results with a novel implantable cardioverter-defibrillator: a prospective evaluation in 3 Swiss university hospitals].
AB  - The most important technical improvements of implantable cardioverter-defibrillators (ICD) of the latest generation comprise more sophisticated antitachycardia pacing options, stored intracardiac electrograms and biphasic shock capabilities which virtually always allow ICD implantation without thoracotomy. The present study summarizes the first clinical experience with these new devices. In 37 consecutive symptomatic (near sudden death 17, syncope 16, pre-syncope 4) patients aged 56 +/- 10 years with refractory ventricular arrhythmias (presenting arrhythmia: ventricular fibrillation 14, ventricular tachycardia 22, not documented 1), an ICD (Jewel PCD 7219, Medtronic) was implanted. Coronary artery disease was present in 21, dilated cardiomyopathy in 5, valvular heart disease in 2 and various conditions in 8 patients; the mean left ventricular ejection fraction was 43 +/- 18%. In 29 patients (78%), the ICD was inserted in a pectoral and in 8 (22%) in an abdominal position. A non-thoracotomy lead (NTL) configuration was successfully implanted in 36/37 patients (97%) (purely transvenous systems in 30, in combination with subcutaneous patch electrode in 6). Surgical complications comprised one pneumothorax, one hemorrhage and one death due to sepsis; during a mean follow-up of 5 +/- 3 months, another patient died of heart failure and 2 revisions (5.4%) for lead problems (1 connector, 1 SQ-patch) became necessary. In 23/37 patients (62%), the ICD was activated after 74 +/- 89 days post implant. 22 of these 23 patients (96%) received one or more appropriate shocks (9 +/- 22 shocks per patient). The actuarial survival was 95% at 6 months. In the present study, an ICD of the newest generation was successfully implanted without thoracotomy in > or = 97% and with purely transvenous systems in > or = 84%. Compared to older systems, this has made the implantation procedure remarkably easier and will most likely lead to a further reduction in mortality and morbidity. Despite the relatively short follow-up, the high incidence of appropriate ICD utilization underscores the high recurrence rate of arrhythmias in this population and suggests that the ICD may be very effective in preventing unnecessary rehospitalizations.

UI  - 8591624
TI  - Fibrin glue for sealing the needle track in fine-needle percutaneous lung biopsy using a coaxial system: Part II--Clinical study.
AB  - Our results indicate that fibrin glue is a safe sealing material for lung PLB and serves to decrease the incidence and, in particular, the severity of pneumothorax, especially in high-risk patients.

UI  - 7555166
TI  - AIDS-related spontaneous pneumothorax. Risk factors and treatment.
AB  - Patients at high risk of developing AIDS-related spontaneous PTX can be identified. Systemic corticosteroids may increase the risk of morbidity from AIDS-related PTX. Chemical and surgical pleurodesis may be of value in short-term treatment and in reducing the risk of recurrence.

UI  - 8530838
TI  - [Clinical experience of the combined use of polyglycolide non-woven felt with fibrin glue to prevent postoperative pulmonary fistula].
AB  - Felt prepared from polyglycolide (PGA) polymer fibers was pasted with fibrin glue for prevention of postoperative pulmonary fistula, and its effects were evaluated. The subjects were 90 patients who underwent thoracotomy and were expected to develop air leakage between March 1990 and the end of 1993. The felt sheet was simply pasted in position in 67 patients, applied and fixed by suturing in 7, and sutured and pasted in 16. The duration of air leakage in the three groups were 4.6 +/- 4.1, 3.9 +/- 4.9, and 3.2 +/- 3.8 days, respectively. According to the surgical procedure employed, the duration of air leakage was 5.0 +/- 4.0 days in 41 patients who underwent pulmonary lobectomy, 5.0 +/- 4.3 days in 5 patients who underwent segmentectomym, 2.6 +/- 3.1 days in 26 cases who underwent partial pneumonectomy, and 4.9 +/- 4.0 days in the 14 cases who underwent bulla resection. In terms of disease, the leakage time was 4.6 +/- 4.2 days in patients with emphysema, 0.6 +/- 1.2 days in those with diffuse pulmonary fibrosis, 0.7 +/- 0.9 days in those with Infectious disease, 4.8 +/- 4.2 in those with lung cancer, 1.5 +/- 1.5 days in those with benign lung tumor, and 3.8 +/- 2.7 days in those with metastatic lung tumors. The procedure had no side-effect on liver or kidney function. No infection was observed even after decortication for empyema. The use of felt prevented excessive shrinking of the lung due to over-suturing. Therefore, intraoperative application of a PGA felt sheet was considered to be an effective method for prevention of pulmonary fistula.

UI  - 7573876
TI  - Paravertebral blockade. Failure rate and complications.
AB  - The failure rate and complications were studied prospectively in 367 paediatric and adult patients who had received a thoracic or lumbar paravertebral block. The overall failure rate was 10.1%; adults 10.7%; children 6.2%. The frequency of complications were: hypotension: 4.6%; vascular puncture: 3.8%; pleural puncture: 1.1%; pneumothorax: 0.5%. Since these results are similar to those found with alternative methods, e.g. epidural, intrapleural and intercostal blocks, paravertebral block can be recommended as an effective, safe technique for unilateral analgesia in both adults and children.

UI  - 7634863
TI  - Spontaneous pneumothorax. Comparison of thoracic drainage vs immediate or delayed needle aspiration.
AB  - In the first part of this study, 61 patients admitted for the first episode or the first recurrence of a spontaneous pneumothorax (SP) were randomly treated with thoracic drainage (TD; 28 patients) or with simple needle aspiration (NA; 33 patients). Success rate of therapy was significantly higher with TD than with NA (93%, CI 84 to 100 vs 67%, CI 51 to 83; p = 0.01). Hospital stay was similar between the two groups (7 +/- 4.6 vs 7 +/- 5.6 days), mainly because NA was delayed by 72 h in 26 patients. Recurrence rates at 3 months were 29% (CI 11 to 47%) after TD, and 14% (CI 0 to 29%) after NA (p > 0.20, NS). In the second part of the study, an additional population of 35 patients was treated by immediate NA, with a success rate of 68.5% (CI 53.5 to 83.5%), and a recurrence rate at 3 months of 30% (CI 10 to 50%). Taken together, our results indicate that NA may be proposed as a first-line treatment of SP, with a successful result in two thirds of patients and recurrence in one fifth of patients. In patients who do not heal with NA, a combined risk of TD failure and short-term recurrence of 50% may be an incentive for undelayed surgical procedures.

UI  - 7785631
TI  - CT-guided automated needle biopsy of the chest.
AB  - CT-guided transthoracic needle biopsy of the chest done with an automated biopsy system is safe, with a pneumothorax rate comparable to that of skinny needle aspiration. An overall accurate tissue diagnosis was made in 26 (81%) of 32 patients. Biopsies in 12 (80%) of 15 patients without carcinoma were diagnostic, which compares favorably with the reported accuracy of skinny needle aspiration.

UI  - 7796236
TI  - Synchronous intermittent mandatory ventilation modes compared with patient triggered ventilation during weaning.
AB  - The efficacy of combining rate and pressure reduction during weaning by synchronous intermittent mandatory ventilation (SIMV) were compared with weaning by patient triggered ventilation (PTV) (pressure reduction alone) in two randomised trials. Regardless of ventilation mode, pressure was reduced to the same level according to the size of the infant. In the first trial, the SIMV rate was also reduced progressively to a minimum of 20 breaths/minute, and in the second to five breaths/minute. Forty premature infants aged 15 days of age or less were randomly allocated into each trial. No significant differences were found in the first trial between ventilation modes in either the duration of weaning or the number of infants in whom weaning failed. In the second trial, the duration of weaning was shorter by PTV than by SIMV (median 24 hours, range 7-432 v 50 hours, range 12-500; p < 0.05); weaning failed in two infants in the PTV group and in five in the SIMV group. It is concluded that weaning by a combination of pressure and rate reduction, such as can be achieved during SIMV, offers no significant advantage over pressure reduction alone.

UI  - 7499013
TI  - Uncomplicated central vein catheterization of high risk patients with real time ultrasound guidance.
AB  - Internal jugular vein cannulation has become a routine and clinically important aspect of medical care of critically ill patients. The landmark guided technique usually affords rapid and easy vascular access, but is not always successful and may be complicated by arterial puncture, hematoma, or pneumothorax. Some categories of patients, in particular patients with no external landmarks and patients with coagulopathies, appear to be at an increased risk of complications. We report the experience of internal jugular vein cannulation by a single operator with the external landmark technique in 10 patients and with ultrasound guidance in 31 patients, including 12 high risk patients. These patients had severe coagulopathies due to hepatic failure, HELLP syndrome, excess of anticoagulation treatment, or they had no external anatomic landmarks because of anasarca or obesity, were unable to maintain the horizontal position, or were external landmark catheterization failures. With the availability of the ultrasound device, success and complication rates improved markedly, suggesting that the ultrasound technique is easy to learn and rapidly produces an improvement over the external landmark method. In particular the 13 cannulations performed in 12 high risk patients were all successful at the first attempt, with no complications. In the overall population successful cannulations improved from 80% to 100%, first attempt success from 20% to 87% and carotid punctures decreased from 33% to 3.2%. Our results confirm that ultrasound guided cannulation of the internal jugular vein allows safer operation in high risk patients or when access problems are anticipated.

UI  - 7845489
TI  - [Diagnosis of pneumothorax not improved by additional roentgen pictures of the thorax in the expiration phase].
AB  - Expiratory chest roentgenograms are not indicated as a routine investigation for patients in whom pneumothorax is suspected.

UI  - 8702200
TI  - Video-assisted thoracoscopic pleurectomy in the treatment of recurrent spontaneous pneumothorax.
AB  - Parietal pleurectomy is the most effective method of preventing a recurrence of spontaneous pneumothorax. Until recently, however, it has required thoracotomy which is associated with significant morbidity. The advent of video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery (VATS) has offered a less traumatizing method of performing parietal pleurectomy, but experience in this operation is limited. In this study we compared the operative results of our first twelve patients treated using VATS (VATS-group) with twelve consecutive patients operated on via thoracotomy (T-group) before we started using VATS. The groups were comparable in terms of age, sex ratio and the length of preoperative pleural drainage. In the VATS-group peroperative blood loss was markedly less, but the mean operative time was 16 min longer than in the T-group. There was practically no difference in the number of opioid dosages given postoperatively between the groups, but the hospital stay was approximately three days shorter in the VATS-group than in the T-group. Inability to work lasted two weeks longer in the T-group than in the VATS-group. In the T-group there were no recurrences of pneumothorax, but in the VATS-group pneumothorax recurred in two patients. They were both treated using a Roeder loop to excise bullae. One patient was reoperated via thoracotomy and another was treated by pleural suction. The initial Finnish experience of VATS-pleurectomy shows that parietal pleurectomy can be performed safely with less morbidity in the treatment of recurrent spontaneous pneumothorax. However, recurrences in the VATS-group underlines the proper selection of technical methods when using this method of treatment.

UI  - 7978020
TI  - Computed tomography in the diagnosis of blunt thoracic injury.
AB  - Although CXR is less sensitive in detecting parenchymal and pleural injuries than CT, the majority of the injuries identified by CT alone are minor and require no treatment. CXR remains the primary modality for diagnostic evaluation of blunt thoracic trauma.

UI  - 7952488
TI  - A simplified thoracoscopic technique in performing pleurectomy for spontaneous and recurrent pneumothorax.
AB  - 

UI  - 7698963
TI  - Improved technique for pleural drain insertion during cardiovascular surgery.
AB  - We describe an improved technique for pleural drain insertion during cardiovascular procedures performed through a median sternotomy. Benefits of this technique include less patient discomfort, optimal drain geometry, and reduced risk of pneumothorax on drain removal.

UI  - 7755720
TI  - Simple aspiration versus intercostal tube drainage for spontaneous pneumothorax in patients with normal lungs. British Thoracic Society Research Committee.
AB  - 

UI  - 7952457
TI  - Randomized study of algorithms for discontinuing tube thoracostomy drainage.
AB  - Both suction and water-seal methods for chest tube removal are effective and have similar incidences of recurrent pneumothorax. The use of the suction algorithm significantly decreased both chest tube duration and the time taken for chest tube removal. In patients hospitalized for isolated pneumo- or hemothorax, the use of the suction algorithm potentially could lead to shorter length of stay.

UI  - 7774410
TI  - [Video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery for chest disease].
AB  - Video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery was applied in a total of 20 patients, since Dec. 1992. There were 16 man and 4 woman whose ages ranged from 20 to 65 years. Three patient had a wedge resection for lung tumors, one a lobectomy for tracheaectasy, eleven with recurrent spontaneous pneumothorax were successfully treated, Pleural tumors (n = 1), pulmonary cyst (n = 1), Three biopsy of lung. The advantages of this for patients include cosmetic considerations, a shorter operation period, low pain, earlier postoperation mobilization.

UI  - 7774409
TI  - [Occlusion with interrupted titanium clips for ruptured bullae under video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery].
AB  - Spontaneous pneumothorax is a common disease and as many as 20% of these patients should be operated because of a recurrent pneumothorax, persistent air leak, or failure to completely reexpand the lung. From January 1993 until March 1994, on the basis of experiment, we performed video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery (VATS) intervention and talc pleurodesis on 8 patients with spontaneous pneumothorax caused by ruptured bullae, and designed a new procedure of occluding the bullae with interruptured titanium clips. This procedure has some advantages of complete occlusion of lung tissue at the base of the bulla, minimal loss of lung tissue, effectively preventing leakage and recurrent pneumothoraces, and enough capacity of anti-tension while the lung expands. Also Authors have advocated giving a negative pressure suction to opsilateral lumen of the Carlen's tube interbation to visualize adequately the intrathoracic structures, while selective lung ventilation is performed. This method keeps hemodynamic stability and is performed more easily and safely than that of positive pressure insufflation is done. Postoperatively, complete lung expansion was obtained in all patients. There were no perioperative complications related to VATS, and no recurrences to date. These early results with thoracoscopic management of spontaneous pneumothorax caused by ruptured bullae have encouraging.

UI  - 7945061
TI  - Video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery for primary spontaneous pneumothorax.
AB  - Video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery (VATS) has been suggested as the most appropriate choice for spontaneous pneumothorax. Thirty-two patients (30 males, two females, age range from 16 to 42) with primary spontaneous pneumothorax (PSP) are reported. All had mechanical pleurodesis with Marlex mesh. Blebs or bullae could be identified in 24 patients (75%). All bullae over 2 cm were either excised (11 patients) or ligated (five patients). The median operating time was 45 min. There was minimal postoperative discomfort and the median postoperative hospital stay was 4 days. There was one minor wound infection and one recurrence (mean follow up of 11 months). It is concluded that VATS is a quick, safe and effective approach for the treatment of PSP. Long-term results will better define its true merit in thoracic surgery.

UI  - 7750416
TI  - [Clinical application of thoracoscopic surgery: a report of 19 cases].
AB  - Nineteen cases (14 males and 5 females) had been operated with thoracoscopic surgery. Ten cases of spontaneous pneumothorax and 1 spontaneous hemopneumothorax had been underwent thoracoscopic bullous or bleb resections by Endo-GIA 30 or 60. Four cases of plural effusion including primary and secondary malignancies were performed to be pleurodesis by talc sclerosis. Among 4 cases of lung mass, 3 were operated by wedge resection. Lobectomy was performed by VATS in one case with primary lung cancer (T1N0). VATS were satisfactory by using the 3 small incisions giving the advantage of rapid and complete recovery without any obvious complications. Even no any secondary pneumonia. So far the VATS is not fully accepted in China due to the cost of the disposable instruments.

UI  - 7750415
TI  - [Management of pleural adhesion in the video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery].
AB  - This article describes the pleural adhesion managements in the video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery (VATS). We have operated the VATS successfully and developed a new technique for management of diffuse cellulose symphysis. We used this technique in 3 patients for treatment of lung diseases. No death and no complications occurred. Comparing with control group, the chest tube drainage time and hospital stay are not significant difference.

UI  - 7750414
TI  - [Thoracoscopy for the treatment of spontaneous pneumothorax].
AB  - Video-assisted thoracoscopy has used for lots of thoracic disorders. Spontaneous pneumothorax may be ideally suited for thoracoscopic management. Stapling of apical blebs and pleurodesis can now be performed thoracoscopically. We compared our results with thoracoscopic management of spontaneous pneumothorax in 12 patients (group I) with a group of 8 patients (group II) previously subjected to lateral thoracotomy. Operative time and hospital stay were less in group I (P < 0.05), as the use of parenteral narcotics after 24 hours (P < 0.05). There have been no recurrences to date in group I. Video-assisted thoracoscopic management is safe and offers the benefits of shorter hospital stays and less pain.

UI  - 7750411
TI  - [The clinical practice of video-assisted thoracic surgery (VATS)].
AB  - From November 1992 to March 1994, thirty five patients were performed using VATS in our hospital. The procedures included blebectomy with pleurodesis 14 cases; wedge resection 10 cases; malignant pleural effusion, pleural biopsy and pleurodesis 4 cases; pleural biopsy 3 cases; lung tumor biopsy 2 cases; lung biopsy 2 cases. Converted into thoracotomy 2 cases because of the tumors could not be resected thoracoscopically. No death and severe complication. The procedures were successful for diagnosis and treatment in our series. Compared with standard thoracotomy, the operative trauma, postoperative pain, drainage volume, tube time, postoperative hospitalization were remarkably less in this group (P < 0.05).

UI  - 8067834
TI  - Video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery versus thoracotomy for spontaneous pneumothorax.
AB  - In a prospective comparison, 60 patients suffering from complicated spontaneous pneumothorax were randomly allocated to receive treatment by a video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery (VATS) technique or by thoracotomy. Thirty patients underwent bullectomy and apical pleurectomy by VATS performed through three 2-cm incisions (group V) and 30 patients underwent a similar surgical procedure through a posterolateral thoracotomy (group T). The median operating time was significantly longer in group V (45 versus 37.5 minutes; p < 0.05), but the postoperative analgesic requirement and hospital stay were less than those in group T. On the third postoperative day, the reductions in the forced expiratory volume in 1 second and forced vital capacity were significantly lower in group V than in group T (p < 0.05 and p < 0.01, respectively). Initial treatment of the spontaneous pneumothorax was effective in 27 patients (90%) in group V and in 29 patients (97%) in group T. There have been two late recurrences in group V and one in group T at a median follow-up of 15.1 months and 16.3 months, respectively. Within the study group, 30 consecutive patients presented with primary spontaneous pneumothorax. In this subgroup there was no significant difference in the operating time between VATS and thoracotomy, but postoperative pain, hospital stay, and pulmonary dysfunction were all less for those undergoing VATS. All treatment failures were in the subgroup of 30 consecutive patients who presented with secondary spontaneous pneumothorax, and the hospital stay in this group was prolonged by the use of VATS. We conclude from our findings that VATS is superior to thoracotomy in the treatment of primary spontaneous pneumothorax.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

UI  - 7952836
TI  - [Treatment of spontaneous pneumothorax in patients over 70 years of age].
AB  - Forty-eight patients over the age of 70 with spontaneous pneumothorax (SP) are analyzed. The severity of the clinical picture is conditioned by the presence of earlier lung lesions, particularly related to emphysema, and by the degree of respiratory failure prior to SP. Treatment guidelines are listed. Pleural drainage/aspiration, applied in all cases, was of no avail in 69%. Tetracycline was injected into the pleural space of 23 patients, with failure recorded in 35%. Talc was applied by thoroscopy in 5 patients, to no avail. Video-assisted endoscopic surgery was carried out in 4 patients, with good results in 3. Surgery with access by lateral thoracotomy was carried out in 20 patients, with a single failure that was explained by the patient's condition.

UI  - 7807755
TI  - [Outpatient drainage treatment for simple spontaneous pneumothorax].
AB  - Spontaneous pneumothorax has been managed on an outpatient basis by intercostal tube drainage and a portable flutter valve device (pneumothorax set). In a series of 111 selected patients, from 14 to 75 years of age, who had no complaints such as dyspnea, had neither tension-nor hemo-pneumothorax, and could promptly return to hospital in an emergency, intercostal tube insertion and continuous negative pressure drainage were instituted at the outpatient department. After approximately one hour of suction, if an air leak ceased and the lung was re-expanded, the patient was allowed to return home with a pneumothorax set connected to the chest tube. But, if an air leak persisted, they were admitted to hospital. The outpatients were followed every 2 or 3 days thereafter, and if their course was uneventful, the chest tube was removed a week later. If the onset of lung recollapse was seen at outpatient check up, hospitalization was required. Outpatient treatment was successful in 81 cases (72.9%) of the series. However, 14 patients were hospitalized because of persistent air leak at the outpatient room, and 5 were admitted because of wound pain, re-expansion edema or other reasons. During the ambulatory course, 11 were admitted to hospital with recollapse of the lung. Bacterial cultures of drain tips were positive in 22.6% of 75 examined cases, which was a higher percentage than that associated with inpatient drainage. Wound infection with St. aureus occurred in one case after removal of the drain.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

UI  - 7774300
TI  - Spontaneous pneumothorax. Long-term results with tetracycline pleurodesis.
AB  - The aim of this prospective study was to determine the rate of recurrence for spontaneous pneumothorax (SP) after tetracycline pleurodesis (TCP), using that of observation, tube thoracostomy alone, and thoracotomy as references. From 1985 to the end of 1991, 78 patients were treated with tetracycline pleurodesis and 135 patients served as control subjects. Pleurodesis was induced by instillation of tetracycline and ascorbic acid through the pleural drain. The indication was any SP treated with tube thoracostomy, without active pulmonary infection. Follow-up period was from 13 to 95 months (mean, 45 months); follow-up rate was 94 percent. Post-therapy surgery was necessary for eight patients in whom pleurodesis failed due to presence of a persistent air leak. The ipsilateral recurrence rate of patients treated with TCP was 9 percent (6/66) and recurrence time ranged from 2 days to 9 months. The recurrence rate for patients treated with observation was 36 percent, 35 percent for those having chest tube alone, and none for those undergoing surgery. No death occurred as a direct result of this procedure and all patients could be released from the hospital. Eleven subjects died during the follow-up period; the mean follow-up until death was 37 months (range, 2 to 87 months). Five deaths were due to respiratory causes and six were due to extrapulmonary causes. Tetracycline pleurodesis has been shown to be a good alternative for the prevention of recurrence of SP. Its recurrence rate is lower than that of tube drainage but higher than that of surgical treatment.

UI  - 8175327
TI  - Effect of surfactant replacement therapy on the outcome of premature infants with respiratory distress syndrome.
AB  - Lung surfactant replacement has been tested clinically in recent years. In this study the outcome of 31 premature infants with moderate to severe neonatal respiratory distress syndrome (RDS) treated with surfactant was compared to that of 74 prematures with RDS treated conventionally by positive pressure ventilation and supportive care. The groups were well matched for gestational age, birthweight, sex, and Apgar scores at 1 and 5 min. Surfactant treatment resulted in a significant decrease in mortality--from 36.6% in the untreated group to 12.9% in the surfactant-treated group (P < 0.04). This improvement in survival was seen also in prematures with a birthweight < 1,000 g; in the untreated group mortality was 57.6% compared to 23.5% in the treated group (P < 0.05). The incidence of pneumothorax was lower in the treated group--42% vs. 13% (P < 0.01). Surfactant treatment resulted in a trend of more survivors without bronchopulmonary dysplasia or intraventricular hemorrhage, even though surfactant therapy did not change the incidence of either.

UI  - 8129596
TI  - Endoscopic transthoracic sympathectomy in the treatment of primary hyperhidrosis. A review of 290 sympathectomies.
AB  - Endoscopic transthoracic sympathectomy is an effective form of treatment for palmar primary hyperhidrosis, is associated with a low morbidity, and can be performed as an ambulatory procedure.

UI  - 8230337
TI  - Tube thoracostomy for occult pneumothorax: a prospective randomized study of its use.
AB  - Occult pneumothorax is defined as a pneumothorax that is detected by abdominal computed tomographic (CT) scanning, but not routine supine screening chest roentgenograms. Forty trauma patients with occult pneumothorax were prospectively randomized to management with tube thoracostomy (n = 19) or observation (n = 21) without regard to the possible need for positive pressure ventilation, to test the hypothesis that tube thoracostomy is unnecessary in this entity. Eight of the 21 patients observed had progression of their pneumothoraces on positive pressure ventilation, with three developing tension pneumothorax. None of the patients with tube thoracostomy suffered major complications as a result of the procedure. Hospital and ICU lengths of stay were not increased by tube thoracostomy. Patients with occult pneumothorax who require positive pressure ventilation should undergo tube thoracostomy.

UI  - 8117635
TI  - Plasma concentrations and hemodynamic changes after repeated interpleural injections of bupivacaine-epinephrine.
AB  - Repeated interpleural bolus injections of 20 ml 0.5% bupivacaine-epinephrine at 8-hour intervals are safe regarding plasma concentrations of bupivacaine. Small but statistically significant hemodynamic changes can be noticed, probably the result of beta- adrenergic stimulation by epinephrine.

UI  - 8410519
TI  - Prognostic implications of age at detection of air leak in very low birth weight infants requiring ventilatory support.
AB  - Air leak in newborn infants requiring mechanical ventilation is associated with increased risks of death or future morbidity, but the magnitude of these risks changes with postnatal age at the time of diagnosis of the air leak. Failure to consider the age at which the air leak is detected may miss changes in its prognostic implications and may partly explain inconsistent results in previous studies.

UI  - 8379780
TI  - Thoracoscopic surgery: the Belgian experience.
AB  - Despite the already wide experience with video-assisted techniques in laparoscopic surgery, video-assisted thoracic surgery only recently came to be developed. This is clearly seen in a survey reflecting the experience among Belgian surgeons. A majority of the surgeons (63%) had limited experience (1 to 5 interventions), and only 28.5% had fairly considerable (between 11 and 20 interventions) or considerable (more than 20 interventions) experience. The majority of interventions performed were the treatment of pneumothorax, lung biopsies, wedge resections, and intrathoracic staging procedures, accounting for 209 (70%) of the 296 interventions collected in this survey. The remaining interventions display a wide variety of different thoracic procedures including lobectomy (4) and esophagectomy (20) for carcinoma. The overall technical success rate was 91% in this survey. Our own experience with 71 interventions or attempts reflects the same evolution with an overall technical success rate in 85% (60 patients). Pneumothorax was the most frequently performed intervention (35 patients), with a technical success rate of 94.5% (32 patients). Recurrences requiring further treatment occurred in 5 of the 32 patients (14.3%). All recurrences occurred before endostaplers were available, after which there were no failures in 12 consecutive cases. Other procedures successfully performed were lung biopsy/wedge resection (6), lung cancer staging procedures (3), lobectomy (1), hemothorax (3), chest wall neurinoma (2), sympathectomy (5), dorsal mediastinal neurinoma (1), thymectomy (1), esophagectomy (3), benign esophageal tumor enucleation (2), and Belsey Mark IV antireflux procedure (1). Furthermore, special emphasis was given to the development of video-assisted mediastinoscopy, which greatly facilitates teaching and interpreting this operation. Endoscopic myotomy using endostaplers was performed in 2 patients with Zenker's diverticulum. From our experience, however, it becomes clear that thoracoscopic approaches do not always result in a distinct benefit for the patient, as these procedures are more time consuming and usually require one-lung ventilation (probably the cause of the only fatal outcome in this series: a lung biopsy in an 85-year-old patient). In conclusion, video-assisted thoracic and thoracoscopic surgery is a new surgical modality offering new perspectives. However, careful patient selection and the same expertise as in open procedures are essential in determining the final outcome of each procedure.

UI  - 8309737
TI  - The effects of bedside pulmonary mechanics testing during infant mechanical ventilation: a retrospective analysis.
AB  - We examined the effects of regular bedside testing of pulmonary mechanics (PM) on the outcome of 468 acutely ill, mechanically ventilated neonates. During the first of two 18-month study periods, 217 infants were mechanically ventilated without the assistance of PM measurements. During the second 18-month period, 251 infants were ventilated with the assistance of at least daily PM measurements. Using data obtained from the PM tests, we adjusted the infants' ventilators to maintain tidal volume, inspiratory time, and pressure-volume loops within predetermined limits. With the exception of the PM measurements, given the limitations of retrospective analyses, both groups of infants received identical medical and nursing care. The infants ventilated with the assistance of PM testing developed fewer pneumothoraces (4.0%; 10/251) vs. no PM testing, 10.1% (22/217); P < 0.05 by Chi-square analysis]. Infants weighing less than 1,500 g ventilated with the assistance of PM measurements had less intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH) overall, most notably, less grades I and II IVH (total IVH-PM testing, 39.1% vs. no PM testing, 65.7%; P < 0.01; Grades I-II IVH-PM testing, 30.4% vs. no PM testing, 54.9%; P < 0.01). IVH incidence was decreased independent of pneumothorax occurrence. Survival rates, incidences of bronchopulmonary dysplasia, and durations of mechanical ventilation and hospitalization were similar. This retrospective analysis suggests that PM testing during infant mechanical ventilation reduces common acute ventilator-associated complications.

UI  - 8215564
TI  - Multicentre randomised trial comparing high and low dose surfactant regimens for the treatment of respiratory distress syndrome (the Curosurf 4 trial).
AB  - A randomised trial was conducted in 82 centres using the porcine surfactant extract, Curosurf, to compare two regimens of multiple doses to treat infants with respiratory distress syndrome and arterial to alveolar oxygen tension ratio < 0.22. Infants were randomly allocated to a low dosage group (100 mg/kg initially, with two further doses at 12 and 24 hours to a maximum cumulative total of 300 mg/kg; n = 1069) or a high dosage group (200 mg/kg initially with up to four further doses of 100 mg/kg to a maximum cumulative total of 600 mg/kg; n = 1099). There was no difference between those allocated low and high dosage in the rates of death or oxygen dependency at 28 days (51.1% v 50.8%; difference -0.3%, 95% confidence interval (CI) -4.6% to 3.9%), death before discharge (25.0% v 23.5%; difference -1.5%, 95% CI -5.1% to 2.2%), and death or oxygen dependency at the expected date of delivery (32.2% v 31.0%; difference -1.2%, 95% CI -5.2% to 2.7%). For 14 predefined secondary measures of clinical outcome there were no significant differences between the groups but the comparison of duration of supplemental oxygen > 40% did attain significance; 48.4% of babies in the low dose group needed > 40% oxygen after three days compared with 42.6% of those in the high dose group. The total amount of surfactant administered in the low dose regimen (mean 242 mg phospholipid/kg) was probably enough to replace the entire pulmonary surfactant pool. Adopting the low dose regimen would lead to considerable cost savings, with no clinically significant loss in efficacy.

UI  - 8497648
TI  - Tangential fluoroscopic guidance of the anesthetizing needle during transthoracic needle lung biopsy: a randomized controlled clinical trial.
AB  - The effectiveness of tangential fluoroscopic guidance of the anesthetizing needle to avoid transgression of the pleura and therefore lower pneumothorax and chest tube insertion rates after transthoracic needle lung biopsy (TNB) was investigated. Tangential guidance was used in 41 patients (group A) and was not used in 51 (group B). The pneumothorax rate was 39% (16 of 41) for group A and 31% (16 of 51) for group B. The chest tube insertion rate was 12% (five of 41) for group A and 4% (two of 51) for group B. None of the differences in rates were significant. Use of this technique does not lower pneumothorax or chest tube insertion rates in patients undergoing TNB.

UI  - 8463913
TI  - Randomized study of high-frequency oscillatory ventilation in infants with severe respiratory distress syndrome. HiFO Study Group.
AB  - We conducted a multicenter, prospective, noncrossover, randomized study to determine whether high-frequency oscillatory ventilation (HFOV) would decrease the development or progression of air leak syndrome in infants with severe respiratory distress syndrome. Air leak syndrome was defined as pulmonary interstitial emphysema or gross air leak such as pneumothorax. Infants were eligible for study entry if they were less than 48 hours of age and had severe respiratory distress syndrome, defined by peak inspiratory pressure or the presence of air leak syndrome. Infants who weighed > or = 0.5 kg at birth were randomly assigned to receive either conventional ventilation (CV) or HFOV. HFOV was provided by a ventilator that operated at 15 Hz, with a 1:2 inspiratory/expiratory ratio and no background tidal breaths. Severity of pulmonary interstitial emphysema was scored independently by two neonatologists unaware of the infants' ventilatory group. Gross air leak severity was scored according to the number of chest tubes required and duration of air leak. Eighty-six infants received HFOV; 90 received CV. During the first 24 hours of the study, patients in the HFOV group received significantly higher mean airway pressure and lower inspired oxygen concentration, had significantly lower arterial carbon dioxide tension, and had a higher ratio of arterial to alveolar oxygen tension. When the HFOV and CV groups were compared with control for birth weight strata, study site, and inborn versus outborn status, HFOV significantly reduced the development of air leak syndrome in those patients who entered the study without the syndrome. We conclude that HFOV, when the strategy employed in this study is used, provides effective ventilation, improves oxygenation, and significantly reduces the development of air leak syndrome in infants with severe respiratory distress syndrome.

UI  - 8447205
TI  - Interpleural bupivacaine for analgesia during chest drainage treatment for pneumothorax. A randomized double-blind study.
AB  - The ability of interpleural analgesia to reduce the pain caused by an indwelling chest drain was evaluated in 22 patients treated for spontaneous pneumothorax. Intermittent 8-hourly bolus injections of 20 ml bupivacaine 0.5% with epinephrine were compared with placebo in a randomized double-blind fashion. Visual analogue pain scale (VAS) scores were registered after the 1st, 2nd, 4th, 7th and 10th injections. The scores were significantly lower in the bupivacaine group at 5, 15, 30 and 60 min after the first injection. No significant differences in pain scores were found after 4 or 8 h. Pain scores in the bupivacaine group were also reduced after the 2nd, 4th, 7th and 10th injections, but compared with placebo the differences were significant only after the 2nd and 7th injections. Parenteral morphine consumption was not significantly lower in the bupivacaine group. Arterial blood gases were unaffected by the treatment in both groups. It is concluded that interpleural analgesia using bupivacaine given as bolus injections at 8-h intervals significantly reduces the pain caused by a chest drain within 5 min of injection, but the duration of pain relief is less than 4 h.

UI  - 8284524
TI  - Percutaneous transthoracic fine-needle lung biopsy with 3 different needles. A retrospective study of results and complications in 224 patients.
AB  - During 1986-1990, 307 percutaneous transthoracic fine-needle biopsies (PTNB) were performed on 224 patients (mean age 63 years, range 27-83) with three types of needles (Nordenstrm, Vacu-Cut and Franzn). The overall sensitivity regarding malignant disease in central and peripheral pulmonary lesions was 67.0%. In 71 patients with suspected malignancy and a negative PTNB, the examination was repeated and the sensitivity was increased to 79.5%. Each needle had the following sensitivity: Nordenstrm 67.4%, Vacu-Cut 75.7%, Franzn 75.9%. The overall pneumothorax frequency was 24.7%, being highest with the Nordenstrm needle. Hemoptysis was seen in 5 examinations. In conclusion, the Franzn and Vacu-Cut needles have a significantly higher sensitivity and a lower complication frequency compared to the Nordenstrm needle.

UI  - 1509068
TI  - Pneumothorax after lung biopsy: prevention with transpleural placement of compressed collagen foam plugs.
AB  - The effectiveness of pleural sealing with a compressed collagen foam plug in preventing the development of pneumothorax was evaluated in a prospective, comparative study of 50 patients undergoing transthoracic needle biopsies. The 4-cm-long plug was deposited through the thin-walled guidance needle at the end of the procedure in a position where it would cross both the visceral and the parietal pleura. The prevalence of postbiopsy pneumothorax was 28% (seven of 25 patients) in the control group and 8% (two of 25 patients) in the plug group. In each study group, two patients with pneumothoraces required chest tubes. Although further experience is necessary, the authors conclude that transpleural collagen foam plug placement may be an effective supplement for transthoracic needle biopsies.

UI  - 1391262
TI  - Factors influencing morbidity and mortality in infants with severe respiratory distress syndrome treated with single or multiple doses of a natural porcine surfactant.
AB  - In an international multicenter trial infants with clinical and radiological signs of severe RDS (age 2-15 h, birthweight 700-2,000 g, mechanical ventilation, FiO2 greater than or equal to 0.6, no complicating disease) were randomized to receive either a single dose (n = 176) or up to three subsequent doses (n = 167) of a natural porcine surfactant (Curosurf). Using a logistic regression model, the effects of therapy, birthweight, sex, hospital and other clinical factors on survival and various outcome parameters were evaluated. Mortality (13 vs. 21%, p less than 0.05) and the incidence of pneumothorax (9 vs. 18%, p less than 0.01) were significantly lower in the multiple-dose group. Low birthweight, hospital allocation, low Apgar score and initial disease severity were associated with an increased mortality. Low birthweight, hypothermia (admission temperature less than 36 degrees C) and acidosis (pH less than 7.25) prior to surfactant treatment could be identified as risk factors for the development of intracranial hemorrhage.

UI  - 1306433
TI  - [Complications of cholecystectomy by laparoscopic approach. Apropos of 6512 cases].
AB  - 6,512 laparoscopic cholecystectomies have been performed by 141 surgeons. The lithiasis was uncomplicated in 80% of cases. Conversion from laparoscopy to laparotomy was necessary in 350 cases (5.37%), for technical problems (22 cases), complications (87 cases) or surgical difficulties (241 cases): 107 cholecystitis, 68 adhesions, 14 difficulties in finding the cystic duct and 25 common bile duct stones were the principle surgical difficulties. Among the 304 complications, we have observed 35 general and 251 local complications: 58 haemorrhages, 12 common bile duct lesions (10 cases of iatrogenic trauma and 2 accidental ligations), 4 cystic duct problems and 3 cases of intestinal trauma were the principle per-laparoscopic complications. Among the 164 post-laparoscopies cholecystectomy's complications, we have observed 50 biliary fistulae with 32 requiring further surgery (damage to the common bile duct in 14 cases), 3 common bile duct strictures, 20 haemorrhages (7 requiring further surgery), 31 deep or sub-phrenic abscesses (16 requiring further surgery) and 2 peritonitis after intestinal trauma. We have had 7 deaths (0.10%). Prognostic factors are: 1) The degree of surgeon's experience; the first 50 laparoscopies cholecystectomies performed are more likely to require further surgery (P < 0.05). 2) Cholecystitis with an significantly higher rate of conversion to laparotomy (P < 0.001) and morbidity (P < 0.01). For an experienced surgeon the biliary morbidity is near to that observed in classical cholecystectomy.

UI  - 1924776
TI  - Effect of patient positioning after needle aspiration lung biopsy.
AB  - Fifty-five patients who underwent fluoroscopically guided needle aspiration lung biopsy were randomly assigned to one of two postbiopsy treatment groups: Patients were placed recumbent with puncture site either down (n = 36) or up (n = 19) for at least 1 hour. No significant difference in pneumothorax rate was seen between the two groups. Chest tube placement, however, was required in 21% (four of 19) of the puncture-site-up group versus 3% (one of 36) of the puncture-site-down group, which was a significant difference (P = .04). Puncture-site-down postbiopsy positioning reduces the proportion of patients requiring chest tube placement after lung biopsy.

UI  - 1863121
TI  - Multicentre randomised controlled trial of high against low frequency positive pressure ventilation. Oxford Region Controlled Trial of Artificial Ventilation OCTAVE Study Group.
AB  - A total of 346 infants aged less than 72 hours were randomly allocated to be treated either by high frequency positive pressure ventilation (HFPPV; rate fixed at 60/minute throughout treatment and initial inspiratory:expiratory (I:E) ratio 1:2, increased to 1:1 if necessary) or by low frequency positive pressure ventilation (LFPPV; rate less than or equal to 40/minute and initial I:E ratio usually 1:1, both decreasing during weaning). The main hypotheses were that HFPPV reduces pneumothorax, chronic lung disease and death before discharge in all infants, as well as those with hyaline membrane disease, and that it reduces the incidence of later neurodevelopmental complications in infants of less than 33 weeks' gestation. Among all the infants the rate of pneumothorax was 19% in the HFPPV group and 26% in the LFPPV group (p = 0.13; odds ratio 0.7, 95% confidence intervals (CI) 0.4 to 1.1); there was no difference in mortality or the incidence of chronic lung disease. In infants of less than 33 weeks' gestation there were no differences in adverse neurodevelopmental outcomes. Among the subgroup of 237 infants with hyaline membrane disease, median fractional inspired oxygen at the time of entry to the trial was 0.6 in the HFPPV group and 0.7 in the LFPPV group, indicating that many had moderately severe disease. In patients with hyaline membrane disease HFPPV was associated with a lower rate of pneumothorax (18% in the HFPPV group compared with 33% in the LFPPV group, p = 0.013, odds ratio 0.5, 95% CI 0.3 to 0.8, with no differences in mortality, or in duration of intubation or supplementary oxygen in survivors. As used in this study, HFPPV was the preferred ventilator regimen for infants with hyaline membrane disease.

UI  - 2040354
TI  - Factors influencing the clinical response to surfactant replacement therapy in babies with severe respiratory distress syndrome. Collaborative European Multicentre Study Group.
AB  - Clinical data from a total of 164 babies with severe respiratory distress syndrome treated with a single dose of porcine surfactant (Curosurf, 200 mg/kg body weight) were subjected to multiple regression analysis in order to identify factors influencing the response to replacement therapy. At entry all babies were being treated with artificial ventilation, requiring at least 60% oxygen; the first 77 babies were part of a controlled trial, and an additional 87 babies were treated without controls once the benefit of surfactant therapy had been established. Both series of patients showed a sustained doubling of the mean arterial/alveolar oxygen tension ratio (a/APO2) after treatment with surfactant. Mortality was only 15% in the new series of treated patients, and the number of survivors without evidence of chronic lung disease after 28 days remained twice as high as that of the control group in the randomized study (55% vs. 26%; P less than 0.001). High fraction of inspired oxygen requirement at entry had a negative impact on a/APO2 6 h and 24 h after treatment. The duration of artificial ventilation and total time in greater than 21% oxygen were lower in heavier babies, who also had a lower mortality. Male and outborn babies had a higher mortality. Perinatal asphyxia (Apgar score less than 7 at 5 min) and high airway pressure requirement at entry were associated with increased mortality. Hospital allocation had a significant impact on all dependent variables. We also analysed the incidence of complications in relation to the therapeutic response pattern.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

UI  - 2000109
TI  - A comparison of surfactant as immediate prophylaxis and as rescue therapy in newborns of less than 30 weeks' gestation.
AB  - We found a significant advantage to the administration of the initial dose of surfactant as prophylaxis rather than as rescue therapy in very premature infants.

UI  - 2006936
TI  - Radiographic findings associated with surfactant treatment.
AB  - Radiographs of the chest (CXR) were evaluated in 35 of 41 infants enrolled in a randomized controlled trial of modified bovine surfactant extract (Surfactant-TA Tokyo-Tanabe) treatment. Infants between birthweight 1000 and 1500 gm with respiratory distress syndrome requiring mechanical ventilation and an inspired oxygen concentration 0.4 or greater were randomly assigned to either a single intratracheal dose of saline or surfactant-TA prior to 8 hours of age. Radiographs obtained prior to treatment and 24 hours after treatment were reviewed by a radiologist (N.T.G.) without knowledge of treatment group. Evaluation consisted of a score including criteria for inflation of the lungs, density of the lungs, and extent of air bronchograms. Pneumothorax, pulmonary interstitial emphysema, and asymmetric parenchymal involvement were noted as well. No significant difference in CXR scores were noted in the two groups, before or after treatment. There was a greater incidence of pneumothorax and pulmonary interstitial emphysema in the control infants, which supports the role of surfactant in preventing barotrauma. Increased incidence of asymmetric parenchymal involvement was noted in the surfactant-treated infants. Further study of the possibility of drug maldistribution is warranted.

UI  - 1989743
TI  - Interpleural analgesia improves pulmonary function after cholecystectomy.
AB  - The purpose of this study was to examine the effects of interpleural bupivacaine on analgesia and ventilatory capacity after cholecystectomy. Forty-two patients undergoing elective cholecystectomy were randomly assigned to two groups: one to receive interpleural administration of bupivacaine-adrenaline mixture (Group 1 = 22 patients) and the other standard administration of intramuscular meperidine (Group 2 = 20 patients) for postoperative pain relief. The intensity of pain was evaluated by a visual analogue scale (VAS) preoperatively as well as at 2, 8, 24 and 48 hr postoperatively. At the same time, FVC and FEV1.0 measurements were obtained for all patients. The group given interpleural bupivacaine had better pain relief with mean VAS of 0.6 +/- 0.9 (mean +/- SD) 1.1 +/- 1.4, 0.6 +/- 0.9 and 0.8 +/- 1.2 compared with 5.2 +/- 2.2, 5.8 +/- 2.7, 5.5 +/- 2.2 and 4.5 +/- 1.8 for patients receiving meperidine (P less than 0.001). The patients in Group 1 also had larger FVC and FEV than those in Group 2: FVC 22 +/- 14.5 per cent vs 32 +/- 15.2 per cent (P less than 0.005), FEV1.0 25 +/- 15.5 vs 38 +/- 14.8 per cent (P less than 0.001) (mean +/- SD). We conclude that the interpleural analgesia can achieve better pain relief with greater ventilatory capacity than a standard analgesic regimen in the first two days after cholecystectomy.

UI  - 1871692
TI  - Continuous extrapleural intercostal nerve block after pleurectomy.
AB  - A randomised, double blind trial was carried out in 16 patients undergoing pleurectomy to assess the effect of continuous extrapleural intercostal block on postoperative pain and pulmonary function. Subjective pain relief was assessed on a linear visual analogue scale. Pulmonary function was measured on the day before operation and daily for five days after surgery. Eight patients received bupivacaine and eight placebo (saline). The mean pain scores at 4, 8, 16, and 24 hours were 13.3, 8.5, 6.1, and 10 mm respectively in the bupivacaine group compared with 56.3, 41, 46.7, and 35 in the control group; in addition, the bupivacaine group required less papaveretum. Twenty four hours after surgery mean values of peak expiratory flow, forced expiratory volume in one second, and forced vital capacity were reduced to 82%, 76%, and 76% of preoperative control values in the bupivacaine group, and to 39%, 32%, and 36% in the control group. The speed of recovery of pulmonary function was superior in the bupivacaine group. There were no complications related to the infusion. Continuous extrapleural intercostal nerve blockade with bupivacaine provides safe and effective postoperative analgesia and improves respiratory mechanics after pleurectomy.

UI  - 2214100
TI  - Intrapleural tetracycline for the prevention of recurrent spontaneous pneumothorax. Results of a Department of Veterans Affairs cooperative study.
AB  - This prospective, multicenter, randomized, "unblinded," controlled clinical trial was designed to determine if the intrapleural instillation of 1500 mg of tetracycline hydrochloride would be effective in diminishing the ipsilateral rate of recurrence for spontaneous pneumothorax. During the 4-year enrollment period, 113 patients were assigned to the tetracycline group; 116 patients were assigned to the control group. During the 5-year study period, the recurrence rate in the tetracycline group (25%) was significantly less than that in the control group (41%). Use of tetracycline seemed to reduce the recurrence rates for patients with either primary or secondary spontaneous pneumothorax and for patients with either an initial or a recurrent pneumothorax. We conclude that the intrapleural administration of tetracycline in patients with spontaneous pneumothorax significantly reduces the rate of ipsilateral recurrence but is associated with intense chest pain. Intrapleural tetracycline therapy is indicated for patients with a spontaneous pneumothorax who are hospitalized and are treated with tube thoracostomy.

UI  - 2213948
TI  - The role of antibiotic therapy in the prevention of empyema in patients with an isolated chest injury (ISS 9-10): a prospective study.
AB  - The purpose of this study was to determine the impact of an antibiotic regimen on the incidence of empyema in patients admitted with isolated chest trauma (ISS 9/10) and hemopneumothorax requiring tube thoracostomy. All patients with isolated chest trauma and hemopneumothorax (estimated ISS 9 or 10) seen in our trauma center were considered eligible for this study. Patients were excluded for the following reasons: age less than 18 years, presence of shock at the time of initial resuscitation, ongoing antibiotic therapy for unrelated disease, documented pre-existing infection or documented abnormal immune status. Ninety patients were randomized to two treatment limbs: antibiotics and tube thoracostomy or tube thoracostomy alone. All patients had the procedure performed in the trauma center in a standard fashion. Wound care and tube care were identical. Antibiotic therapy consisted of a first-generation cephalosporin (cefazolin), one dose given just before the procedure and then q 6 h into the tube removal. Injury Severity Scores were established as described by Schwab after the manner of Baker. Statistical analysis was performed using Fisher's exact test of binary outcome. In this study, antibiotics were able to reduce the incidence of empyema in patients with isolated chest trauma and for such patients antibiotic treatment appears justified. Further work is required to determine the effect on patients with more severe injury and multisystem involvement.

UI  - 2367653
TI  - Usefulness of the blood patch technique after transthoracic needle aspiration biopsy.
AB  - The authors investigated the effectiveness of the blood patch technique in reducing the pneumothorax and chest tube insertion rates after transthoracic needle lung biopsy. Biopsy of 100 pulmonary nodules was performed with a coaxial system. In this prospective, randomized study, patients either received a blood patch (group A, n = 46) or did not (group B, n = 47). Seven procedures were excluded: five for technical reasons and two because of lack of follow-up information. Comparison of the two groups by means of X2 analysis and the Student t test revealed no difference in the mean age, gender, smoking history, proportion of heavy smokers, nodule size, presence of cavitation, or number of needle passes. The pneumothorax rate was 24% (11 of 46 patients) in group A and 30% (14 of 47 patients) in group B. The chest tube insertion rate was 2.2% (one patient) in group A and 2.1% (one patient) in group B. The difference between the groups in either rate was not significant (P greater than .5). The blood patch technique did not lower the rate of pneumothorax or chest tube insertion.

UI  - 2194466
TI  - A randomized clinical trial of rib belts for simple fractures.
AB  - The authors present a pilot study in which 20 patients with simple rib fractures were randomized prospectively into two treatment groups. One group received ibuprofen and the other group ibuprofen plus a rib belt for analgesia. There were no statistically significant differences observed in pulmonary function testing between the groups at initial visit, 48 hours, or 5 days. Atelectasis developed in four patients, two in each treatment group; there were no cases of pneumonitis. Patients with displaced rib fractures experienced a higher rate of hemo- or pneumothorax than did those with nondisplaced fractures (5/10 v 1/10). Patients with displaced fractures who used rib belts experienced a higher rate of hemothorax than those using oral analgesia alone (4/6 v 1/4). Patients using rib belts uniformly reported a significant amount of additional pain relief. The clinician can use a rib belt to provide additional comfort to the patient with fractured ribs without apparent additional compromise to respiratory parameters. A further study stratifying displaced and nondisplaced fractures has been initiated to clarify the possible contributing roles of displaced rib fractures and the rib belt in patients with displaced fractures.

UI  - 2183735
TI  - Complications associated with thoracentesis. A prospective, randomized study comparing three different methods.
AB  - To determine what role the technique plays in complications associated with thoracentesis performed by physicians in training, we undertook a prospective study of thoracentesis in the medical service at our institution in which the sampling method was randomized among needle, needle with catheter, and needle with direct sonographic guidance. Fifty-two spontaneously breathing, cooperative patients with free-flowing effusions obliterating more than half of the hemidiaphragm on an upright, posteroanterior chest roentgenogram were randomized. When we analyzed those complications that were potentially life-threatening (eg, pneumothorax) and/or placed patients at increased risk for further morbidity (eg, pneumothorax, dry tap, inadequate tap), the sonography-guided method was associated with significantly fewer serious complications (0 of 19) than the needle-catheter (9 of 18) or needle-only methods (5 of 15). The sonography-guided method was associated with fewer pneumothoraces (0 of 19) than the needle-catheter (7 of 18) or needle-only methods (3 of 15). The difference between needle-catheter and needle-only methods was not significant. From our results, we conclude that the method by which thoracentesis was performed significantly influenced the spectrum and frequency of complications, and the sonography-guided method was the safest.

UI  - 2799742
TI  - Spontaneous pneumothorax: comparison of simple drainage, talc pleurodesis, and tetracycline pleurodesis.
AB  - From 1978 to 1985 96 patients with their first spontaneous pneumothorax were randomised into three groups, receiving either treatment with simple drainage (34 patients), drainage with tetracycline pleurodesis (33 patients), or drainage with talc pleurodesis (29 patients). There were 58 men and 38 women, aged 18-88 years. There was no significant difference between the three groups in the mean time in hospital or the period for which the drains were retained. The incidence of infection, persistent pneumothorax, and relapse while in hospital was also similar for the three groups. At follow-up in 1987-89 patients could be accounted for, with an average follow-up period of 4.6 years. The incidence of recurrence was 36% in the simple drainage group, 13% in the tetracycline pleurodesis group, and 8% in the talc pleurodesis group. The difference between the talc and simple drainage groups was significant. None of the methods caused severe short or long term side effects or changes in the follow-up chest radiograph. Thoracoscopy, performed on admission in 85 patients, showed normal appearances in 73 patients and small cysts in 12. The thoracoscopic findings were of no value in predicting recurrence. Talc pleurodesis resulted in a significantly lower recurrence rate than simple drainage, tetracycline pleurodesis having intermediate efficacy.

UI  - 2774145
TI  - Interpleural administration of bupivacaine after cholecystectomy: a comparison with intercostal nerve block.
AB  - Pethidine requirements and verbal pain scores were recorded in 36 patients after cholecystectomy via subcostal incision. All patients also received 20 ml 0.5% bupivacaine with adrenaline 1/200,000. Group 1 (12 patients) received unilateral intercostal nerve blocks. Interpleural catheters were inserted through the 8th intercostal space in the remaining patients; 12 received local anaesthetic via the catheter immediately after surgery (Group 2) and 12 were given local anaesthetic at three hours (Group 3). Small asymptomatic pneumothoraces were noted on chest X-ray in six of the 24 patients with interpleural catheters. Both types of local anaesthesia produced lower pain scores than pethidine alone (P less than 0.05) with 25% of intercostal nerve blocks and 63% of interpleural catheters requiring no pethidine in the following three hours. The provision of catheter 'top-ups' between six and 18 hours after surgery also resulted in lower pain scores and a reduction in pethidine requirements (P less than 0.05).

UI  - 2763278
TI  - Chemical pleurodesis in primary spontaneous pneumothorax.
AB  - Spontaneous pneumothorax presents a high recurrence rate after conventional pleural drainage procedures. Different pleural scarifying agents are used in an attempt to prevent early and late recurrence. To investigate the effect of tetracycline and 30%-glucose, we conducted a randomized study on 20 patients with primary spontaneous pneumothorax: 10 patients were treated by pleural drainage combined with chemical pleurodesis; 10 patients were treated by pleural drainage alone. Chemical pleurodesis resulted in a statistically significant reduction (p less than 0.05) in early recurrence. The rate and magnitude of late recurrences however was unaffected by the pleurodesis treatment, although recurrence in the chemically treated group was later than in the conventional drainage group.

UI  - 2648150
TI  - A multicenter randomized, placebo-controlled trial of surfactant therapy for respiratory distress syndrome.
AB  - We carried out a multicenter randomized, placebo-controlled trial to evaluate the efficacy and safety of surfactant in the treatment of respiratory distress syndrome. The study population was made up of newborn infants weighing 750 to 1750 g who were receiving assisted ventilation with 40 percent or more oxygen. The eligible infants received a single dose of either surfactant (100 mg of phospholipid per kilogram of body weight [4 ml per kilogram]) or an air placebo (4 ml per kilogram), administered into the trachea within eight hours of birth by an investigator not involved in the clinical care of the infant. When compared with the infants who received the placebo (n = 81), the infants who were treated with surfactant (n = 78) had a 0.12 greater average increase in the ratio of arterial to alveolar oxygen tension (P less than 0.0001), a 0.20 greater average decrease in the fractional inspiratory oxygen concentration (P less than 0.0001), and a 0.26-kPa greater average decrease in the mean airway pressure (P less than 0.0001) during the 72 hours after treatment. Pneumothorax was less frequent among the infants treated with surfactant than in the control group (13 percent vs. 37 percent; P = 0.0005). There were no statistically significant differences between the groups in the proportion of infants in each of five ordered clinical-status categories on day 7 (P = 0.08) or day 28 (P = 0.75) after treatment. There were also no significant differences between the groups in the frequency of bronchopulmonary dysplasia, patent ductus arteriosus, necrotizing enterocolitis, or periventricular-intraventricular hemorrhage. In each group, 17 percent of the infants died by day 28. We conclude that treatment with the single-dose surfactant regimen used in this study reduces the severity of respiratory distress during the 72 hours after treatment and decreases the frequency of pneumothorax, but that it does not significantly improve clinical status later in the neonatal period and does not reduce neonatal mortality. Further study of different surfactant regimens and patient-selection criteria will be required to determine whether this initial improvement can be translated into reductions in mortality or serious morbidity.

UI  - 2519936
TI  - Intrapleural bupivacaine--technical considerations and intraoperative use.
AB  - The authors evaluated the incidence and type of technical problems associated with blind insertion of intrapleural catheters placed in 21 anesthetized patients and then injected in a double-blind fashion with 0.5% bupivacaine (1.5 mg/kg) or isotonic saline. The patients' chests were then opened, catheter positions located, and the lungs inspected. Eleven of the catheters were located with the tips intrapleurally, three extrapleurally, and seven actually in lung tissue. Eight patients had holes in the lung surface. Three patients had a pneumothorax, two of which were under tension. Plasma bupivacaine levels reached maximal concentrations at about 20 minutes in those with intrapleurally placed catheters, but not until 60 minutes when the catheter had actually penetrated the lung. Significant variations in plasma bupivacaine levels were achieved when the catheter entered lung tissue, with potentially toxic levels in one patient. To evaluate intraoperative analgesic effects, all patients were given a standard anesthetic with isoflurane, oxygen, and a muscle relaxant. There was no significant difference in isoflurane requirement between the groups who had bupivacaine v saline injected into their intrapleural catheters before surgery. It is concluded that blind insertion of intrapleural catheters can be hazardous, especially if followed by positive-pressure ventilation. In addition, catheter placement in lung tissue, which was not uncommon, delays the time for peak plasma concentrations and may increase risk of toxicity. Intrapleural bupivacaine was not found to be a useful adjunct to general anesthesia during thoracotomies.

UI  - 2690209
TI  - [Treatment of recurrent pneumothorax applying fibrin adhesive under endoscopy].
AB  - Recurrent or chronic pneumothorax may be treated by thoracoscopy and the administration of substances to achieve a symphysis. Several substances have been tried and amongst these talc currently gives the best result. This study looked at the action of a fibrin adhesive (Tissucol) administered through a thoracoscope to achieve a pleural symphysis. 32 patients were treated, all suffering from recurrent pneumothoraces and a thoracoscopy was carried out under local anaesthetic using the standard technique, the Tissucol was spread over the apico-axillary region in a dose of 2 ml. After one year's follow up a success rate of 75% was noted. If category IV pneumothorax was excluded (bullous dystrophy) the percentage of favourable results was 35%. The painless nature of Tissucol applications was noted and this method thus gives satisfactory results in pneumothorax where there is no apparent bullous dystrophy and perhaps can be used as a therapeutic technique during a thoracoscopy where important bullous dystrophy is not noted as the cause of the pneumothorax.

UI  - 3190292
TI  - Catheter infection. A comparison of two catheter maintenance techniques.
AB  - Incidence of catheter-related infections was studied using two techniques: changing catheters over a guide-wire or placing a new catheter at a new site every 3 days. Patients were randomized into two groups: Group 1 (new site) and Group 2 (guide-wire). Of the 105 catheterization sites (20 arterial and 85 central lines) in patients of Group 1, none were considered infected (i.e., having 15 or more colonies at the time of semi-quantitative microbiology analysis and clinical signs of infection at the catheter site). Of the 274 catheterization sites (56 arterial and 218 central) of patients of Group 2, eight (2.9%) were infected (chi 2 = 1.89, p greater than 0.05). Colonization (15 or more cultures without clinical signs of infection) occurred in three of 105 (2.9%) and in four of 274 (1.5%) of the catheterization sites of Groups 1 and 2, respectively (chi 2 = 0.23, p greater than 0.05). Study results indicate no significant difference in infection or colonization rates between the two methods of catheter replacement.

UI  - 3054783
TI  - Surfactant replacement therapy at birth: final analysis of a clinical trial and comparisons with similar trials.
AB  - A randomized trial of surfactant replacement therapy at birth was conducted at the University of Rochester between June 1983 and November 1985. Thirty-four premature infants, 25 to 29 weeks' gestational age, received a preventilatory dose of a calf lung surfactant extract in saline prepared at the University of Rochester. A control group of 31 infants received a preventilatory dose of saline alone. The major finding of this trial is that a single preventilatory dose of calf lung surfactant extract reduces the severity of the respiratory distress syndrome during the first 24 hours of life. The beneficial effects, however, are not sustained in many infants and diminish after 24 hours of life. The survival rate was 71% in both the control and surfactant-treated groups. There was a lower incidence of pneumothorax in the surfactant-treated group. There were no differences in the incidence of bronchopulmonary dysplasia, patent ductus arteriosus, and intraventricular hemorrhage. No adverse effects of surfactant replacement therapy were identified. Results of this study suggest that multiple postventilatory doses of surfactant will be required for optimal therapy.

UI  - 2903480
TI  - Surfactant replacement therapy for severe neonatal respiratory distress syndrome: an international randomized clinical trial. Collaborative European Multicenter Study Group.
AB  - In a randomized multicenter trial, involving the collaboration of eight European neonatal intensive care units, the efficacy of replacement therapy with a new surfactant preparation (Curosurf) was tested in 146 patients with severe neonatal respiratory distress syndrome. Criteria for entry included birth weight 700 to 2,000 g, age when treated two to 15 hours, and requirement of artificial ventilation with FiO2 greater than or equal to 0.6. The babies were treated with a single large dose of surfactant (200 mg/kg) at a median age of nine hours (range two to 15 hours). Average FiO2 before treatment was the same (0.80) for both surfactant-treated patients and control patients. Babies receiving surfactant showed, within five minutes, a dramatic improvement of oxygenation as reflected by a nearly threefold increase of the PaO2/FiO2 ratio. Six hours after randomization, the PaO2/FiO2 ratio still showed a 98% improvement in surfactant-treated patients compared with controls (P less than .001), and statistically significant differences in favor of the treated babies persisted until 48 hours after randomization, when surviving control infants began to recover. Treatment with surfactant decreased neonatal (less than or equal to 28 days) mortality from 51% to 31% (P less than .05). Compared with control babies, the surfactant-treated group also had a decreased incidence of pulmonary interstitial emphysema (23% v 39%; P less than .05) and pneumothorax (18% v 35%; P less than .05). The percentage of survivors without bronchopulmonary dysplasia in the treated group was more than twice that of the control group (55% v 26%; P less than .001).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

UI  - 3282814
TI  - Minimal positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP) may be "best PEEP".
AB  - In the absence of clinical trials, positive end-expired pressure (PEEP) has been accepted as efficacious for treatment of postoperative decreases in arterial oxygen tension (PaO2) from a variety of causes including adult respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). PEEP is thought to increase PaO2 by alveolar recruitment, which in turn, has been hypothesized to play a decisive role in pulmonary recovery. One hundred and eighteen patients were followed prospectively, and after development of decreased PaO2, randomized to receive recruitive PEEP (determined by blood gas criteria) or supportive PEEP (the minimal PEEP required to maintain PaO2 above 60 mm Hg on .5 inspired O2 fraction (FIO2). No prognostic factors were significantly different between the two groups. Recruitive PEEP application in 22 patients yielded a significantly increased incidence of hypotension (55 percent), pneumothorax (20 percent), and death during treatment (27 percent) when compared to the 28 supportive PEEP patients who had no hypotension or pneumothorax and only one death during treatment (4 percent). After PEEP treatment, deaths in each group were similar (19 percent and 15 percent, respectively). We find no evidence that PEEP treatment promotes beneficial outcomes and conclude that recruitment attempts may be harmful.

UI  - 3117982
TI  - The effect of nutritional support on outcome from severe head injury.
AB  - Fifty-one brain-injured patients with peak 24-hour admission Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) scores of 4 to 10 were prospectively randomly assigned to receive total parenteral (TPN) or enteral (EN) nutrition. Patients were studied from hospital admission to 18 days postinjury. Outcome was assessed by the Glasgow Outcome Scale at 3 months, 6 months, and 1 year postinjury. The TPN group received a significantly higher cumulative mean intake of protein than the EN group (mean +/- standard error of the mean: 1.35 +/- 0.12 vs. 0.91 +/- 0.9 gm/kg/day; p = 0.004). Mean cumulative caloric balance was also significantly higher in the TPN than in the EN group (75.6% +/- 5.13% vs. 59% +/- 4.26%; p = 0.02). Nitrogen balance was significantly more negative in the EN group during the 1st week postinjury (p = 0.002). The incidence of pneumonia, urinary tract infections, septic shock, and infections was not significantly different between groups. Classic nutritional assessment parameters such as anergy screens, total lymphocyte counts, and albumin levels were not significantly different between groups. The 11 patients in the EN group who did not tolerate tube feedings for 1 week postinjury had a significantly higher incidence of septic shock (p = 0.008). The change over time in GCS scores between groups was significantly different, with the TPN group showing a mean four-point increase in GCS score compared with a three-point increase in the EN group (p = 0.02). At 3 months the TPN group had a significantly higher percentage of favorable outcomes (43.5% vs. 17.9%, respectively; p = 0.05). At 6 months, 43.5% of the TPN group had a favorable outcome while 32.1% of the EN group had a favorable outcome (p = 0.29). By 1 year, 47.8% of the TPN group and 32.1% of the EN group had a favorable outcome (p = 0.20). In conclusion, more calories and protein usually can be administered to acute brain injury patients via the TPN route than by EN feedings via nasogastric or nasoduodenal routes. Traditional parameters for nutritional assessment are not useful in studying the efficacy of nutritional support during the first 2 weeks after head injury. Neurological recovery from head injury occurs more rapidly in patients with better early nutritional support.

UI  - 3618574
TI  - Respiratory complications in low-birth-weight infants who received phenobarbital.
AB  - We compared the ventilatory requirements of 127 infants who received phenobarbital for five days with those of 111 infants who received placebo. All infants were intubated, weighted less than 1750 g at birth, and survived the first ten days of life. Those infants who received phenobarbital did not require ventilatory assistance for more days than did placebo receivers. However, a pneumothorax or pulmonary interstitial emphysema was more likely to develop in infants who received phenobarbital than in infants who received placebo, even when adjustment was made for the presence of subependymal-intraventricular hemorrhage. We believe this is the first report of this relationship and recommend additional studies to test the hypothesis that phenobarbital contributes to the occurrence/recognition of pneumothorax or pulmonary interstitial emphysema in very-low-birth-weight infants if phenobarbital continues to be used routinely as prophylaxis or treatment.

UI  - 3551401
TI  - [Thoracic epidural analgesia (TEA) with morphine as an alternative to the administration of general anesthesia in thoracotomized patients].
AB  - A randomised prospective study was conducted into 60 patients who had undergone thoracotomy for spontaneous pneumothorax or bronchial carcinoma. Pyrazolone was intramuscularly and intravenously injected for postoperative pain relief to some of these patients. Another group received morphine through an epidural catheter (TEA). Postoperative spirometric checks were made on the first, third, and fifth days from surgery. The degree of analgesia was measured by means of the Twycross method. The ventilation parameters recorded from patients with epidural morphine treatment were clearly better than those measured from patients who had received pyrazolone. The amount of pain relief reported by TEA patients were better than that recorded from the pyrazolone group.

UI  - 3539524
TI  - Pulmonary artery catheterization: a prospective study of internal jugular and subclavian approaches.
AB  - We compared complications of pulmonary artery catheter (PAC) insertion and maintenance at internal jugular (IJ) vs. subclavian (SC) sites. Patients were randomized into groups using an IJ or SC route, and insertions were timed. An air-permeable dressing and anticontamination shield were used. Catheters were removed 72 h after insertion. If PAC monitoring was still needed, a new catheter was either inserted over a guidewire at the initial insertion site or inserted at a new site. On removal, the catheter tip, introducer-sheath tip, and catheter within the shield were submitted for semiquantitative culture. Sixty-six catheters were initially inserted, and 26 were changed. No determinative differences in the time for venous cannulation were found, but the IJ route was slightly faster. In 3% of the catheterizations, serious complications arose. The infection rate was 2% for initial catheters, 8% for second catheters placed over a guidewire, and 15% for second catheters placed at a new site. These differences were not consequential. No local infection or catheter-related sepsis occurred. Thus, using a standard, sterile-insertion technique and a catheter-maintenance protocol yielded a low risk of insertion and infectious complications at either the IJ or SC site. Our data indicated that PACs can be changed safely over a guidewire at 72 h, avoiding further insertion risks without increasing infectious complications.

UI  - 3795301
TI  - Tube thoracostomy and trauma--antibiotics or not?
AB  - Controversy persists regarding the use of antibiotics in association with t tube thoracostomy for trauma patients. We conducted a prospective randomized study of patients requiring tube thoracostomy for pneumo- and/or hemothorax complicating blunt or penetrating thoracic trauma in an attempt to assess the efficacy of prophylactic antibiotic therapy. Fifty-eight patients were included in the study. The control group (Group I) included 28 patients who received no antibiotic therapy: the experimental group (Group II) included 30 patients who received cefoxitin (1.0 gm IV q 6 h) commencing before tube thoracostomy and terminating 12 hours after its removal. The incidence of infectious complications (pneumonia and/or empyema) was recorded. Among the patients not receiving antibiotics, eight of 28 (29%) developed infectious chest complications. Of the patients receiving antibiotics, there was one infectious complication (3%). This difference is statistically significant (p = 0.0227). Cultures demonstrated significant conversion from negative to positive both within each group and between groups. The organism most commonly recovered was S. aureus. Our findings strongly suggest that patients requiring tube thoracostomy for trauma, whether blunt or penetrating, should receive the benefit of systemic prophylactic antibiotic therapy.

UI  - 3528853
TI  - Prophylactic treatment of very premature infants with human surfactant.
AB  - We undertook a randomized, controlled trial to determine whether human surfactant administered endotracheally at birth to very premature infants (gestational age, 24 to 29 weeks) would prevent the respiratory distress syndrome or reduce its severity. Thirty-one treated infants (birth weight, 938 +/- 286 g) were compared in a blinded fashion with 29 control infants (birth weight, 964 +/- 174 g). The lecithin/sphingomyelin ratio was less than 2 in all infants, and phosphatidylglycerol was not present in amniotic fluid or tracheal fluids at birth, indicating a deficiency of surfactant in the lungs. The principal dependent variables were neonatal death, the incidence of bronchopulmonary dysplasia, and the infant's requirement for respiratory support (and its complications). The surfactant-treated group had significantly fewer deaths than the control group (16 percent vs. 52 percent, P less than 0.001), fewer cases of bronchopulmonary dysplasia (16 percent vs. 31 percent), and significantly fewer cases of pulmonary interstitial emphysema (P less than 0.001) and pneumothorax (P less than 0.02). Prophylactic treatment with human surfactant also substantially reduced the period of neonatal intensive care. We conclude that treatment with human surfactant offers promise for improving the survival of very premature infants with a surfactant deficiency and for reducing the pulmonary sequelae of the respiratory distress syndrome.

UI  - 3729097
TI  - Subclavian vein catheterization in the emergency department: a comparison of guidewire and nonguidewire techniques.
AB  - Guidewire catheters have been used with increasing frequency during the last several years for placement of central venous lines. No data exist comparing success and complication rates of guidewire and nonguidewire catheterization in the emergency setting. A prospective, randomized study was conducted to compare GW and NGW central venous catheterization (CVC) by the infraclavicular subclavian approach. The study consisted of 210 patients (87 trauma, 123 medical) requiring a CVC as part of their emergency department care. Catheter placement and complications were determined by immediate chest radiograph, two-day followup, and chart review after discharge. Results demonstrated no statistically significant differences in success rates or complications, with the exception of catheter malfunction due to extrathoracic vascular placement or catheter kinkage. This complication occurred more frequently when the guidewire technique was used. The guidewire CVC technique does not appear to offer any improvement of complication rates when compared to the nonguidewire technique.

UI  - 3975798
TI  - Prophylactic antibiotics and closed tube thoracostomy.
AB  - A prospective randomized study of 85 patients who had sustained trauma to the chest requiring closed tube thoracostomy is reported. They were segregated into two groups, one of which did not receive prophylactic cephapirin sodium. Although the series is somewhat abbreviated, it would appear that the use of prophylactic antibiotics merely for the presence of a chest tube is an unsettled issue and of no definitely proved benefit.

UI  - 6142382
TI  - Conservative management of spontaneous pneumothorax.
AB  - 

UI  - 6140340
TI  - Pancuronium prevents pneumothoraces in ventilated premature babies who actively expire against positive pressure inflation.
AB  - Preterm infants who were making expiratory efforts against ventilator inflation were randomised to be paralysed with pancuronium or to receive no paralysing agent during ventilation. Pneumothoraces developed in all 11 unparalysed babies but in only 1 of 11 (p less than 0.0004) of those managed with pancuronium, which had no serious side-effects. In 34 infants excluded from the trial because they were not breathing against the ventilator, no pneumothoraces developed.

UI  - 6443719
TI  - Preoperative percutaneous transhepatic drainage: use or abuse. A clinical review.
AB  - The benefit of preoperative percutaneous transhepatic biliary drainage in patients with obstructive jaundice was reviewed in the literature from 1974 to July 1984. The role of preoperative drainage cannot be definitively assessed. Significant reduction of morbidity and mortality has been reported in some non-controlled studies; however, no benefit of preoperative "external" drainage was found in the only two reported randomized studies. At the present time external preoperative drainage cannot be advised routinely and the hazards of this technique and effect of bile losses may outweigh the benefits. The benefits of preoperative internal drainage without bile loss and closing of the enterohepatic cycle needs to be evaluated both percutaneously and endoscopically. Criteria, developed after specific identification of high risk patients, should be used to select patients for biliary drainage and to evaluate results of drainage studies. The clinical well-accepted drainage period of 2-4 weeks is controversial and the optimum period of drainage also requires further evaluation. The percutaneous approach carries significant morbidity and mortality.

UI  - 6353077
TI  - Tetracycline versus silver nitrate pleurodesis in spontaneous pneumothorax.
AB  - Silver nitrate pleurodesis as prevention against recurrence in primary spontaneous pneumothorax was started in our department on an empiric basis. In a controlled trial in 1981 the method was found to be as good as earlier stated, but the method has a high number of side effects and has never been widely accepted. In a prospective, controlled trial comparing silver nitrate pleurodesis with tetracycline pleurodesis, we found no differences in recurrence frequency, but the time of hospitalization was significantly longer in the silver nitrate group (p less than 0.05). Furthermore, we found a decrease of exudation and a decreased use of analgetics in the tetracycline group. As a consequence of the investigation, we have abandoned the silver nitrate method and now recommend tetracycline pleurodesis as the treatment of choice in primary spontaneous pneumothorax in patients with only tiny blebs on the surface of the lung.

UI  - 7071793
TI  - Catheter drainage of spontaneous pneumothorax: suction or no suction, early or late removal?
AB  - Twenty-three patients with primary spontaneous pneumothorax and 30 patients with secondary spontaneous pneumothorax treated by intercostal catheter drainage with underwater seal were divided randomly into two groups, one receiving suction drainage (up to 20 cm H2O pressure) and the other no suction. The success rate was 57% for the former and 50% for the latter. The suction group spent an average of five days in hospital, whereas the non-suction group averaged four days. Suction drainage therefore did not have any advantage. To determine how soon the catheter could be removed without complication, patients were also divided randomly into two subgroups--one had the catheter removed, without previous clamping, as soon as the lung was expanded; the other had the catheters left in situ for a further three days. The success rate was 52% for the former, and 53% for the latter. But most of the failure in the early removal group was caused by re-collapse of the lung rather than persistent air leakage; hence removal of the catheter too early was not recommended.

UI  - 7014814
TI  - Prospective clinical comparison of two methods for mechanical ventilation of neonates: rapid rate and short inspiratory time versus slow rate and long inspiratory time.
AB  - A prospective comparison was made of the clinical courses of two groups of neonates ventilated according to different protocols: one group at rates of 20 to 40/minute with a one-second IT, and the other at a rate of 60/minute and 0.5 second IT. Other ventilator settings were adjusted within protocol limits to maintain desired blood gas values. Mean starting and highest PIP were lower in the rapid rate group. The results showed no difference in mortality, failure to remain within protocol limits, time requiring respiratory treatment or FiO2 more than 0.6, and incidence of PDA or chronic lung disease. There was a difference (P = 0.011) in number of infants developing pneumothoraces (14% in the rapid group vs 35% in the slow group). Rapid rate ventilation can be used to decrease the incidence of pneumothorax, reserving long IT and higher PIP for infants who cannot be oxygenated or ventilated without them.

UI  - 6109989
TI  - Pancuronium during mechanical ventilation speeds recovery of lungs of infants with hyaline membrane disease.
AB  - Spontaneous breathing during mechanical ventilation in newborn infants may damage the lung. To find out whether the prevalence of lesions which might be due to trauma was reduced by muscle relaxation, fifty infants who required mechanical ventilation of hyaline membrane disease were randomly assigned to treated and control groups. The treated infants were kept muscle relaxed with pancuronium bromide until they needed a FiO2 of 0.40 or less during ventilation. The mean birthweight, gestational age, age at entry to the trial, duration of intubation and ventilation, FiO2 during the acute phase of the illness, and ventilator pressures were closely comparable in the two groups. Two of twenty-six treated infants and one of twenty-four controls died. Four treated and five control infants acquired pneumothoraces and/or interstitial emphysema. The length of time that the treated infants required added oxygen was significantly less than in the control infants. All treated infants were breathing room air spontaneously by one month of age whereas seven control infants were still dependent on added oxygen, needing an average FiO2 of 0.35 to achieve a mean PaO2 of 6.5 kPa (49 mm Hg). These seven infants required added oxygen until they were 5-18 (mean 10) weeks old. Muscle relaxation during mechanical ventilation for hyaline membrane disease speeds recovery of the lungs, probably owing to a reduction in traumatic damage.

UI  - 6753138
TI  - Silver nitrate pleurodesis in spontaneous pneumothorax.
AB  - Pleurodesis provoked by instillation of silver nitrate as prevention against recurrence in primary spontaneous pneumothorax has been used for many years in the Department of Thoracic Surgery, Gentofte Hospital, University of Copenhagen. The treatment was originally instituted on a theoretical empiric basis. In a prospective, controlled investigation of pleurodesis versus simple drainage the empiric observations have been confirmed. With simple drainage we found ipsilateral recurrence of pneumothorax in 45%, while no recurrences in the pleurodesis group were found during an observation period of 5-19 months. The difference was statistically significant. The therapeutical gain using pleurodesis was 45% +/- 30%. Silver nitrate pleurodesis results in a longer hospitalization, raises the number of pleurocentesis because of increased pleural effusion and results in more pain than simple drainage. It is, however, our experience that the considerable therapeutical gain more than compensates for these negative effects. We recommend pleurodesis as the treatment of choice in primary spontaneous pneumothorax in patients with only tiny blebs on the surface of the lungs.

UI  - 375554
TI  - [Role of forced detoxication for correcting microcirculatory disorders in suppurative, septic diseases in children].
AB  - The author has studied microcirculatory changes in pyo-septic diseases in 112 children, 10 of them--healthy ones (control group). The use of an intense diuresis in complex treatment of severe forms of pyo-septic diseases in children results in a considerable decrease of the blood protheolytic activity and toxicity and allows to interrupt microcirculatory disorders 3 or 4 days earlier than the routine method of detoxication therapy.

UI  - 220738
TI  - [Hormonal preparations in the overall treatment of tuberculosis].
AB  - 

UI  - 662819
TI  - [The effect of suction drainage with negative pressures of 10 cm H2O and 100 cm H2O in the treatment of spontaneous pneumothorax (author's transl)].
AB  - 

UI  - 1119679
TI  - The injured colon: therapeutic considerations.
AB  - A prospective randomized study was carried out at the Detroit General Hospital over a two year period to evaluate methods of management in 165 patients with colonic injuries. Results of the study show that primary closure is a safe and reiable method of management when rigid criteria are incorporated in an ongoing protocol. Moreover, the technic of exteriorization is a safe adjunct to management and is recommended in any patient with a colonic injury above 18 cm in which one suture line is required and in which the additional operating time of twenty minutes will not compromise the management of secondary injuries. Patients not fulfilling these criteria should have primary colostomy. These principles make it possible to reduce the need for primary colostomy to approximately 50 per cent in a large ongoing group of patients with colonic injury.

UI  - 4645029
TI  - The role of analgesia in pulmonary function.
AB  - 

UI  - 4562221
TI  - [Clinical study of the activity and tolerance of hydropropizine, a drug with antitussive activity].
AB  - 

UI  - 4938315
TI  - Oxygen therapy for spontaneous pneumothorax.
AB  - The rate of absorption of gas from a pneumothorax was studied in 12 patients breathing air and in 10 patients breathing air and a high concentration of oxygen alternately. The mean rate of absorption while breathing air was the same in both groups of patients. In the second group the rate consistently increased during periods of oxygen therapy and decreased again on breathing air. The mean rate of absorption increased fourfold during periods of oxygen therapy. This increase was most pronounced in patients with a large pneumothorax.

UI  - 4906375
TI  - Clinical experience of the treatment of drug-resistant pulmonary tuberculosis with rifampicin combined with ethambutol and capreomycin.
AB  - 
