
UI  - 2006936
TI  - Radiographic findings associated with surfactant treatment.
AB  - Radiographs of the chest (CXR) were evaluated in 35 of 41 infants enrolled in a randomized controlled trial of modified bovine surfactant extract (Surfactant-TA Tokyo-Tanabe) treatment. Infants between birthweight 1000 and 1500 gm with respiratory distress syndrome requiring mechanical ventilation and an inspired oxygen concentration 0.4 or greater were randomly assigned to either a single intratracheal dose of saline or surfactant-TA prior to 8 hours of age. Radiographs obtained prior to treatment and 24 hours after treatment were reviewed by a radiologist (N.T.G.) without knowledge of treatment group. Evaluation consisted of a score including criteria for inflation of the lungs, density of the lungs, and extent of air bronchograms. Pneumothorax, pulmonary interstitial emphysema, and asymmetric parenchymal involvement were noted as well. No significant difference in CXR scores were noted in the two groups, before or after treatment. There was a greater incidence of pneumothorax and pulmonary interstitial emphysema in the control infants, which supports the role of surfactant in preventing barotrauma. Increased incidence of asymmetric parenchymal involvement was noted in the surfactant-treated infants. Further study of the possibility of drug maldistribution is warranted.

UI  - 2763278
TI  - Chemical pleurodesis in primary spontaneous pneumothorax.
AB  - Spontaneous pneumothorax presents a high recurrence rate after conventional pleural drainage procedures. Different pleural scarifying agents are used in an attempt to prevent early and late recurrence. To investigate the effect of tetracycline and 30%-glucose, we conducted a randomized study on 20 patients with primary spontaneous pneumothorax: 10 patients were treated by pleural drainage combined with chemical pleurodesis; 10 patients were treated by pleural drainage alone. Chemical pleurodesis resulted in a statistically significant reduction (p less than 0.05) in early recurrence. The rate and magnitude of late recurrences however was unaffected by the pleurodesis treatment, although recurrence in the chemically treated group was later than in the conventional drainage group.

UI  - 2690209
TI  - [Treatment of recurrent pneumothorax applying fibrin adhesive under endoscopy].
AB  - Recurrent or chronic pneumothorax may be treated by thoracoscopy and the administration of substances to achieve a symphysis. Several substances have been tried and amongst these talc currently gives the best result. This study looked at the action of a fibrin adhesive (Tissucol) administered through a thoracoscope to achieve a pleural symphysis. 32 patients were treated, all suffering from recurrent pneumothoraces and a thoracoscopy was carried out under local anaesthetic using the standard technique, the Tissucol was spread over the apico-axillary region in a dose of 2 ml. After one year's follow up a success rate of 75% was noted. If category IV pneumothorax was excluded (bullous dystrophy) the percentage of favourable results was 35%. The painless nature of Tissucol applications was noted and this method thus gives satisfactory results in pneumothorax where there is no apparent bullous dystrophy and perhaps can be used as a therapeutic technique during a thoracoscopy where important bullous dystrophy is not noted as the cause of the pneumothorax.

UI  - 6353077
TI  - Tetracycline versus silver nitrate pleurodesis in spontaneous pneumothorax.
AB  - Silver nitrate pleurodesis as prevention against recurrence in primary spontaneous pneumothorax was started in our department on an empiric basis. In a controlled trial in 1981 the method was found to be as good as earlier stated, but the method has a high number of side effects and has never been widely accepted. In a prospective, controlled trial comparing silver nitrate pleurodesis with tetracycline pleurodesis, we found no differences in recurrence frequency, but the time of hospitalization was significantly longer in the silver nitrate group (p less than 0.05). Furthermore, we found a decrease of exudation and a decreased use of analgetics in the tetracycline group. As a consequence of the investigation, we have abandoned the silver nitrate method and now recommend tetracycline pleurodesis as the treatment of choice in primary spontaneous pneumothorax in patients with only tiny blebs on the surface of the lung.
