
UI  - 24869625
TI  - Impact of GeneXpert MTB/RIF on patients and tuberculosis programs in a low-burden setting. a hypothetical trial.
AB  - Xpert could greatly reduce the frequency and impact of unnecessary empiric treatment, contact investigation, and housing, providing substantial patient and programmatic benefits if used in management decisions.

UI  - 24858642
TI  - Interferon- release assay in HIV-infected patients with active tuberculosis: impact of antituberculous drugs on host immune response.
AB  - The objective of the study was to: 1) investigate the performance of QuantiFERON-TB Gold In-Tube (QFT-GIT) in HIV-infected patients with active tuberculosis (TB); 2) evaluate the sequential changes in QFT-GIT assay during the treatment response; 3) investigate the direct in vitro effects of antituberculous drugs on both secretion of IFN-g and apoptosis of T cells. Forty-four HIV-patients with active TB were enrolled and tested with QFT-GIT. Thirteen of them were followed longitudinally by QFT-GIT, performed at baseline and six and nine months after TB-treatment onset. For in vitro experiments, cells from healthy donors and HIV-naive subjects were pretreated with four antituberculous-drugs, and then examined for IFN-g secretion and apoptosis of T-cells. The QFT-GIT was positive in 66%, negative in 11.3% and indeterminate in 22.7%. Longitudinal analysis in 13 HIV-TB subjects showed that at therapy completion a reversion to negative response was found only in 38.4% of patients, but in 30.7% the QFT-GIT remained positive. Overall, during the anti-TB treatment no significant decrease in average IFN-g response was observed in these patients (p<0.001). In vitro experiments showed that the four antituberculous- drugs, within the range of therapeutically achievable concentrations, did not exert any down-regulatory effect on IFN-g production and did not have any effect on apoptosis of T cells from HIV nave subjects. Despite the high rate of indeterminate results, QFT-GIT assay may represent a good tool in the diagnostic workup for active TB in HIV-patients. Although the antituberculous drugs do not have any direct effect on host immune response to mycobacterial antigen, changes in longitudinal IGRA response have been found during in vivo anti-TB treatment.

UI  - 24726095
TI  - Raltegravir for the treatment of patients co-infected with HIV and tuberculosis (ANRS 12 180 Reflate TB): a multicentre, phase 2, non-comparative, open-label, randomised trial.
AB  - French National Agency for Research on AIDS and Viral Hepatitis (ANRS), Brazilian National STD/AIDS Program-Ministry of Health.

UI  - 24640347
TI  - Study on prevalance of diabetes mellitus in patients with T.B. under DOTS strategy.
AB  - The higher prevalence of diabetes mellitus in DOTS patients raises immediate concerns in preventing the morbidity due to both the diseases. Therefore, it is recommended that some strategy on the lines of HIV disease should be formed under DOTS for the concomitant treatment of TB and diabetes for better outcome and care.

UI  - 24623644
TI  - Tuberculosis in pediatric oncology and bone marrow transplantation patients.
AB  - Five children with malignancies (3 hematologic, 1 medulloblastoma, 1 hepatoblastoma) and one bone marrow transplant patient were treated for tuberculosis over a 30-year period. Three had pulmonary disease, 3 disseminated tuberculosis, and 1 had scrofula. Four of five had positive tuberculin skin tests, cultures were positive in 5/6 children. One child died of disseminated TB after engraftment, and one child had hepatotoxicity likely related to tuberculosis therapy. All cases were potentially preventable had they been screened due to established risk factors of foreign birth (4/6) or parental foreign birth (2/6). All children should be screened for latent tuberculosis before chemotherapy.

UI  - 24605618
TI  - [Influence of therapy with interferon inducer on the parameters of quality of life in patients with pulmonary tuberculosis].
AB  - The evaluation of quality of life using a questionnaire--Version 2 of the "SF-36 Health Survey" was performed in 144 patients with widespread pulmonary tuberculosis. The low level of "quality of life" was revealed in patients with pulmonary tuberculosis in comparison with healthy persons. It is caused by limiting physical activity, reducing the psychological component due to low vitality and mental health. By the end of the second month of chemotherapy, the changes are saved (PE, RP) and even exacerbated (RE, MN) in patients with MDR MBT. Combined therapy with Cycloferon improves physical activity of patients without MDR MBT. In this case, the mental health of the patient is perceived positively due to increasing the emotional activity, more expressed in patients without MDR MBT and minimization emotional problems related to the disease in patients with MDR MBT.

UI  - 24501203
TI  - All-trans retinoic acid-triggered antimicrobial activity against Mycobacterium tuberculosis is dependent on NPC2.
AB  - A role for vitamin A in host defense against Mycobacterium tuberculosis has been suggested through epidemiological and in vitro studies; however, the mechanism is unclear. In this study, we demonstrate that vitamin A-triggered antimicrobial activity against M. tuberculosis requires expression of NPC2. Comparison of monocytes stimulated with all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) or 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (1,25D3), the biologically active forms of vitamin A and vitamin D, respectively, indicates that ATRA and 1,25D3 induce mechanistically distinct antimicrobial activities. Stimulation of primary human monocytes with ATRA did not result in expression of the antimicrobial peptide cathelicidin, which is required for 1,25D3 antimicrobial activity. In contrast, ATRA triggered a reduction in the total cellular cholesterol concentration, whereas 1,25D3 did not. Blocking ATRA-induced cellular cholesterol reduction inhibits antimicrobial activity as well. Bioinformatic analysis of ATRA- and 1,25D3-induced gene profiles suggests that NPC2 is a key gene in ATRA-induced cholesterol regulation. Knockdown experiments demonstrate that ATRA-mediated decrease in total cellular cholesterol content and increase in lysosomal acidification are both dependent upon expression of NPC2. Expression of NPC2 was lower in caseous tuberculosis granulomas and M. tuberculosis-infected monocytes compared with normal lung and uninfected cells, respectively. Loss of NPC2 expression ablated ATRA-induced antimicrobial activity. Taken together, these results suggest that the vitamin A-mediated antimicrobial mechanism against M. tuberculosis requires NPC2-dependent expression and function, indicating a key role for cellular cholesterol regulation in the innate immune response.

UI  - 24450889
TI  - A trial of mass isoniazid preventive therapy for tuberculosis control.
AB  - Mass screening and treatment for latent tuberculosis had no significant effect on tuberculosis control in South African gold mines, despite the successful use of isoniazid in preventing tuberculosis during treatment. (Funded by the Consortium to Respond Effectively to the AIDS TB Epidemic and others; Thibela TB Current Controlled Trials number, ISRCTN63327174.).

UI  - 24437320
TI  - Role of combined zinc, vitamin A, and fish oil supplementation in childhood tuberculosis.
AB  - This objective of this study was to determine benefit of one month combined supplementation (zinc, vitamin A, fish oil) along with anti-tuberculosis drugs (ATD) on increasing serum leptin levels and decreasing tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) in children with tuberculosis (TB). A quasi experimental study was conducted on 22 children (aged 5-14 years) with a positive acid-fast bacilli (AFB) smear. The children were divided into 2 groups. A history, physical examination, anthropometric measurements, serum leptin levels, TNF-alpha levels, retinol and zinc levels were examined in all subjects before and after treatment. Nutritional supplementation and ATD were given to group I while ATD only were given to group II. The change in leptin, TNF-alpha, retinol and zinc levels were analyzed with the Mann-Whitney test, while a t-test was used to determine changes in body mass index (BMI). Group I had a higher significant increase in serum leptin levels than group II (p=0.034). Group I had a significantly greater decrease in TNF-a levels than group II (p=0.032). No significant differences in retinol or zinc levels were seen between the two, but both groups had an increase after treatment. Both groups had a significant increase in BMI (p=<0.001) post-treatment compared to pre-treatment. Supplementation with zinc, vitamin A and fish oil is associated with a significant increase in leptin levels and a significant decrease in TNF-alpha levels among children treated for TB. No significant benefit was seen in BMI among children receiving supplementation compared to those without it, although ATD resulted in a significant increase in BMI in both groups.

UI  - 24388083
TI  - Percutaneous core needle biopsies: the yield in spinal tuberculosis.
AB  - Percutaneous biopsy remains an important tool to diagnose and manage spinal TB. The yield of transpedicular biopsies in this study was comparable with international figures. Specimen decontamination prior to culture had a direct negative influence on biopsy culture yield, as did prior TB treatment.

UI  - 24365549
TI  - Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex strains and drug susceptibility in a cattle-rearing region of Cameroon.
AB  - Although the Adamaoua Region is a stock-farming area, M. tuberculosis is the predominant MTC species responsible for PTB. Anti-tuberculosis drug resistance in new and previously treated cases is well established, underscoring the need to reinforce the DOTS strategy.

UI  - 24360402
TI  - Methadone treatment improves tuberculosis treatment among hospitalized opioid dependent patients in Ukraine.
AB  - MMT integrated into inpatient TB treatment significantly improves retention in TB treatment and TB medication adherence among PWIDs. These findings call for policy change to increase the number of MMT sites in TB facilities and make MMT a low-threshold treatment option for opioid dependence in Ukraine.

UI  - 24262781
TI  - Clinical manifestations of patients with intraocular inflammation and positive QuantiFERON-TB gold in-tube test in a country nonendemic for tuberculosis.
AB  - Ocular features of patients with idiopathic uveitis and positive quantiferon were diverse, but retinal occlusive vasculitis and serpiginoid choroiditis were common. The quantiferon levels were usually highly elevated and 33% of patients exhibited lymphadenopathy, suggesting frequently the diagnosis of sarcoidosis. Ocular inflammation reacted favorably to antituberculosis treatment, although only a small minority had documented (prior) tuberculosis.

UI  - 24244364
TI  - Non-adherence to anti-tuberculosis treatment and determinant factors among patients with tuberculosis in northwest Ethiopia.
AB  - Non-adherence to anti-tuberculosis treatment was high. Forgetfulness, being in the continuation phases of chemotherapy, having symptoms of tuberculosis during the interview, and co-infected with HIV were significantly associated with non-adherence to anti-tuberculosis therapy. Special attention on adherence counseling should be given to symptomatic patients, TB/HIV co-infected patients, and those in the continuation phase of the tuberculosis therapy.

UI  - 24206012
TI  - Prevalence, characteristics, management, and outcome of pulmonary tuberculosis in HIV-infected children in the TREAT Asia pediatric HIV Observational Database (TApHOD).
AB  - A multicenter, retrospective, observational study was conducted to determine prevalence, characteristics, management, and outcome of pulmonary tuberculosis (PTB) in Asian HIV-infected children in the TREAT Asia Pediatric HIV Observational Database (TApHOD). Data on PTB episodes diagnosed during the period between 12 months before antiretroviral therapy (ART) initiation and December 31, 2009 were extracted. A total of 2678 HIV-infected children were included in TApHOD over a 13-year period; 457 developed PTB, giving a period prevalence of 17.1% (range 5.7-33.0% per country). There were a total of 484 PTB episodes; 27 children had 2 episodes each. There were 21 deaths (4.3%). One third of episodes (n=175/484) occurred after ART initiation at a median of 14.1 months (interquartile range [IQR] 2.5-28.8 months). The median (IQR) CD4+ values were 9.0% (3.0-16.0%) and 183.5 (37.8-525.0) cells/mm(3) when PTB was diagnosed. Most episodes (n=424/436, 97.3%) had abnormal radiographic findings compatible with PTB, whereas half (n=267/484, 55.2%) presented with clinical characteristics of PTB. One third of those tested (n=42/122, 34.4%) had bacteriological evidence of PTB. Of the 156 episodes (32.2%) that were accompanied with extrapulmonary TB, pleuritis was the most common manifestation (81.4%). After treatment completion, most episodes (n=396/484, 81.9%) were recorded as having positive outcomes (cured, treatment completed and child well, and improvement). The prevalence of PTB among Asian HIV-infected children in our cohort was high. Children with persistent immunosuppression remain vulnerable to PTB even after ART initiation.

UI  - 24200276
TI  - Isoniazid, rifampicin and pyrazinamide plasma concentrations 2 and 6 h post dose in patients with pulmonary tuberculosis.
AB  - The results indicate that RMP concentrations are below the reference range in most patients, while PZA is within the target range of the standard doses.

UI  - 24200269
TI  - Pharmacokinetics of rifabutin during atazanavir/ritonavir co-administration in HIV-infected TB patients in India.
AB  - Peak RBT concentration was below the lower therapeutic limit (<0.3 g/ml) in seven patients, while 10 patients had trough concentrations below the minimal inhibitory concentration against Mycobacterium tuberculosis (0.06 g/ml), suggesting that the RBT dosage may be inadequate. Prospective studies in different settings are required to arrive at the proper therapeutic dose for RBT to be used during co-administration with RTV.

UI  - 24200266
TI  - Incidence of tuberculosis in HIV-infected patients in Spain: the impact of treatment for LTBI.
AB  - TLTBI is effective in preventing the development of TB in HIV-infected patients, particularly in those who were TST-positive.

UI  - 24200262
TI  - Towards the WHO target of zero childhood tuberculosis deaths: an analysis of mortality in 13 locations in Africa and Asia.
AB  - Strategies to eliminate childhood TB deaths should include addressing the high-risk groups identified in this study, enhanced TB prevention, universal HIV testing and the development of a rapid diagnostic test.

UI  - 24192671
TI  - Multicentric analysis of childhood tuberculosis in Turkey.
AB  - Only a few series of pediatric tuberculosis (TB) have been reported in the last 20 years. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the clinical, radiological, microbiological, and treatment characteristics of childhood TB. A total of 539 children with childhood TB diagnosed over a 12-year period (1994-2005) in 16 different centers in Turkey participated in the study. The medical records of all childhood TB patients were investigated. A total of 539 children (274 males, 265 females) with childhood TB aged 10 days-17 years participated in the study. Age distribution was nearly equal among all age groups. We detected the index case in 39.8% of the patients. More than one index case was detected in 17.3% of the patients. A minimum 15-mm induration is accepted on tuberculin skin test (TST) following Bacillus Calmette-Gurin (BCG) vaccination. The TST was positive in 55.3% of the patients. Acid-fast bacillus smear was positive in 133, and polymerase chain reaction for Mycobacterium tuberculosis was positive in 45 patients. In 75 patients (13.9%), cultures yielded M. tuberculosis. One hundred fifty-one patients (28%) did not present for followup, and families of 5 patients (0.9%) discontinued the treatment. Pulmonary TB (n=285) and meningeal TB (n=85) were the most frequent diseases. In 29% of the patients, there was poor adherence to treatment or patients were lost to follow-up. We have demonstrated that household contact screening procedures play a major and important role, especially considering the high ratio of cases with contact index cases. We also recommend that the positive TST values should be reviewed according to the local cut-off data and should be specified in as many countries as possible. In view of the considerably high percentages of patients lost to follow-up and treatment discontinuation observed in our study, we suggest that application of directly observed treatment short-course (DOTS) is preferable.

UI  - 24159790
TI  - [Effectiveness of immunomodulating therapy of pulmonary tuberculosis with cycloferon].
AB  - Cycloferon was used to treat newly diagnosed, recurrent and long-standing pulmonary TB. The dose of 7,5 g combined with antibacterial therapy caused no complications. The effectiveness of this therapy based on the generally-accepted criteria was significantly higher than standard treatment but varied depending on the character of pathological process. It is recommended to use cycloferon in the intense phase of the basal treatment.

UI  - 24136296
TI  - Matrix metalloproteinases and tissue damage in HIV-tuberculosis immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome.
AB  - The HIV-TB-associated immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome (TB-IRIS) can complicate combined treatments for HIV-1 and TB. Little is known about tissue damage in TB-IRIS. Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) degrade components of the extracellular matrix and consequently may play a role in such immunopathology. Here we investigated the involvement of MMPs in TB-IRIS. We determined MMP transcript abundance and secreted protein in Mycobacterium tuberculosis stimulated PBMCs from 22 TB-IRIS patients and 22 non-IRIS controls. We also measured MMP protein levels in corresponding serum and the effect of prednisone--which reduces the duration of symptoms in IRIS patients--or placebo treatment on MMP transcript and circulating MMP protein levels. PBMCs from TB-IRIS had increased MMP-1, -3, -7, and -10 transcript levels when compared with those of controls at either 6 or 24 h. Similarly, MMP-1, -3, -7, and -10 protein secretion in stimulated cultures was higher in TB-IRIS than in controls. Serum MMP-7 concentration was elevated in TB-IRIS and 2 weeks of corticosteroid therapy decreased this level, although not significantly. TB-IRIS is associated with a distinct pattern of MMP gene and protein activation. Modulation of dysregulated MMP activity may represent a novel therapeutic approach to alleviate TB-IRIS in HIV-TB patients undergoing treatment.

UI  - 24125456
TI  - First proficiency testing of second-line anti-tuberculosis drug susceptibility testing in 12 provinces of China.
AB  - Eight (66.7%) participating laboratories met the set requirement criteria; however, DST in four (33.3%) laboratories requires greater attention. Of the four drugs tested, the results for KM were lower than those for the other drugs. External quality assessment can lead to effective evaluation of laboratory performance in SL DST.

UI  - 24125455
TI  - Proficiency of drug susceptibility testing of Mycobacterium tuberculosis against pyrazinamide: the Swedish experience.
AB  - In Sweden, using panel testing, differences were seen in the proficiency of TB laboratories in correctly identifying PZA susceptibility. Improved results were noted in the third round; PZA has therefore been included in yearly proficiency testing.

UI  - 24125447
TI  - Monitoring changes in anti-tuberculosis treatment: associated factors determined at the time of diagnosis.
AB  - Factors associated with changes in the initial anti-tuberculosis regimen should be considered for rigorous follow-up. Results obtained through individualised treatment provided by specialists were good despite the complexity of the cases treated.

UI  - 24125438
TI  - Role of the QuantiFERON-TB Gold In-Tube test in the diagnosis of intrathoracic childhood tuberculosis.
AB  - In high-burden countries, QFT-GIT is comparable to TST and offers no added advantage in the diagnosis of childhood intrathoracic TB.

UI  - 24120216
TI  - Early changes in hepatic function among HIV-tuberculosis patients treated with nevirapine or efavirenz along with rifampin-based anti-tuberculosis therapy.
AB  - Hepatotoxicity is not a major concern when HIV-infected TB patients, with normal baseline liver function initiate treatment for both infections simultaneously.

UI  - 24112411
TI  - Diabetes mellitus and tuberculosis: pattern of tuberculosis, two-month smear conversion and treatment outcomes in Guangzhou, China.
AB  - Diabetes mellitus in new smear-positive patients with PTB was associated with failure to sputum smear convert at 2 months and adverse treatment outcomes of loss-to-follow-up and failure. Further research is needed to understand the reasons for these findings and to determine whether the current length of treatment of 6 months is adequate.

UI  - 24103082
TI  - Healthcare provision for HIV co-infected tuberculosis patients in rural Zambia: an observational cohort study at primary care centers.
AB  - HIV testing for TB patients has been successfully scaled up. However referrals of co-infected patients still remain a challenge due to poor linkage between TB and HIV healthcare services. Committed healthcare workers, a well-organized health services system and patient education are urgently required to ensure a higher rate of referral of TB/HIV co-infected patients for appropriate care.

UI  - 24099345
TI  - Efficacy and safety of thrice weekly DOTS in tuberculosis patients with and without HIV co-infection: an observational study.
AB  - NCT No. 00698334.

UI  - 24096631
TI  - Paradoxical tuberculosis-associated immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome after early initiation of antiretroviral therapy in a randomized clinical trial.
AB  - Shortening the delay between tuberculosis treatment onset and ART initiation to 2 weeks was associated with an increased risk of developing TB-IRIS. However, TB-IRIS was generally easily manageable. Given the marked reported survival advantage of early ART initiation after tuberculosis treatment onset, these data indicate that fear of TB-IRIS should not be an impediment to early ART in adults with advanced immunodeficiency in resource-limited, high burden settings.

UI  - 24064441
TI  - High treatment success in children treated for multidrug-resistant tuberculosis: an observational cohort study.
AB  - A confirmed diagnosis of MDR-TB is not possible in all cases but this should not impede the treatment of MDR-TB in children. More than 90% of children with MDR-TB can be successfully treated. Non-severe disease could be successfully treated with reduced treatment duration.

UI  - 24020603
TI  - The treatment journey of a patient with multidrug-resistant tuberculosis in South Africa: is it patient-centred?
AB  - To improve the treatment of patients co-infected with multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) and the human immunodeficiency virus, we measured the relationship between treatment outcomes and hospital performance at four decentralised MDR-TB sites in South Africa. We describe hospital performance from the patient's perspective by the use of a graphic that visually represents a patient's treatment journey. The graphic was used to report study findings to study sites and as a catalyst for a quality improvement process.

UI  - 24025390
TI  - Barriers to tuberculosis care for drug users in two provinces of China: a qualitative study.
AB  - These findings suggest that barriers to TB care for drug users are associated not only with the drug users themselves, but also with the providers and societal factors. Health professionals and policy makers should be aware of these barriers in China.

UI  - 24025378
TI  - Drug-resistant tuberculosis in children in Thailand.
AB  - The high rate of DR-TB underscores the importance of routine DST. History of treatment and drug susceptibility in source cases was useful in guiding initial treatment in children.

UI  - 24015285
TI  - Strategy to better select HIV-infected individuals for latent TB treatment in BCG-vaccinated population.
AB  - Adopting positive results of the TST and T-SPOT.TB to screen LTBI among BCG-vaccinated HIV-infected individuals might be feasible. Number needed to treat for isoniazid preventive therapy could be reduced significantly by using dual positive strategy.

UI  - 23990572
TI  - Dependence of efavirenz- and rifampicin-isoniazid-based antituberculosis treatment drug-drug interaction on CYP2B6 and NAT2 genetic polymorphisms: ANRS 12154 study in Cambodia.
AB  - We investigated the population pharmacokinetics and pharmacogenetics of efavirenz in 307 patients coinfected with human immunodeficiency virus and tuberculosis and included in the Cambodian Early vs Late Initiation of Antiretrovirals trial (CAMELIA) in Cambodia. Efavirenz (600 mg/d) and stavudine plus lamivudine were administered in addition to standard antituberculosis treatment, including rifampicin and isoniazid. Blood samples were obtained a mean of 14 hours after efavirenz intake at weeks 2 and 6 after initiation of efavirenz and weeks 22 (efavirenz plus antituberculosis drugs) and 50 (efavirenz alone) after initiation of antituberculosis treatment. Ten patients participated in an extensive pharmacokinetic study after week 50. CYP2B6 G516T and C485-18T polymorphisms were the most significant covariates, with weight showing a significant minor effect. Change in efavirenz apparent clearance in patients taking both efavirenz and antituberculosis treatment was highly dependent on NAT2 polymorphism, as a possible surrogate of isoniazid exposure. Patients carrying the CYP2B6 516 TT genotype and slow-acetylation NAT2 phenotype had the lowest efavirenz apparent clearance. These data suggest that the inducing effect of rifampicin is counterbalanced by a concentration-dependant inhibitory effect of isoniazid on efavirenz clearance.

UI  - 23967066
TI  - L-arginine and vitamin D adjunctive therapies in pulmonary tuberculosis: a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov. Registry number: NCT00677339.

UI  - 23928175
TI  - Sociodemographic basis of tuberculosis knowledge in Bolivia.
AB  - 

UI  - 23928169
TI  - Predictors of delay in the diagnosis and treatment of suspected tuberculosis in HIV co-infected patients in South Africa.
AB  - Patient delay in seeking care for TB in this high HIV prevalence setting is substantial. Factors identified with delay could be used to develop interventions to improve care seeking and earlier diagnosis of TB.

UI  - 23928167
TI  - Can a peer-based intervention impact adherence to the treatment of latent tuberculous infection?
AB  - The peer-based intervention was not significantly associated with LTBI treatment completion, but was associated with greater adherence. Findings suggest the importance of interventions to support adherence that target early non-adherence with LTBI treatment, particularly in the first 2 months, when there is a substantial risk of default.

UI  - 23927582
TI  - Comparison of levofloxacin versus moxifloxacin for multidrug-resistant tuberculosis.
AB  - The choice of LFX or MXF for treatment of patients with MDR-TB may not affect sputum culture conversion at 3 months of treatment. Clinical trial registered with www.clinicaltrials.gov (NCT 01055145).

UI  - 23925379
TI  - Higher rates of AIDS during the first year of antiretroviral therapy among migrants: the importance of tuberculosis.
AB  - During the first year of ART, HIV-positive migrants had higher rates of ADEs than nonmigrants. Tuberculosis was the most common ADE among migrants, highlighting the importance of screening for tuberculosis prior to ART initiation in this population.

UI  - 23916547
TI  - Risk factors for multidrug resistance among previously treated patients with tuberculosis in eastern China: a case-control study.
AB  - Particular clinical diagnostic results, such as more than three TB foci in the lung, non-standard or irregular therapy, and adverse effects of anti-TB medication, were found to be associated with MDR-TB in previously treated TB patients. High quality directly observed treatment should be strengthened to ensure that the previously treated patients can receive standard and regular regimens.

UI  - 23843980
TI  - Randomized clinical trial of thrice-weekly 4-month moxifloxacin or gatifloxacin containing regimens in the treatment of new sputum positive pulmonary tuberculosis patients.
AB  - Clinical Trials Registry of India CTRI/2012/10/003060.

UI  - 23836530
TI  - Prophylaxis for latent tuberculosis infection prior to antitumor necrosis factor therapy in low-risk elderly patients with rheumatoid arthritis: a decision analysis.
AB  - Withholding prophylaxis prior to anti-TNF therapy may be reasonable for low-risk elderly RA patients with a TST finding of 59 mm, although the decision is sensitive to patient preferences. For patients age <61 years from a higher risk country, or with a TST finding >10 mm, prophylaxis is preferred.

UI  - 23827859
TI  - Xpert MTB/RIF in pleural fluid for the diagnosis of tuberculosis.
AB  - An automated nucleic acid amplification assay that simultaneously identifies Mycobacterium tuberculosis and rifampicin resistance, the Xpert MTB/RIF test, has undergone extensive evaluation in sputum samples. Our aim was to define its diagnostic accuracy when performed on pleural fluid specimens. In 67 patients with pleural effusions, of whom half had tuberculous pleuritis, Xpert yielded 15% sensitivity and 100% specificity in the detection of tuberculosis (TB). Positive Xpert results tended to be more common in patients with microbiologically confirmed TB. Due to its low sensitivity, Xpert testing of pleural fluids has a limited role in the work-up of pleural effusions.

UI  - 23827656
TI  - Outcomes of integrated treatment for tuberculosis and HIV in children at the primary health care level.
AB  - Integrated, nurse-centered, pediatric TB-HIV treatment at the PHC level in highly resource-limited settings is feasible and effective in achieving successful outcomes, including high ART uptake, low mortality, and immunological and clinical improvement.

UI  - 23816410
TI  - Impact of tuberculosis treatment on CD4 cell count, HIV RNA, and p24 antigen in patients with HIV and tuberculosis.
AB  - We found no significant changes in CD4, HIV RNA, or p24 antigen levels during 8 months of TB treatment among TB/HIV co-infected individuals, who did not receive antiretroviral treatment. The markers were unaffected by a strong improvement in TBscore and all three markers showed predictive capacity for mortality risk.

UI  - 23809978
TI  - The double burden.
AB  - One third of the world's population is latently infected with Mycobacterium tuberculosis, and with the lifestyle changes succeeding the on-going urbanization, populations already burdened by tuberculosis are experiencing a dramatic increase in chronic diseases, with diabetes being a serious challenge. Tuberculosis and diabetes are not only becoming co-existing diseases. In fact, the diseases interact, and there is evidence to suggest that especially diabetes disease increases the susceptibility for developing active tuberculosis disease. Furthermore, it is plausible that tuberculosis leads to, either transient or permanent, impairment of the glucose metabolism, which ultimately will turn into diabetes. A number of studies from the Americas, Europe, Asia, and, most lately, from sub-Saharan Africa have reported strong association between tuberculosis and diabetes; on average, the estimated risk of active tuberculosis is thrice as high among people with diabetes. The study from sub-Saharan Africa was conducted in Tanzania and is the basis of this thesis. Based on available evidence on the association between tuberculosis and diabetes, the primary aim of the study was to assess the role of diabetes for tuberculosis risk, manifestations, treatment outcomes and survival in a Tanzanian population of tuberculosis patients and non-tuberculosis neighbourhood controls. The study was conducted in Mwanza City in northern Tanzania, with a population exceeding half a million inhabitants, with tuberculosis and HIV being common infections in the region, but with little knowledge about the prevalence of diabetes. We recruited newly diagnosed pulmonary tuberculosis patients from spring 2006 and continuously till the fall 2009, with all participating in a nutritional intervention running in parallel with the medical tuberculosis treatment. All participants underwent diabetes and HIV testing as well as a series of measurements such as anthropometric, clinical and paraclinical parameters. The population was followed up during treatment (2 and 5 months) to assess treatment outcome as well as after one year to assess their survival status. Based on data from 1,250 tuberculosis patients and 350 neighbourhood controls, we found that 38 and 21%, respectively, had impaired glycaemia, and that the prevalence of diabetes was 17 and 9% among tuberculosis patients and controls, respectively. This difference in prevalence between patients and controls was equivalent to an adjusted odds ratio of more than four, indicating a strong association between tuberculosis and diabetes. Furthermore, we found that diabetes was associated with tuberculosis among both participants with or without HIV co-infection. Despite the strong association, diabetes had only moderate clinical implications when the tuberculosis patients initiated the tuberculosis treatment; the patients with diabetes co-morbidity had a minor elevation in the immune response and more frequently reported to have fever. Furthermore, diabetes did not seem to delay time to sputum conversion during treatment. Nevertheless, diabetes co-morbidity led to impaired treatment outcome with slower recovery of weight and haemoglobin and a more than four times higher mortality rate within the initial phase of tuberculosis treatment. In conclusion, in the African region, the double burden of tuberculosis and diabetes is becoming a major health problem. Although the tuberculosis incidence has stabilized during the last decade, the increasing incidence of diabetes will possibly interfere with tuberculosis control and may, consequently, make the tuberculosis incidence increase again. Future research strategies should focus on enhanced diagnostic tools to identify tuberculosis patients with diabetes co-morbidity, and on the role of disease-disease, drug-disease and drug-drug interactions between tuberculosis and diabetes diseases and treatments.

UI  - 23792142
TI  - Phenotypic interaction of simultaneously administered isoniazid and phenytoin in patients with tuberculous meningitis or tuberculoma having seizures.
AB  - Treatment of tuberculous meningitis or tuberculoma has become complicated because of adverse drug interactions found amongst antitubercular and anticonvulsant drugs. The aim of the study is to evaluate the effect of simultaneously administered isoniazid (300 mg/day) and phenytoin (300 mg/day) on 60 patients with tuberculous meningitis or tuberculoma having seizures. Plasma samples were analyzed for isoniazid, acetylated-isoniazid (AcINH) and phenytoin levels by high performance liquid chromatography at 3h of drugs administration and patients were classified as rapid or slow acetylator on the basis of metabolic ratio of isoniazid (Rm) and percentage of acetylated-isoniazid (%AcINH). Out of 60 patients studied, 23 were slow acetylators and 37 were rapid acetylators. Slow acetylators revealed higher plasma isoniazid levels and lower plasma AcINH levels, metabolic ratio and %AcINH as compared to rapid acetylators. Plasma phenytoin levels were found to be significantly higher (above therapeutic range) in slow acetylators as compared to rapid acetylators. Plasma phenytoin concentration was moderately strong, negatively correlated with metabolic ratio (r=-0.439, P<0.001) and %AcINH (r=-0.729, P<0.001). Eight comatose patients (34.8%) also showed significantly higher plasma phenytoin levels. Our results suggest that assessment of acetylator status and plasma phenytoin level is critical for dose optimization of isoniazid and phenytoin and to predict the patients at risk of intoxication.

UI  - 23774436
TI  - Evaluation of initial and steady-state gatifloxacin pharmacokinetics and dose in pulmonary tuberculosis patients by using monte carlo simulations.
AB  - A 4-month regimen of gatifloxacin with rifampin, isoniazid, and pyrazinamide is being evaluated for the treatment of tuberculosis in a phase 3 randomized controlled trial (OFLOTUB). A prior single-dose study found that gatifloxacin exposure increased by 14% in the combination. The aims of the study are to evaluate the initial and steady-state pharmacokinetics of gatifloxacin when daily doses are given to patients with newly diagnosed drug-sensitive pulmonary tuberculosis as part of a combination regimen and to evaluate the gatifloxacin dose with respect to the probability of attaining a pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic target. We describe the population pharmacokinetics of gatifloxacin from the first dose to a median of 28 days in 169 adults enrolled in the OFLOTUB trial in Benin, Guinea, Senegal, and South Africa. The probability of achieving a ratio of 125 for the area under the concentration time curve to infinity (AUC0-) for the free fraction of gatifloxacin over the MIC (fAUC/MIC) was investigated using Monte Carlo simulations. The median AUC0- of 41.2 g  h/ml decreased on average by 14.3% (90% confidence interval [CI], -90.5% to +61.5%) following multiple 400-mg daily doses. At steady state, 90% of patients achieved an fAUC/MIC of 125 only when the MIC was <0.125 g/ml. We conclude that systemic exposure to gatifloxacin declines with repeated daily 400-mg doses when used together with rifampin, isoniazid, and pyrazinamide, thus compensating for any initial increase in gatifloxacin levels due to a drug interaction. (The OFLOTUB study has been registered at ClinicalTrials.gov under registration no. NCT00216385.).

UI  - 23758662
TI  - Impact of a novel molecular TB diagnostic system in patients at high risk of TB mortality in rural South Africa (Uchwepheshe): study protocol for a cluster randomised trial.
AB  - Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN18642314; South African National Clinical Trials Registry DOH-27-0711-3568.

UI  - 23750554
TI  - Impact of diabetes mellitus on clinical parameters and treatment outcomes of newly diagnosed pulmonary tuberculosis patients in Thailand.
AB  - Plasma glucose levels should be monitored in all newly diagnosed PTB patients and a similar treatment regimen should be prescribed to PTB patients with DM and those without DM in high TB-burden countries.

UI  - 23743310
TI  - Changes in QuantiFERON-TB Gold In-Tube results during treatment for tuberculous infection.
AB  - Frequent within-subject variability in QFT-GIT responses, not associated with LTBI treatment, makes it difficult for clinicians to interpret QFT-GIT conversions and reversions.

UI  - 23735536
TI  - A qualitative assessment of challenges to tuberculosis management and prevention in Northern Ethiopia.
AB  - Health care providers in the Northern Ethiopian regions of Tigray and Amhara identified many challenges to effectively preventing, diagnosing and treating TB. These challenges are complicated by severe resource constraints and challenges in attracting and retaining providers in government hospitals in centers outside Addis Ababa.

UI  - 23733477
TI  - Prevalence and genetic characterization of second-line drug-resistant and extensively drug-resistant Mycobacterium tuberculosis in Rural China.
AB  - This study aimed to investigate the prevalence of resistance to second-line antituberculosis (anti-TB) drugs and its association with resistance-related mutations in Mycobacterium tuberculosis isolated in China. In the present study, we collected 380 isolates from a population-based study in China and tested the drug susceptibility to first- and selected second-line drugs. These results were compared with polymorphisms in the DNA sequences of genes associated with drug resistance and MIC values of the studied second-line drugs. Of 43 multidrug-resistant M. tuberculosis isolates, 13 showed resistance to fluoroquinolones or injectable second-line drugs (preextensively drug-resistant TB [pre-XDR-TB]), and 4 were resistant to both and thus defined as extensively drug-resistant TB (XDR-TB). Age and previous TB therapy, including use of second-line drugs, were two independent factors associated with increased resistance to both first- and second-line drugs. Molecular analysis identified the most frequent mutations in the resistance-associated genes: D94G in gyrA (29.1%) and A1401G in rrs (30.8%). Meanwhile, all 4 XDR-TB isolates had a mutation in gyrA, and 3 of them carried the A1401G mutation in rrs. Mutations in gyrA and rrs were associated with high-level resistance to fluoroquinolones and the second-line injectable drugs. In addition to the identification of resistance-associated mutations and development of a rapid molecular test to diagnose the second-line drug resistance, it should be a priority to strictly regulate the administration of second-line drugs to maintain their efficacy to treat multidrug-resistant TB.

UI  - 23733467
TI  - Efficacy and safety of metronidazole for pulmonary multidrug-resistant tuberculosis.
AB  - Pulmonary lesions from active tuberculosis patients are thought to contain persistent, nonreplicating bacilli that arise from hypoxic stress. Metronidazole, approved for anaerobic infections, has antituberculosis activity against anoxic bacilli in vitro and in some animal models and may target persistent, nonreplicating bacilli. In this double-blind, placebo-controlled trial, pulmonary multidrug-resistant tuberculosis subjects were randomly assigned to receive metronidazole (500 mg thrice daily) or placebo for 8 weeks in addition to an individualized background regimen. Outcomes were measured radiologically (change on high-resolution computed tomography [HRCT]), microbiologically (time to sputum smear and culture conversion), and clinically (status 6 months after stopping therapy). Enrollment was stopped early due to excessive peripheral neuropathies in the metronidazole arm. Among 35 randomized subjects, 31 (15 metronidazole, 16 placebo) were included in the modified intent-to-treat analysis. There were no significant differences by arm in improvement of HRCT lesions from baseline to 2 or 6 months. More subjects in the metronidazole arm converted their sputum smear (P = 0.04) and liquid culture (P = 0.04) to negative at 1 month, but these differences were lost by 2 months. Overall, 81% showed clinical success 6 months after stopping therapy, with no differences by arm. However, 8/16 (50%) of subjects in the metronidazole group and 2/17 (12%) of those in the placebo group developed peripheral neuropathy. Subjects who received metronidazole were 4.3-fold (95% confidence interval [CI], 1.1 to 17.1) more likely to develop peripheral neuropathies than subjects who received placebo. Metronidazole may have increased early sputum smear and culture conversion but was too neurotoxic to use over the longer term. Newer nitroimidazoles with both aerobic and anaerobic activity, now in clinical trials, may increase the sterilizing potency of future treatment regimens.

UI  - 23714270
TI  - Economic support to improve tuberculosis treatment outcomes in South Africa: a pragmatic cluster-randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Our pragmatic trial has shown that, in the real world setting of public sector clinics in South Africa, economic support to patients with tuberculosis does not significantly improve outcomes on treatment. However, the low fidelity to the delivery of our voucher meant that a third of eligible patients did not receive it. Among patients in intervention clinics who received the voucher at least once, treatment success rates were significantly improved. Further operational research is needed to explore how best to ensure the consistent and appropriate delivery of such support to those eligible to receive it.

UI  - 23691062
TI  - Paradoxical tuberculosis immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome (TB-IRIS) in HIV patients with culture confirmed pulmonary tuberculosis in India and the potential role of IL-6 in prediction.
AB  - Paradoxical TB-IRIS frequently complicates HIV-TB therapy in India. IL-6 and CRP may assist in predicting IRIS events and serve as potential targets for immune interventions.

UI  - 23689722
TI  - Clinical validation of the analysis of linezolid and clarithromycin in oral fluid of patients with multidrug-resistant tuberculosis.
AB  - Linezolid plays an increasingly important role in the treatment of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB). However, patients should be carefully monitored due to time- and dose-dependent toxicity. Clarithromycin plays a more modest role. Therapeutic drug monitoring may contribute to assessment of treatment regimens, helping to reduce toxicity while maintaining adequate drug exposure. Oral fluid sampling could provide a welcome alternative in cases where conventional plasma sampling is not possible or desirable. The aim of this study was to clinically validate the analysis of linezolid and clarithromycin and its metabolite hydroxyclarithromycin in oral fluid of patients with multidrug-resistant tuberculosis. Serum and oral fluid samples were simultaneously obtained and analyzed by using validated methods, after extensive cross-validation between the two matrices. Passing-Bablok regressions and Bland-Altman analysis showed that oral fluid analysis of linezolid and clarithromycin appeared to be suitable for therapeutic drug monitoring in MDR-TB patients. No correction factor is needed for the interpretation of linezolid oral fluid concentrations with a ratio of the linezolid concentration in serum to that in oral fluid of 0.97 (95% confidence interval [CI], 0.92 to 1.02). However, the clarithromycin concentration serum/clarithromycin concentration in oral fluid ratio is 3.07 (95% CI, 2.45 to 3.69). Analysis of hydroxyclarithromycin in oral fluid was not possible in this study due to a nonlinear relationship between the concentration in serum and that in oral fluid. In conclusion, the analysis of linezolid (no correction factor) and clarithromycin (correction factor of 3) in oral fluid is applicable for therapeutic drug monitoring in cases of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis as an alternative to conventional serum sampling. Easy sampling using a noninvasive technique may facilitate therapeutic drug monitoring for specific patient categories.

UI  - 23676174
TI  - Current epidemiology of childhood tuberculous meningitis in Greece: a 10-year population-based study.
AB  - 

UI  - 23613834
TI  - Induced sputum MMP-1, -3 & -8 concentrations during treatment of tuberculosis.
AB  - MMPs are elevated in TB patients and associate with disease severity. This matrix-degrading phenotype resolves rapidly with treatment. The MMP profile at presentation correlates with a delayed treatment response.

UI  - 23590701
TI  - Oral intake of phenylbutyrate with or without vitamin D3 upregulates the cathelicidin LL-37 in human macrophages: a dose finding study for treatment of tuberculosis.
AB  - The results demonstrate that 500mg b.d. PB with 5000IU o.d. vitamin D3 is the optimal dose for the induction of LL-37 in macrophages and lymphocytes and intracellular killing of Mtb by macrophages. Hence, this dose has potential application in the treatment of TB and is now being used in a clinical trial of adults with active pulmonary TB (NCT01580007).

UI  - 23575324
TI  - Tuberculosis patients in primary care do not start treatment. What role do health system delays play?
AB  - Initial loss to follow-up should be reported as part of the TB programme to ensure that patients are initiated on treatment to prevent transmission within communities.

UI  - 23571542
TI  - Model-based estimates of the effects of efavirenz on bedaquiline pharmacokinetics and suggested dose adjustments for patients coinfected with HIV and tuberculosis.
AB  - Safe, effective concomitant treatment regimens for tuberculosis (TB) and HIV infection are urgently needed. Bedaquiline (BDQ) is a promising new anti-TB drug, and efavirenz (EFV) is a commonly used antiretroviral. Due to EFV's induction of cytochrome P450 3A4, the metabolic enzyme responsible for BDQ biotransformation, the drugs are expected to interact. Based on data from a phase I, single-dose pharmacokinetic study, a nonlinear mixed-effects model characterizing BDQ pharmacokinetics and interaction with multiple-dose EFV was developed. BDQ pharmacokinetics were best described by a 3-compartment disposition model with absorption through a dynamic transit compartment model. Metabolites M2 and M3 were described by 2-compartment models with clearance of BDQ and M2, respectively, as input. Impact of induction was described as an instantaneous change in clearance 1 week after initialization of EFV treatment and estimated for all compounds. The model predicts average steady-state concentrations of BDQ and M2 to be reduced by 52% (relative standard error [RSE], 3.7%) with chronic coadministration. A range of models with alternative structural assumptions regarding onset of induction effect and fraction metabolized resulted in similar estimates of the typical reduction and did not offer a markedly better fit to data. Simulations to investigate alternative regimens mitigating the estimated interaction effect were performed. The results suggest that simple adjustments of the standard regimen during EFV coadministration can prevent reduced exposure to BDQ without increasing exposures to M2. However, exposure to M3 would increase. Evaluation in clinical trials of adjusted regimens is necessary to ensure appropriate dosing for HIV-infected TB patients on an EFV-based regimen.

UI  - 23546935
TI  - Clinical benefit of delamanid (OPC-67683) in the treatment of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis patients in China.
AB  - The cure rates are much lower for multidrug-resistant (MDR) tuberculosis (TB) patients. Delamanid (OPC-67683) has been evaluated in phase-II MDR-TB clinical trials. Herein, we reviewed MDR-TB cases in which treatment regimens, with/without delamanid, were administered. Thirty-eight patients were enrolled; 26 received delamanid-containing regimens (treatment group) while 12 received placebo-containing regimens (control group) for 56 days. Data regarding clinical/radio-microbiological characteristics, drug tolerability, and treatment outcomes were collected. We found that all patients had isolates resistant to a median of 5 (range 2-7) drugs; 24 (92.3%) patients in treatment group and 11 (91.7%) in control group had cavities. Culture conversion was obtained in 32 pulmonary TB cases (median 74.5 days). At data censure, 30/38 patients successfully completed therapy with documented negative cultures for at least 18 months before the end of treatment. Two patients (5 consecutive negative cultures) are still on treatment. Six patients had poor outcome (3 failures/2 lost/1 death). In 13 patients, adverse events were observed that included mental disorder, QT interval prolongation, and increased blood cortisol whereas only 3 patients stopped delamanid treatment because of adverse events. It was, therefore, concluded that delamanid was well-tolerated, had low rates of discontinuation, and could be effective for treating MDR-TB.

UI  - 23539943
TI  - Thai health education program for improving TB migrant's compliance.
AB  - The tuberculosis treatment and care program, and the associated health education interventions enabled migrants to complete the treatment regimen and achieve treatment success. It could also help TB staff develop an appropriate program and clear understanding of TB control among migrants. It is recommended that this type of information and health education program be used in other hospitals and healthcare settings providing TB services for migrants throughout the nation.

UI  - 23529740
TI  - Phase I, single-dose, dose-escalating study of inhaled dry powder capreomycin: a new approach to therapy of drug-resistant tuberculosis.
AB  - Multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) threatens global TB control. The lengthy treatment includes one of the injectable drugs kanamycin, amikacin, and capreomycin, usually for the first 6 months. These drugs have potentially serious toxicities, and when given as intramuscular injections, dosing can be painful. Advances in particulate drug delivery have led to the formulation of capreomycin as the first antituberculosis drug available as a microparticle dry powder for inhalation and clinical study. Delivery by aerosol may result in successful treatment with lower doses. Here we report a phase I, single-dose, dose-escalating study aimed at demonstrating safety and tolerability in healthy subjects and measuring pharmacokinetic (PK) parameters. Twenty healthy adults (n = 5 per group) were recruited to self-administer a single dose of inhaled dry powder capreomycin (25-mg, 75-mg, 150-mg, or 300-mg nominal dose) using a simple, handheld delivery device. Inhalations were well tolerated by all subjects. The most common adverse event was mild to moderate transient cough, in five subjects. There were no changes in lung function, audiometry, or laboratory parameters. Capreomycin was rapidly absorbed after inhalation. Systemic concentrations were detected in each dose group within 20 min. Peak and mean plasma concentrations of capreomycin were dose proportional. Serum concentrations exceeded 2 g/ml (MIC for Mycobacterium tuberculosis) following the highest dose; the half-life (t1/2) was 4.8  1.0 h. A novel inhaled microparticle dry powder formulation of capreomycin was well tolerated. A single 300-mg dose rapidly achieved serum drug concentrations above the MIC for Mycobacterium tuberculosis, suggesting the potential of inhaled therapy as part of an MDR-TB treatment regimen.

UI  - 23520311
TI  - Clarithromycin increases linezolid exposure in multidrug-resistant tuberculosis patients.
AB  - The use of linezolid for the treatment of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis is limited by dose- and time-dependent toxicity. Recently, we reported a case of pharmacokinetic drug-drug interaction between linezolid and clarithromycin that resulted in increased linezolid exposure. The aim of this prospective pharmacokinetic study is to quantify the effect of clarithromycin on the exposure of linezolid. Subjects were included in an open-label, single-centre, single-arm, fixed-order pharmacokinetic interaction study. All subjects received 300 mg linezolid twice daily during the entire study, consecutively co-administered with 250 mg and 500 mg clarithromycin once daily. Steady-state serum curves of linezolid and clarithromycin were analysed using validated methods, and differences between pharmacokinetic parameters were calculated. Linezolid exposure increased by a median (interquartile range) of 44% (23-102%, p=0.043) after co-administration of 500 mg clarithromycin (n=5) compared to baseline, whereas 250 mg clarithromycin had no statistically significant effect. Co-administration was well tolerated by most patients; none experienced severe adverse effects. One patient reported common toxicity criteria grade 2 gastrointestinal adverse events. In this study, we showed that clarithromycin significantly increased linezolid serum exposure after combining clarithromycin with linezolid in multidrug-resistant tuberculosis patients. The drug-drug interaction is possibly P-glycoprotein-mediated. Due to large interpatient variability, therapeutic drug monitoring is advisable to determine individual effect size.

UI  - 23486643
TI  - Clinical effects of gemifloxacin on the delay of tuberculosis treatment.
AB  - Although gemifloxacin has low in vitro activity against Mycobacterium tuberculosis, the effect of gemifloxacin on the delay of tuberculosis (TB) treatment has not been validated in a clinical setting. The study group included patients with culture-confirmed pulmonary TB who initially received gemifloxacin for suspected community-acquired pneumonia (CAP). Two control groups contained patients treated with other fluoroquinolones or nonfluoroquinolone antibiotics. Sixteen cases were treated with gemifloxacin for suspected CAP before TB diagnosis. Sixteen and 32 patients were treated with other fluoroquinolones and nonfluoroquinolones, respectively. The median period from the initiation of antibiotics to the administration of anti-TB medication was nine days in the gemifloxacin group, which was significantly different from the other fluoroquinolones group (35 days). The median times for the nonfluoroquinolone group and the gemifloxacin group were not significantly different. There were no significant differences between the gemifloxacin and other fluoroquinolone group in terms of symptomatic and radiographic improvements. However, the frequency of radiographic improvement in the other fluoroquinolones group tended to be higher than in the gemifloxacin group. Gemifloxacin might be the preferred fluoroquinolone for treating CAP, to alleviate any concerns about delaying TB treatment.

UI  - 23485382
TI  - Sex disparities in tuberculosis suspect evaluation: a cross-sectional analysis in rural Uganda.
AB  - Strategies to ensure that women receive appropriate TB evaluation could provide a valuable opportunity for increasing case detection while also promoting equitable and universal access to care.

UI  - 23485381
TI  - Acceptance of treatment for latent tuberculosis infection: prospective cohort study in the United States and Canada.
AB  - This is the first prospective multisite study to examine predictors of LTBI treatment acceptance in general clinic populations. Greater efforts should be made to increase acceptance among health care workers, those previously recommended for treatment and those who expect problems with LTBI medicines. Ensuring convenient clinic schedules and TB education to increase knowledge could be important for ensuring acceptance.

UI  - 23479321
TI  - Systemic immune activation and microbial translocation in dual HIV/tuberculosis-infected subjects.
AB  - During HIV/tuberculosis, systemic immune activation is dissociated from microbial translocation. Changes in circulating sCD14 and LPS are dependent on CD4 T-cell count.

UI  - 23459487
TI  - Randomized dose-ranging study of the 14-day early bactericidal activity of bedaquiline (TMC207) in patients with sputum microscopy smear-positive pulmonary tuberculosis.
AB  - Bedaquiline is a new antituberculosis agent targeting ATP synthase. This randomized, double-blinded study enrolling 68 sputum smear-positive pulmonary tuberculosis patients evaluated the 14-day early bactericidal activity of daily doses of 100 mg, 200 mg, 300 mg, and 400 mg bedaquiline, preceded by loading doses of 200 mg, 400 mg, 500 mg, and 700 mg, respectively, on the first treatment day and 100 mg, 300 mg, 400 mg, and 500 mg on the second treatment day. All groups showed activity with a mean (standard deviation) daily fall in log10 CFU over 14 days of 0.040 (0.068), 0.056 (0.051), 0.077 (0.064), and 0.104 (0.077) in the 100-mg, 200-mg, 300-mg, and 400-mg groups, respectively. The linear trend for dose was significant (P = 0.001), and activity in the 400-mg dose group was greater than that in the 100-mg group (P = 0.014). All of the bedaquiline groups showed significant bactericidal activity that was continued to the end of the 14-day evaluation period. The finding of a linear trend for dose suggests that the highest dose compatible with safety considerations should be taken forward to longer-term clinical studies.

UI  - 23442225
TI  - Rationale and design of a randomized controlled trial of the effect of retinol and vitamin D supplementation on treatment in active pulmonary tuberculosis patients with diabetes.
AB  - ChiCTR-TRC-12002546.

UI  - 23433590
TI  - Nevirapine versus efavirenz for patients co-infected with HIV and tuberculosis: a randomised non-inferiority trial.
AB  - French Research Agency for HIV/AIDS and hepatitis (ANRS).

UI  - 23432610
TI  - Model-based evaluation of the pharmacokinetic differences between adults and children for lopinavir and ritonavir in combination with rifampicin.
AB  - The model characterized important differences between adults and children in the effect of rifampicin on the pharmacokinetics of lopinavir and ritonavir. As adult studies cannot reliably predict their magnitude in children, drug-drug interactions should be evaluated in paediatric patient populations.

UI  - 23407227
TI  - Free tuberculosis diagnosis and treatment are not enough: patient cost evidence from three continents.
AB  - We observed similar patterns and challenges of TB-related costs for patients across the three countries. We advocate for global, united action for TB patients to be included under social protection schemes and for national TB programmes to improve equitable access to care.

UI  - 23407221
TI  - Rifampicin plus isoniazid for the prevention of tuberculosis in an immigrant population.
AB  - The 3RH regimen facilitates adherence to LTBI treatment and offers a safe, well-tolerated and effective alternative.

UI  - 23393710
TI  - Pulmonary resection for multidrug-resistant tuberculosis: the Israeli experience (1998-2011).
AB  - Pulmonary resection for MDR-TB patients is an effective adjunctive treatment with acceptable morbidity and mortality.

UI  - 23351812
TI  - Rationale and design of the Investigation of the Management of Pericarditis (IMPI) trial: a 2  2 factorial randomized double-blind multicenter trial of adjunctive prednisolone and Mycobacterium w immunotherapy in tuberculous pericarditis.
AB  - IMPI is the largest trial yet conducted comparing adjunctive immunotherapy in pericarditis. Its results will define the role of adjunctive corticosteroids and M. w immunotherapy in patients with TB pericardial effusion.

UI  - 23350192
TI  - [Remaxol hepatoprotective therapy of patients with tuberculosis and HIV infection in day unit of tuberculosis dispensary].
AB  - To improve the treatment of hepatotoxic responses to antituberculosis polychemotherapy, the impact of remaxol on the biochemical indices and parameters of the antioxidant system in patients with tuberculosis and HIV infection was estimated. The use of remaxol having cytoprotective, anticholestatic, antihypoxitic and antioxidant effects in the treatment of patients with tuberculosis and HIV infection and liver drug damage due to tuberculosis polychemotherapy significantly improved the biochemical indices and lowered the level of the cytolytic and cholestatic syndromes. Remaxol increased the antioxidant system potential and had an antihypoxitic effect.

UI  - 23331510
TI  - Vitamin D accelerates clinical recovery from tuberculosis: results of the SUCCINCT Study [Supplementary Cholecalciferol in recovery from tuberculosis]. A randomized, placebo-controlled, clinical trial of vitamin D supplementation in patients with pulmonary tuberculosis'.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov; No. NCT01130311; URL: clinicaltrials.gov.

UI  - 23330601
TI  - Stevens-Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis in sub-Saharan Africa: a multicentric study in four countries.
AB  - This study has highlighted: (i) the high proportion of patients infected with HIV among patients who had SJS/TEN in sub-Saharan Africa; (ii) the high frequency of antiretroviral drugs as new SJS/TEN causes in sub-Saharan Africa; and (iii) the impact of HIV infection on morbidity and mortality of these affections.

UI  - 23321297
TI  - Impact of the human immunodeficiency virus on early multidrug-resistant tuberculosis treatment outcomes in Botswana.
AB  - We found no difference in the proportion of or time to initial sputum culture conversion between an HIV-infected and a non-infected cohort of MDR-TB patients in Botswana, suggesting that outcomes may be comparable in similar settings with access to individualized anti-tuberculosis treatment and HAART.

UI  - 23317964
TI  - Direct and early detection of Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex and rifampicin resistance from sputum smears.
AB  - LiPA proved useful on DNA extracted from smear-positive slides. Appropriate treatment regimen could be decided early. Slide smear preparation could replace sputum transport in cetylpyridinium chloride, reducing biohazard and thereby controlling the transmission of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis in the community.

UI  - 23317960
TI  - Tuberculous lymphadenopathy: a multicentre operational study of 6-month thrice weekly directly observed treatment.
AB  - The operational efficacy of 6-month thrice-weekly DOT for peripheral tubercular lymphadenopathy was satisfactory. There was no evidence of additional benefits of prolonging treatment to 9 months.

UI  - 23317958
TI  - Smoking and 2-month culture conversion during anti-tuberculosis treatment.
AB  - Cigarette smoking adversely affects culture conversion during anti-tuberculosis treatment. Support for smoking cessation should be considered to improve outcomes in TB control programs.

UI  - 23317954
TI  - Safety and effectiveness of HAART in tuberculosis-HIV co-infected patients in Brazil.
AB  - HIV patients with TB have significantly better survival if they receive HAART during anti-tuberculosis treatment. Efavirenz-based HAART is associated with fewer AEs than protease inhibitor-based HAART.

UI  - 23308203
TI  - Feasibility of an ingestible sensor-based system for monitoring adherence to tuberculosis therapy.
AB  - Poor adherence to tuberculosis (TB) treatment hinders the individual's recovery and threatens public health. Currently, directly observed therapy (DOT) is the standard of care; however, high sustaining costs limit its availability, creating a need for more practical adherence confirmation methods. Techniques such as video monitoring and devices to time-register the opening of pill bottles are unable to confirm actual medication ingestions. A novel approach developed by Proteus Digital Health, Inc. consists of an ingestible sensor and an on-body wearable sensor; together, they electronically confirm unique ingestions and record the date/time of the ingestion. A feasibility study using an early prototype was conducted in active TB patients to determine the system's accuracy and safety in confirming co-ingestion of TB medications with sensors. Thirty patients completed 10 DOT visits and 1,080 co-ingestion events; the system showed 95.0% (95% CI 93.5-96.2%) positive detection accuracy, defined as the number of detected sensors divided by the number of transmission capable sensors administered. The specificity was 99.7% [95% CI 99.2-99.9%] based on three false signals recorded by receivers. The system's identification accuracy, defined as the number of correctly identified ingestible sensors divided by the number of sensors detected, was 100%. Of 11 adverse events, four were deemed related or possibly related to the device; three mild skin rashes and one complaint of nausea. The system's positive detection accuracy was not affected by the subjects' Body Mass Index (p=0.7309). Study results suggest the system is capable of correctly identifying ingestible sensors with high accuracy, poses a low risk to users, and may have high patient acceptance. The system has the potential to confirm medication specific treatment compliance on a dose-by-dose basis. When coupled with mobile technology, the system could allow wirelessly observed therapy (WOT) for monitoring TB treatment as a replacement for DOT.

UI  - 23278775
TI  - Efficacy of the 6-month thrice-weekly regimen in the treatment of new sputum smear-positive pulmonary tuberculosis under clinical trial conditions.
AB  - This thrice-weekly 6-month regimen of antitubercular drugs, when administered under full supervision, is associated with a high rate of favourable treatment outcomes in HIV-negative patients with newly diagnosed sputum smearpositive pulmonary tuberculosis. There are few adverse drug reactions in these patients.

UI  - 24975354
TI  - Management of paediatric tuberculosis in provincial and district hospitals in Afghanistan.
AB  - Case detection, diagnosis and treatment of tuberculosis 1 B) in children are challenging issues vorldwide. This study in Afghanistan aimed to evaluate paediatric TB case management, including contact investigation, at health facilities where all diagnostic processes were available. In 7 out of 8 regions of the country 1 province was selected. Documents used for management of paediatric TB cases were reviewed in 15 distinct hospitals and 8 provincial hospitals in the selected provinces. The key issues which emerged were: a low suspect rate among total outpatients (0.4%) and a very low suspect rate among children aged < 5 years; low performance of suspect management (68.5% suspects received further examinations); low utilization of other diagnostic methods; a high early defaulter rate (14.0%); and insufficient coverage of contact management (74.0%). This survey indicated that the Afghanistan national TB programme needs to develop plans to improve the quality of diagnosis, suspect management and contact management in paediatric TB cases.

UI  - 24640150
TI  - [Reamberin in tuberculosis chemotherapy and its effect on liver function].
AB  - The use of reamberin for prophylaxis of side effects was estimated in 257 patients with tuberculosis of the respiratory organs under the chemotherapy. The reference group involved 241 patients treated with the chemotherapeutics alone. Reamberin in the treatment of the patients, including subjects with multidrug resistant Mycobacterium tuberculosis, promoted a 2-fold decrease in the frequency of the intoxication syndrome during the first month of the treatment. Adverse reactions (toxic, allergic) to the antituberculosis chemotherapeuties were 2.4 times less frequent in the patients additionally treated with reamberin. Positive effect of reamberin on the activity of AIAT and AsAT was observed, the effect being higher, when the pathogen was susceptible to the drugs.

UI  - 24640140
TI  - [Comparative efficacy of clinical use of reamberin, remaxol and ademethionine in patients with tuberculosis of the respiratory organs and liver drug-injury].
AB  - The efficacy ofreamberin, remaxol, S-adenosyl-L-methionine (ademethionine) and 5% glucose solution was estimated in the treatment of patients with tuberculosis of the respiratory organs and drug hepatotoxicity signs confirmed by higher activity of liver indicative enzymes and nitrogen oxide levels. Remaxol showed a pronounced positive effect on the cytolytic syndrome signs, evident from lower activity of alanine aminotransferase and aspartate aminotransferase. At the same time ademethionine was superior to remaxol in the effect on the cholestatic signs and inferior in the effect on the cytolytic signs. By the effect on the activity of alanine aminotransferase and aspartate aminotransferase, reamberin was inferior to remaxol and superior to ademe-thionine, its effect on the cholestasis markers level vs. the other drugs being superior only to that of 5% glucose solution. As compared to reamberin, ademethionine and 5% glucose solution, remaxol promoted higher integral indices of the host antioxidant protection (total antioxidant capacity and total antioxidant status), that partially explained the drug pronounced hepatoprotective effect.

UI  - 23251327
TI  - Efficacy of a six-month versus a 36-month regimen for prevention of tuberculosis in HIV-infected persons in India: a randomized clinical trial.
AB  - Both regimens were similarly effective in preventing TB, when compared to historical incidence rates. However, there was a trend to lower TB incidence with 36H. There was no increase in isoniazid resistance compared to the expected rate in HIV-infected patients. The trial is registered at ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT00351702.

UI  - 23220919
TI  - Interferon- ELISPOT as a biomarker of treatment efficacy in latent tuberculosis infection: a clinical trial.
AB  - In contacts with LTBI, INH therapy plays no role in observed decreases in Mycobacterium tuberculosis antigen-specific T-cell responses over time. IFN- ELISPOT is probably not a useful biomarker of treatment efficacy in LTBI. Clinical trial registered with www.clinicaltrials.gov (NCT 00130325).

UI  - 23209409
TI  - Relatively low level of antigen-specific monocytes detected in blood from untreated tuberculosis patients using CD4+ T-cell receptor tetramers.
AB  - The in vivo kinetics of antigen-presenting cells (APCs) in patients with advanced and convalescent tuberculosis (TB) is not well characterized. In order to target Mycobacterium tuberculosis (MTB) peptides- and HLA-DR-holding monocytes and macrophages, 2 MTB peptide-specific CD4(+) T-cell receptor (TCR) tetramers eu and hu were successfully constructed. Peripheral blood (PBL) samples from inpatients with advanced pulmonary TB (PTB) were analyzed using flow cytometry, and the percentages of tetramer-bound CD14(+) monocytes ranged from 0.26-1.44% and 0.21-0.95%, respectively; significantly higher than those measured in PBL samples obtained from non-TB patients, healthy donors, and umbilical cords. These tetramers were also able to specifically detect macrophages in situ via immunofluorescent staining. The results of the continuous time-point tracking of the tetramer-positive rates in PBL samples from active PTB outpatients undergoing treatment show that the median percentages were at first low before treatment, increased to their highest levels during the first month, and then began to decrease during the second month until finally reaching and maintaining a relatively low level after 3-6 months. These results suggest that there is a relatively low level of MTB-specific monocytes in advanced and untreated patients. Further experiments show that MTB induces apoptosis in CD14(+) cells, and the percentage of apoptotic monocytes dramatically decreases after treatment. Therefore, the relatively low level of MTB-specific monocytes is probably related to the apoptosis or necrosis of APCs due to live bacteria and their growth. The bactericidal effects of anti-TB drugs, as well as other unknown factors, would induce a peak value during the first month of treatment, and a relatively low level would be subsequently reached and maintained until all of the involved factors reached equilibrium. These tetramers have diagnostic potential and can provide valuable insights into the mechanisms of antigen presentation and its relationship with TB infection and latent TB infection.

UI  - 23183433
TI  - A time-to-event pharmacodynamic model describing treatment response in patients with pulmonary tuberculosis using days to positivity in automated liquid mycobacterial culture.
AB  - Days to positivity in automated liquid mycobacterial culture have been shown to correlate with mycobacterial load and have been proposed as a useful biomarker for treatment responses in tuberculosis. However, there is currently no quantitative method or model to analyze the change in days to positivity with time on treatment. The objectives of this study were to describe the decline in numbers of mycobacteria in sputum collected once weekly for 8 weeks from patients on treatment for tuberculosis using days to positivity in liquid culture. One hundred forty-four patients with smear-positive pulmonary tuberculosis were recruited from a tuberculosis clinic in Cape Town, South Africa. A nonlinear mixed-effects repeated-time-to-event modeling approach was used to analyze the time-to-positivity data. A biexponential model described the decline in the estimated number of bacteria in patients' sputum samples, while a logistic model with a lag time described the growth of the bacteria in liquid culture. At baseline, the estimated number of rapidly killed bacteria is typically 41 times higher than that of those that are killed slowly. The time to kill half of the rapidly killed bacteria was about 1.8 days, while it was 39 days for slowly killed bacteria. Patients with lung cavitation had higher bacterial loads than patients without lung cavitation. The model successfully described the increase in days to positivity as treatment progressed, differentiating between bacteria that are killed rapidly and those that are killed slowly. Our model can be used to analyze similar data from studies testing new drug regimens.

UI  - 23171059
TI  - Inequalities in HIV disease management and progression in migrants from Latin America and sub-Saharan Africa living in Spain.
AB  - Migrants experience a disproportionate diagnostic delay, but no meaningful inequalities were identified regarding initiation of treatment after diagnosis. A poorer virological and immunological response was observed in SSA. Migrants had an increased risk of AIDS, which was mainly attributable to tuberculosis.

UI  - 23167603
TI  - Population pharmacokinetics of rifampicin in Mexican patients with tuberculosis.
AB  - Gender was associated with changes in CL/F and V(d) /F whereas the pharmaceutical formulation was associated with changes in F and altered the K(a) . The validation data set showed that the model could be used in clinical practice for Bayesian dose adjustment of RIF in TB patients.

UI  - 23161902
TI  - Clinical efficacy, radiographic and safety findings through 2 years of golimumab treatment in patients with active psoriatic arthritis: results from a long-term extension of the randomised, placebo-controlled GO-REVEAL study.
AB  - Golimumab 50 and 100 mg for up to 2 years yielded sustained clinical and radiographic efficacy when administered to patients with active PsA. Increasing the golimumab dose from 50 to 100 mg q4wks added limited benefit. Golimumab safety through up to 2 years was consistent with other antitumour necrosis factor  agents used to treat PsA. Treatment of patients with latent tuberculosis identified at baseline appeared to be effective in inhibiting the development of active tuberculosis.

UI  - 23150149
TI  - NAT2 genotype guided regimen reduces isoniazid-induced liver injury and early treatment failure in the 6-month four-drug standard treatment of tuberculosis: a randomized controlled trial for pharmacogenetics-based therapy.
AB  - Our results clearly indicate a great potential of the NAT2 genotype-guided dosing stratification of isoniazid in chemotherapy for tuberculosis.

UI  - 23131262
TI  - Tuberculosis in the workplace: developing partnerships with the garment industries in Bangladesh.
AB  - It is feasible to engage factories in TB control activities in Bangladesh, and thereby increase case notifications and improve treatment outcomes.

UI  - 23131255
TI  - Lessons from a randomised clinical trial for multidrug-resistant tuberculosis.
AB  - Recruitment and retention in this MDR-TB clinical trial posed substantial challenges, suggesting the need for a large, multidisciplinary group of study staff to support the participants. Withdrawal tended to occur early in study treatment. The discrepancy in assigned study medication reflects the need for stronger administrative controls for study drugs.

UI  - 23130467
TI  - Adverse drug reactions and outcome of short course anti-tuberculosis drugs between single daily dose and split drug dose (BID) in pulmonary tuberculosis.
AB  - Split drug regimen has the same cure rate of treatment as single daily regimen and same adverse drug reactions.

UI  - 23127245
TI  - Decreased activities of daily living is a strong risk factor for liver injury by anti-tuberculosis drugs.
AB  - Decreased activity of daily living is a strong risk factor for liver injury among adult inpatients with newly diagnosed smear-positive lung tuberculosis treated using a standard regimen.

UI  - 23103177
TI  - Intensified regimen containing rifampicin and moxifloxacin for tuberculous meningitis: an open-label, randomised controlled phase 2 trial.
AB  - Royal Dutch Academy of Arts and Sciences, Netherlands Foundation for Scientific Research, and Padjadjaran University, Bandung, Indonesia.

UI  - 23082557
TI  - Influence of ABCB-1 C3435T polymorphisms on plasma nevirapine and efavirenz levels and their effects on virologic and immunological outcomes in HIV/TB co-infected Thai adults under anti-retroviral therapy.
AB  - ATP-binding cassette, sub-family B (encoded by ABCB-1 or MDR-1) has an important role in cellular export of antiretroviral agents. A previous study showed that ABCB-1 C3435T polymorphism affects plasma efavirenz and nelfinavir concentrations and rate of CD4+ T cell recovery after starting antiretroviral treatment (ART). The present study examined the influence of ABCB-1 polymorphisms on plasma nevirapine and efavirenz levels when co-administered with rifampicin in 124 HIV/TB patients who received nevirapine- (400 mg/day) (n = 59) and efavirenz- (600 mg/day) (n = 65) based ART. ABCB-1 C3435T polymorphisms were genotyped using real-time PCR. CD4 T cell counts and HIV-1 viral RNA were evaluated in response to ART. The frequencies of CC, CT and TT genotypes of ABCB-1 C3435T polymorphism were 34% (n = 42), 55% (n = 68) and 12% (n = 14), respectively. Contrary to the previous report, no association was found among these genotypes and plasma drug concentrations at weeks 6 and 12 of ART and after rifampicin discontinuation. We also observed no differences in CD4+ T cell recovery rate among different ABCB-1 C3435T genotypes. In nevirapine group, however, all the patients with CT genotype achieved HIV-1 RNA levels of < 50 copies/ml, while 67% of those with TT and 95% with CC genotypes achieved < 50 copies/ml (p = 0.040). These data suggested that ABCB-1 C3435T polymorphisms do not affect plasma nevirapine and efavirenz concentrations in HIV/TB co-infected Thai patients or their immunological outcome, but had an effect on virologic outcome in the nevirapine-treated group.

UI  - 23075177
TI  - Linezolid for treatment of chronic extensively drug-resistant tuberculosis.
AB  - Linezolid is effective at achieving culture conversion among patients with treatment-refractory XDR pulmonary tuberculosis, but patients must be monitored carefully for adverse events. (Funded by the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases and the Ministry of Health and Welfare, South Korea; ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00727844.).

UI  - 23053764
TI  - Ultra-short-course chemotherapy for spinal tuberculosis: five years of observation.
AB  - With thorough focus debridement, bone grafting, and internal fixation, the efficacy of ultra-short chemotherapy was similar to that of standard chemotherapy for the treatment of spinal tuberculosis. The ultra-short-course chemotherapy can shorten the course of treatment and reduce drug side effects.

UI  - 23044446
TI  - Outcomes of Category III DOTS treatment in immunocompetent patients with tuberculosis pleural effusion.
AB  - Intermittent thrice-weekly treatment for 6 months with three drugs in the intensive phase is effective and safe for unilateral small pleural effusion in immunocompetent patients. Although Category III no longer exists in the programme, the results are reassuring for intermittent treatment in extra-pulmonary TB under programme conditions.

UI  - 23043067
TI  - Efavirenz, tenofovir and emtricitabine combined with first-line tuberculosis treatment in tuberculosis-HIV-coinfected Tanzanian patients: a pharmacokinetic and safety study.
AB  - Coadministration of efavirenz, tenofovir and emtricitabine with a standard first-line TB treatment regimen did not significantly alter the pharmacokinetic parameters of these drugs and was tolerated well by Tanzanian TB patients who are coinfected with HIV.

UI  - 23032215
TI  - Linezolid-containing regimens for the treatment of drug-resistant tuberculosis in South African children.
AB  - Linezolid-containing regimens can be effective in treating children with DR-TB even after failing second-line treatment. Adverse events should be monitored, especially in combination with medications that have similar adverse effects. Linezolid remains costly, and a reduced dosage and duration may result in fewer adverse events and lower cost.

UI  - 23018916
TI  - Delamanid improves outcomes and reduces mortality in multidrug-resistant tuberculosis.
AB  - Multidrug-resistant and extensively drug-resistant tuberculosis (TB) are associated with worse treatment outcomes for patients, including higher mortality, than for drug-sensitive tuberculosis. Delamanid (OPC-67683) is a novel anti-TB medication with demonstrated activity against multidrug-resistant disease. Patients who participated in the previously reported randomised, placebo-controlled trial of delamanid and the subsequent open-label extension trial were eligible to participate in a 24-month observational study designed to capture treatment outcomes. Treatment outcomes, as assessed by clinicians and defined by the World Health Organization, were categorised as favourable and unfavourable. Delamanid treatment groups were combined for analysis, based on their duration of treatment. In total, for 421 (87.5%) out of 481 patients from the original randomised controlled trial, consent was granted for follow-up assessments. Favourable outcomes were observed in 143 (74.5%) out of 192 patients who received delamanid for 6 months, compared to 126 (55%) out of 229 patients who received delamanid for 2 months. Mortality was reduced to 1.0% among those receiving long-term delamanid versus short-term/no delamanid (8.3%; p<0.001). Treatment benefit was also seen among patients with extensively drug-resistant TB. This analysis suggests that treatment with delamanid for 6 months in combination with an optimised background regimen can improve outcomes and reduce mortality among patients with both multidrug-resistant and extensively drug-resistant TB.

UI  - 22999589
TI  - Application of bronchoscopic argon plasma coagulation in the treatment of tumorous endobronchial tuberculosis: historical controlled trial.
AB  - Bronchoscopic argon plasma coagulation can accelerate the healing of tumorous endobronchial tuberculosis and can help prevent progressive bronchial stenosis resulting from tumorous endobronchial tuberculosis, and it is a very safe method.

UI  - 22997218
TI  - Efficacy and safety of meropenem-clavulanate added to linezolid-containing regimens in the treatment of MDR-/XDR-TB.
AB  - Clinical experience on meropenem-clavulanate to treat tuberculosis (TB) is anecdotal (according to case reports on 10 patients). The aim of our case-control study was to evaluate the contribution of meropenem-clavulanate when added to linezolid-containing regimens in terms of efficacy and safety/tolerability in treating multidrug-resistant (MDR) and extensively drug-resistant (XDR) TB cases after 3 months of second-line treatment. 37 cases with MDR-/XDR-TB were prescribed meropenem-clavulanate (3 g daily dose) in addition to a linezolid-containing regimen (dosage range 300-1200 mgday(-1)), designed according to international guidelines, which was prescribed to 61 controls. The clinical severity of cases was worse than that of controls (drug susceptibility profile, proportion of sputum-smear positive and of re-treatment cases). The group of cases yielded a higher proportion of sputum-smear converters (28 (87.5%) out of 32 versus nine (56.3%) out of 16; p=0.02) and culture converters (31 (83.8%) out of 37 versus 15 (62.5%) out of 24; p=0.06). Excluding XDR-TB patients (11 (11.2%) out of 98), cases scored a significantly higher proportion of culture converters than controls (p=0.03). One case had to withdraw from meropenem-clavulanate due to increased transaminase levels. The results of our study provide: 1) preliminary evidence on effectiveness and safety/tolerability of meropenem-clavulanate; 2) reference to design further trials; and 3) a guide to clinicians for its rationale use within salvage/compassionate regimens.

UI  - 22973852
TI  - Treatment of opportunistic infections prior to HAART initiation does not affect immune reconstitution in HIV-infected patients.
AB  - In patients receiving highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART), increase of naive T-cell production, as measured by T-cell receptor rearrangement excision circles (TRECs), is an indicator of immune reconstitution. Our objective was to assess whether treating opportunistic infections (OIs) prior to HAART initiation affects CD4 T-cells recovery and TRECs in patients on HAART. HIV-infected patients presenting no OIs or treated OIs were prospectively enrolled prior to HAART initiation and followed-up over 12 months of HAART. CD4 T-cells and TRECs were measured at baseline, 6 and 12 months HAART and compared between patients presenting no OIs and those with treated OIs. Univariate and multivariate logistic regression models were used to identify potential factors associated with low TREC increase after 12 months HAART. Forty-four HIV-infected patients, 31 presenting no OIs and 13 with treated OIs at HAART initiation were enrolled. Patients presenting no OIs tended to have higher CD4 T-cell gain than those with treated OIs (151 vs 89 cells/L; p = 0.05) after 6 months HAART but not after 12 months HAART (120 vs 149 cells/L; p = 0.84). Among patients presenting no OIs, TREC levels significantly increased from baseline through 12 months HAART while among those with treated OIs, there was a trend for increase only after 12 months. Our study indicates that treatment of OIs prior to HAART does not lead to impaired CD4 T-cells recovery and thymic outputs.

UI  - 22944873
TI  - The immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome after antiretroviral therapy initiation in patients with tuberculosis: findings from the SAPiT trial.
AB  - Comprehensive International Program of Research on AIDS.

UI  - 22938757
TI  - Prevalence of and risk factors for resistance to second-line drugs in people with multidrug-resistant tuberculosis in eight countries: a prospective cohort study.
AB  - US Agency for International Development, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Institutes of Health/National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, and Korean Ministry of Health and Welfare.

UI  - 22938040
TI  - A predictive scoring instrument for tuberculosis lost to follow-up outcome.
AB  - This model has a good capacity to predict a lost to follow-up outcome. Its use could help TB Programs to determine which patients are good candidates for DOT and other strategies to improve TB treatment adherence.

UI  - 22911011
TI  - Antiretroviral therapy for prevention of tuberculosis in adults with HIV: a systematic review and meta-analysis.
AB  - International Prospective Register of Systematic Reviews CRD42011001209 Please see later in the article for the Editors' Summary.

UI  - 22863522
TI  - Screening outcomes from patients with suspected multidrug-resistant tuberculosis: lessons learned in the Philippines.
AB  - Resistance to INH+RMP is the most frequent resistance pattern among patients referred from DOTS clinics in the Philippines for suspected MDR-TB. Initial use of standard regimens based on national survey data and quick uptake of new rapid molecular resistance tests may be useful to reduce diagnostic delays and expedite treatment for drug-resistant TB.

UI  - 22850121
TI  - Substitution of rifapentine for rifampin during intensive phase treatment of pulmonary tuberculosis: study 29 of the tuberculosis trials consortium.
AB  - NCT00694629.

UI  - 22834123
TI  - [Cycloferon in the complex therapy of patients with widespread forms of pulmonary tuberculosis].
AB  - Research performed at the Grodno Regional Clinical Center "Phthisiology" was aimed at studying the dynamics of IFN-gamma and IL-4 in serum of patients with widespread forms of pulmonary tuberculosis, treated by polychemotherapy with the use of cycloferon. Results of the clinical and laboratory evaluation of the effectiveness of the basic course of treatment are presented. A total of 238 patients, including 32 patients with limited forms of the pulmonary tuberculosis and 206 patients had widespread forms of pulmonary tuberculosis, were randomized into the basic group (BG) and comparison group (CG), where 95 CG patients received only polychemotherapy and 111 BG patients received polychemotherapy with the use of cycloferon. Data on the initial levels of cytokines (IFN-gamma and IL-4) in healthy persons and patients with various spread ofa tubercular inflammation in lungs are presented and compared. It is established that, in patients with widespread forms, initially low level of IFN-gamma and high concentration IL-4 (in comparison with the limited forms) shows a severe disbalance between Th1- and Th2-mediated immune response. The administration of cycloferon in the complex therapy of patients with widespread forms leads to an increase in the IFN-gamma concentration at initially low levels (below median level of this cytokine in healthy humans). Activation of the Th1-mediated immune response upon using cycloferon leads to an early elimination of clinical manifestations of the intoxication syndrome, positive roentgenological dynamics, conversion of sputum smear, and successful outcomes of treatment.

UI  - 22830951
TI  - Screening patients with diabetes mellitus for tuberculosis in China.
AB  - This pilot project shows that it is feasible to carry out screening of DM patients for TB resulting in high detection rates of TB. This has major public health and patient-related implications.

UI  - 22828481
TI  - 14-day bactericidal activity of PA-824, bedaquiline, pyrazinamide, and moxifloxacin combinations: a randomised trial.
AB  - The Global Alliance for TB Drug Development (TB Alliance).

UI  - 22789497
TI  - Predictors of poor outcomes among patients treated for multidrug-resistant tuberculosis at DOTS-plus projects.
AB  - The Objective of this analysis was to identify predictors of death, failure, and default among MDR-TB patients treated with second-line drugs in DOTS-plus projects in Estonia, Latvia, Philippines, Russia, and Peru, 2000-2004. Risk ratios (RR) with 95% confidence intervals (CI) were calculated using multivariable regression. Of 1768 patients, treatment outcomes were: cure/completed - 1156 (65%), died - 200 (11%), default - 241 (14%), failure - 118 (7%). Independent predictors of death included: age>45 years (RR = 1.90 (95%CI 1.29-2.80), HIV infection (RR = 4.22 (2.65-6.72)), extrapulmonary disease (RR = 1.54 (1.04-2.26)), BMI<18.5 (RR = 2.71 (1.91-3.85)), previous use of fluoroquinolones (RR = 1.91 (1.31-2.78)), resistance to any thioamide (RR = 1.59 (1.14-2.22)), baseline positive smear (RR = 2.22 (1.60-3.10)), no culture conversion by 3rd month of treatment (RR = 1.69 (1.19-2.41)); failure: cavitary disease (RR = 1.73 (1.07-2.80)), resistance to any fluoroquinolone (RR = 2.73 (1.71-4.37)) and any thioamide (RR = 1.62 (1.12-2.34)), and no culture conversion by 3rd month (RR = 5.84 (3.02-11.27)); default: unemployment (RR = 1.50 (1.12-2.01)), homelessness (RR = 1.52 (1.00-2.31)), imprisonment (RR = 1.86 (1.42-2.45)), alcohol abuse (RR = 1.60 (1.18-2.16)), and baseline positive smear (RR = 1.35 (1.07-1.71)). Patients with biomedical risk factors for treatment failure or death should receive heightened medical attention. To prevent treatment default, management of patients who are unemployed, homeless, alcoholic, or have a prison history requires extra measures to insure treatment completion.

UI  - 22788240
TI  - Genetic interaction between NAT2, GSTM1, GSTT1, CYP2E1, and environmental factors is associated with adverse reactions to anti-tuberculosis drugs.
AB  - The study findings provide evidence of the clinical impact of the interaction between pharmacogenetic variability and environmental factors on ADRs induced by anti-TB drug therapy. Predictive pharmacogenetic testing and a comprehensive clinical history would therefore be helpful for identification and careful monitoring of patients at high risk of this complication.

UI  - 22782640
TI  - Comprehensive tuberculosis screening program in patients with inflammatory arthritides treated with golimumab, a human anti-tumor necrosis factor antibody, in Phase III clinical trials.
AB  - Comprehensive TB screening kept the number of active TB cases relatively low despite conducting the studies in TB-endemic regions. Treatment for latent TB infection appeared effective, since no patients treated for latent TB had TB reactivation. Concurrent treatment with golimumab and anti-TB medication was generally well tolerated. Clinicians should remain vigilant for development of active TB after initiation of TNF inhibitors, since prompt diagnosis and treatment can improve outcomes.

UI  - 22764425
TI  - Promoting public-private mix for TB-DOTs: a multi-country study from the WHO Eastern Mediterranean Region.
AB  - This study was carried out to document the implementation status of public-private mix (PPM) in 6 member countries of the World Health Organization Eastern Mediterranean Region, with a particular focus on advocacy, communication and social mobilization (ACSM) specific to PPM. Interviews and focus group discussions were held with staff of national tuberculosis control programmes and partners. Four PPM models were being practised. For all models, ACSM specific to PPM was at the elementary stage. Participants perceived that promoting private partners was difficult, specific policy guidelines were deficient and human resources and capacity for both initiatives were lacking across the region. Building ACSM capacity is required along with the development of guidelines and the implementation of country-specific communication plans to carry out local-level advocacy, strategic communication and effective social mobilization to maximize the benefits of PPM.

UI  - 22747953
TI  - Multiple drug hypersensitivity reactions to anti-tuberculosis drugs: five cases in HIV-infected patients.
AB  - In a description of MDH in five HIV-TB co-infected patients, including acute peripheral neuropathy, SM and OFX were the most common offending drugs.

UI  - 22747856
TI  - Drug lymphocyte stimulation test is not useful for side effects of anti-tuberculosis drugs despite its timing.
AB  - DLST is not useful for determining the causative drug in patients with rash, hepatitis or fever reactions to anti-tuberculosis drugs, regardless of when it is performed.

UI  - 22736022
TI  - Clinical evaluation of the stability of single-segment short pedicle screw fixation for the reconstruction of lumbar and sacral tuberculosis lesions.
AB  - Single-segment pedicle screw fixation and correction surgery can fix and fuse the diseased segment in lumbar and sacral tuberculosis, retain normal movement in the adjacent spinal column, and promote functional recovery of the spinal column postoperatively. It was be regarded as a cost-effective means of treatment with lumbar and sacral tuberculosis.

UI  - 22734962
TI  - Gender differences in treatment outcomes of tuberculosis patients in Taiwan: a prospective observational study.
AB  - Gender disparities in tuberculosis (TB) cases are reported worldwide, and socio-cultural factors have been proposed as possible causes. To date, gender differences in treatment outcomes of TB patients remain controversial. In this prospective observational study, newly diagnosed, culture-proven TB patients from six hospitals in Taiwan were enrolled for analysis. Gender differences in demographic characteristics and treatment outcomes, including sputum conversion and on-treatment mortality, were analysed accordingly. From January 2007 through to December 2009, a total of 1059 patients were enrolled, including 819 (77.3%) males and 240 (22.7%) females. The ratio of male gender was around 50 ~ 60% in TB patients below 35 years and >80% for those older than 65 years. When compared with the female patients, the male patients were older, more likely to have the habit of smoking, chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder, malignancy and liver cirrhosis, and more likely to present with haemoptysis, body weight loss and pleural effusion. Regarding treatment outcomes, male gender is associated with a lower 2-month sputum culture conversion rate (78.8% vs. 89.3%, p 0.002) and higher on-treatment mortality (21.1% vs. 12.1%, p 0.002). Kaplan-Meier survival analysis demonstrated significantly higher mortality in the men (p 0.005). In multivariate analysis, male gender was an independent risk factor for 2-month sputum culture un-conversion (OR, 1.96; 95% CI, 1.12-3.41). Our findings suggest that male gender is associated with older age, more co-morbidities and worse treatment outcomes. Gender-specific strategies, including active case finding in elderly women and smoking cessation in male patients, are warranted to optimize TB management.

UI  - 22703726
TI  - [Treatment duration of extra-pulmonary tuberculosis: 6 months or more? TB-INFO database analysis].
AB  - A period of 6 months seems to be sufficient to treat extrapulmonary tuberculosis (except for neuromeningeal localization).

UI  - 22695364
TI  - Isoniazid pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, and dosing in South African infants.
AB  - INH at an average dose of 14.5 mg/kg once daily was well tolerated in infants and achieved INH Cmax values 3 mg/L and AUC0-24 values 10.52 mgh/L.

UI  - 22670901
TI  - Delamanid for multidrug-resistant pulmonary tuberculosis.
AB  - Delamanid was associated with an increase in sputum-culture conversion at 2 months among patients with multidrug-resistant tuberculosis. This finding suggests that delamanid could enhance treatment options for multidrug-resistant tuberculosis. (Funded by Otsuka Pharmaceutical Development and Commercialization; ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00685360.).

UI  - 22640513
TI  - Reasons for non-participation in an international multicenter trial of a new drug for tuberculosis treatment.
AB  - Increased evaluation of screening outcomes and of specific interventions, such as improved education and communication about trial procedures, may increase the efficiency of screening and enrollment in clinical trials.

UI  - 22640511
TI  - Extension of the intensive phase reduces relapse but not failure in a regimen with rifampicin throughout.
AB  - Extension of P1 is very inefficient with this 6-month regimen. Operational research should define appropriate algorithms allowing an earlier switch to the next higher regimen for those in need, using follow-up smears for screening.

UI  - 22607233
TI  - A pivotal registration phase III, multicenter, randomized tuberculosis controlled trial: design issues and lessons learnt from the Gatifloxacin for TB (OFLOTUB) project.
AB  - When shortening TB treatment, we are advocating for a non-inferiority, non-blinded design, with a composite unfavorable endpoint assessed 12 months post treatment completion, and added trial procedures specifically aiming to: (1) minimize endpoint unavailability; and (2) distinguish between relapse and re-infection.

UI  - 22592586
TI  - Time to initiate antiretroviral therapy between 4 weeks and 12 weeks of tuberculosis treatment in HIV-infected patients: results from the TIME study.
AB  - In middle-income countries where ART is initiated at CD4 count of <350 cells per cubic millimeter, immediate initiation of ART in HIV-infected patients with active TB was not associated with survival advantage when compared to initiation of ART at 12 weeks.

UI  - 22585223
TI  - Moxifloxacin population pharmacokinetics in patients with pulmonary tuberculosis and the effect of intermittent high-dose rifapentine.
AB  - We described the population pharmacokinetics of moxifloxacin and the effect of high-dose intermittent rifapentine in patients with pulmonary tuberculosis who were randomized to a continuation-phase regimen of 400 mg moxifloxacin and 900 mg rifapentine twice weekly or 400 mg moxifloxacin and 1,200 mg rifapentine once weekly. A two-compartment model with transit absorption best described moxifloxacin pharmacokinetics. Although rifapentine increased the clearance of moxifloxacin by 8% during antituberculosis treatment compared to that after treatment completion without rifapentine, it did not result in a clinically significant change in moxifloxacin exposure.

UI  - 22564839
TI  - Population pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of ofloxacin in South African patients with multidrug-resistant tuberculosis.
AB  - Despite the important role of fluoroquinolones and the predominant use of ofloxacin for treating multidrug-resistant tuberculosis in South Africa, there are limited data on ofloxacin pharmacokinetics in patients with multidrug-resistant tuberculosis, no ofloxacin pharmacokinetic data from South African patients, and no direct assessment of the relationship between ofloxacin pharmacokinetics and the MIC of ofloxacin of patient isolates. Our objectives are to describe ofloxacin pharmacokinetics in South African patients being treated for multidrug-resistant tuberculosis and assess the adequacy of ofloxacin drug exposure with respect to the probability of pharmacodynamic target attainment (area under the time curve/MIC ratio of at least 100). Sixty-five patients with multidrug-resistant tuberculosis were recruited from 2 hospitals in South Africa. We determined the ofloxacin MICs for the Mycobacterium tuberculosis isolates from baseline sputum specimens. Patients received daily doses of 800 mg ofloxacin, in addition to other antitubercular drugs. Patients underwent pharmacokinetic sampling at steady state. NONMEM was used for data analysis. The population pharmacokinetics of ofloxacin in this study has been adequately described. The probability of target attainment expectation in the study population was 0.45. Doubling the dose to 1,600 mg could increase this to only 0.77. The currently recommended ofloxacin dose appeared inadequate for the majority of this study population. Studies to assess the tolerability of higher doses are warranted. Alternatively, ofloxacin should be replaced with more potent fluoroquinolones.

UI  - 22546991
TI  - Pharmacokinetics of nevirapine in HIV-infected children under 3 years on rifampicin-based antituberculosis treatment.
AB  - : We found substantial reductions in nevirapine concentrations in young children receiving rifampicin. Further studies are needed to define the pharmacokinetics, safety and efficacy of adjusted doses of nevirapine-based ART in young children with tuberculosis.

UI  - 22507943
TI  - Almost universal coverage: HIV testing among TB patients in a rural public programme.
AB  - 

UI  - 22507441
TI  - Paradoxical response in HIV-negative patients with pleural tuberculosis: a retrospective multicentre study.
AB  - Paradoxical response developed in 16% of the patients approximately 2 months after initiation of anti-tuberculosis treatment, presenting with aggravation of pre-existing pleural effusion. Development of paradoxical response was associated with the proportion of eosinophils and protein concentrations in the pleural fluid at the time of diagnosis.

UI  - 22489253
TI  - Impact of previous ART and of ART initiation on outcome of HIV-associated tuberculosis.
AB  - ART during tuberculosis treatment is associated with a substantial reduction of death rate among HIV-infected patients. However, patients who are not ART-naive when they develop tuberculosis remain at elevated risk of death.

UI  - 22483479
TI  - Safety and efficacy of a quinolone-based regimen for treatment of tuberculosis in renal transplant recipients.
AB  - A QNL-based regimen may be safe and effective for treatment of tuberculosis and may lower the risk of graft failure in renal transplant recipients.

UI  - 22470117
TI  - Influence of antituberculosis drug resistance and Mycobacterium tuberculosis lineage on outcome in HIV-associated tuberculous meningitis.
AB  - HIV-associated tuberculous meningitis (TBM) has high mortality. Aside from the devastating impact of multidrug resistance (MDR) on survival, little is understood about the influence of other bacterial factors on outcome. This study examined the influence of Mycobacterium tuberculosis drug resistance, bacterial lineage, and host vaccination status on outcome in patients with HIV-associated TBM. Mycobacterium tuberculosis isolates from the cerebrospinal fluid of 186 patients enrolled in two studies of HIV-associated TBM in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam, were tested for resistance to first-line antituberculosis drugs. Lineage genotyping was available for 122 patients. The influence of antituberculosis drug resistance and M. tuberculosis lineage on 9-month mortality was analyzed using Kaplan-Meier survival analysis and Cox multiple regression models. Isoniazid (INH) resistance without rifampin resistance was associated with increased mortality (adjusted hazard ratio [HR], 1.78, 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.18 to 2.66; P = 0.005), and multidrug resistance was uniformly fatal (n = 8/8; adjusted HR, 5.21, 95% CI, 2.38 to 11.42; P < 0.0001). The hazard ratio for INH-resistant cases was greatest during the continuation phase of treatment (after 3 months; HR, 5.05 [95% CI, 2.23 to 11.44]; P = 0.0001). Among drug-susceptible cases, patients infected with the "modern" Beijing lineage strains had lower mortality than patients infected with the "ancient" Indo-Oceanic lineage (HR, 0.29 [95% CI, 0.14 to 0.61]; P = 0.001). Isoniazid resistance, multidrug resistance, and M. tuberculosis lineage are important determinants of mortality in patients with HIV-associated TBM. Interventions which target these factors may help reduce the unacceptably high mortality in patients with TBM.

UI  - 22467670
TI  - Meta-analysis of clinical studies supports the pharmacokinetic variability hypothesis for acquired drug resistance and failure of antituberculosis therapy.
AB  - Pharmacokinetic variability to a single drug in the regimen is significantly associated with failure of therapy and ADR in patients. This suggests that individualized dosing for tuberculosis may be more effective than standardized dosing, which is prescribed in directly observed therapy programs.

UI  - 22436147
TI  - CD4 lymphocyte dynamics in Tanzanian pulmonary tuberculosis patients with and without HIV co-infection.
AB  - Clinical trials.gov: NCT00311298.

UI  - 22430968
TI  - Phase II dose-ranging trial of the early bactericidal activity of PA-824.
AB  - PA-824 is a novel nitroimidazo-oxazine under evaluation as an antituberculosis agent. A dose-ranging randomized study was conducted to evaluate the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics, and early bactericidal activity of PA-824 in drug-sensitive, sputum smear-positive adult pulmonary-tuberculosis patients to find the lowest dose giving optimal bactericidal activity (EBA). Fifteen patients per cohort received oral PA-824 in doses of 50 mg, 100 mg, 150 mg, or 200 mg per kg body weight per day for 14 days. Eight subjects received once-daily standard antituberculosis treatment with isoniazid, rifampin, pyrazinamide, and ethambutol (HRZE) as a positive control. The primary efficacy endpoint was the mean rate of decline in log CFU of Mycobacterium tuberculosis in sputum incubated on agar plates from serial overnight sputum collections, expressed as log(10) CFU/day/ml sputum ( standard deviation). The mean 14-day EBA of HRZE was consistent with previous studies (0.177  0.042), and that of PA-824 at 50 mg, 100 mg, 150 mg, and 200 mg was 0.063  0.058, 0.091  0.073, 0.078  0.074, and 0.112  0.070, respectively. Although the study was not powered for testing the difference between arms, there was a trend toward significance, indicating a lower EBA at the 50-mg dose. Serum PA-824 levels were approximately dose proportional with respect to the area under the time-concentration curve. All doses were safe and well tolerated with no dose-limiting adverse events or clinically significant QTc changes. A dose of 100 mg to 200 mg PA-824 daily appears to be safe and efficacious and will be further evaluated as a component of novel antituberculosis regimens for drug-sensitive and drug-resistant tuberculosis.

UI  - 22423128
TI  - Rhabdomyolysis in a patient treated with linezolid for extensively drug-resistant tuberculosis.
AB  - 

UI  - 22419641
TI  - Isoniazid vs. rifampin for latent tuberculosis infection in jail inmates: toxicity and adherence.
AB  - This open-label randomized trial compared isoniazid (9 months) to rifampin (4 months) on toxicity and completion in a jailed population with latent tuberculosis infection. Rifampin resulted in fewer elevated liver function tests (risk ratio [RR] 0.39, 95% confidence interval [CI] [0.18, 0.86]) and less toxicity requiring medication withdrawal (RR 0.51, 95% CI [0.13, 2.01]), although one participant receiving rifampin experienced an allergic reaction. Completion was achieved for 33% receiving rifampin compared to 26% receiving isoniazid (p = .10). With careful monitoring rifampin is a safe and less toxic regimen and appears to be a reasonable alternative because of its shorter duration, allowing more people to complete treatment behind bars. Therapy completion in released inmates is unacceptably low and ensuring follow-up after discharge must be part of a decision to treat.

UI  - 22410137
TI  - Latent tuberculosis infection treatment for prison inmates: a randomised controlled trial.
AB  - 4R is safer and has a higher completion rate than 6H as treatment for LTBI among male prison inmates.

UI  - 22406155
TI  - Anti-phospholipid antibody levels as biomarker for monitoring tuberculosis treatment response.
AB  - Standard methods to monitor tuberculosis (TB) treatment response rely on sputum microscopy and culture conversion. Alternatives to these methods are needed for those patients whose sputum tests are smear or culture negative. Here, we examine anti-phospholipid IgM antibody level changes as a biomarker for treatment response in smear positive TB patients. Serum samples were obtained from 40 pulmonary TB patients at the start and end of the intensive phase treatment (IPT) from the CDC-TB Trials Consortium randomized clinical trial in Kampala, Uganda. Samples were screened by ELISA for IgM levels against five phospholipids found in Mycobacterium tuberculosis and host cells. Lipid antigens included cardiolipin (CL), phosphatidyl inositol (PI), phosphatidyl ethanolamine (PE), phosphatidyl choline (PTC), and sphingolipid (SL). Levels of IgM against all phospholipids significantly decreased (p=0.034, 0.001, 0.008 0.008, 0.040, respectively) following anti-TB drug treatment in patients without lung cavitary disease at baseline. The mean sensitivity of this test in these patients was 83% when the IgM response to a single lipid antigen was used; it was >90% when responses to 2 or more lipids were assessed. In contrast, cavitary TB patients showed an overall IgM increase, with a significant rise against PE (p=0.025). There was no significant difference in the change in antibody levels between patients who remained culture-positive and those who culture-converted after 40 doses of drug therapy. The measurement of IgM anti-phospholipid antibodies may be a useful biomarker to monitor treatment response in non-cavitary TB patients.

UI  - 22403070
TI  - Factors contributing to the high prevalence of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis: a study from China.
AB  - Inappropriate treatment is the most important influencing factor of MDR-TB. Increasing people's awareness of TB, early detection and appropriate treatment of patients with TB should become a priority, which requires strong commitment and collaboration among health organisations and greater compliance with TB treatment guidelines by service providers and patients.

UI  - 22401962
TI  - Identifying multidrug resistant tuberculosis transmission hotspots using routinely collected data.
AB  - In most countries with large drug resistant tuberculosis epidemics, only those cases that are at highest risk of having MDRTB receive a drug sensitivity test (DST) at the time of diagnosis. Because of this prioritized testing, identification of MDRTB transmission hotspots in communities where TB cases do not receive DST is challenging, as any observed aggregation of MDRTB may reflect systematic differences in how testing is distributed in communities. We introduce a new disease mapping method, which estimates this missing information through probability-weighted locations, to identify geographic areas of increased risk of MDRTB transmission. We apply this method to routinely collected data from two districts in Lima, Peru over three consecutive years. This method identifies an area in the eastern part of Lima where previously untreated cases have increased risk of MDRTB. This may indicate an area of increased transmission of drug resistant disease, a finding that may otherwise have been missed by routine analysis of programmatic data. The risk of MDR among retreatment cases is also highest in these probable transmission hotspots, though a high level of MDR among retreatment cases is present throughout the study area. Identifying potential multidrug resistant tuberculosis (MDRTB) transmission hotspots may allow for targeted investigation and deployment of resources.

UI  - 22391540
TI  - Randomized pilot trial of eight weeks of bedaquiline (TMC207) treatment for multidrug-resistant tuberculosis: long-term outcome, tolerability, and effect on emergence of drug resistance.
AB  - The 2-year follow-up results for a randomized placebo-controlled study of 47 patients with multidrug-resistant pulmonary tuberculosis treated with either the new diarylquinoline TMC207, recently renamed bedaquiline, or placebo, added to the first 8 weeks of a background regimen, are presented. Bedaquiline significantly reduced the time to culture conversion over 24 weeks (hazard ratio, 2.253; 95% confidence interval, 1.08 to 4.71; P = 0.031). With the exception of nausea reported in 26% of patients receiving bedaquiline and none receiving placebo, adverse events occurred at similar frequencies in both groups of patients: bilateral hearing impairment, extremity pain, acne, and noncardiac chest pain occurred in 13 and 21%, 17 and 13%, 9 and 17%, and 4 and 17% of patients, respectively, receiving bedaquiline or placebo. Excluding resistance to ethambutol and ethionamide, only one patient receiving bedaquiline acquired resistance to companion drugs, but five patients receiving placebo (4.8% versus 21.7%; P = 0.18) acquired resistance to companion drugs, and resistance to ofloxacin was acquired in four patients receiving placebo and none receiving bedaquiline (0% versus 22%; 0 = 0.066). In all, 23 patients (49%), including 13 receiving placebo (54%) and 10 receiving bedaquiline (44%), discontinued the study prior to its completion, 12 during the first 24 weeks of treatment. Eight subjects were withdrawn for noncompliance or default, and seven withdrew consent, citing the rigorous program of investigations for safety and pharmacokinetic monitoring. Bedaquiline may contribute to the management of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis by effecting more rapid sputum culture negativity and by preventing acquired resistance to companion drugs.

UI  - 22390880
TI  - First- and second-line anti-tuberculosis drug resistance in Northwest Ethiopia.
AB  - A substantial number of new and previously treated cases harbour MDR-TB. We recommend DST at least for previously treated cases, patients who remain smear-positive at the end of the second month of treatment and patients in close contact with MDR-TB cases. Improved infection control measures need to be implemented in Ethiopia.

UI  - 22365154
TI  - Tuberculosis control in a highly endemic indigenous community in Brazil.
AB  - In Latin America, indigenous populations have high rates of non-completion of TB treatment and case fatality and have been defined as a priority group for investments. To evaluate TB control, a retrospective cohort study was performed to identify factors predictive of non-completion of treatment and mortality in an indigenous and non-indigenous population between 2002 and 2008 in Dourados, Brazil. A 90% reduction in non-completion of TB treatment was observed in the indigenous population after DOTS (directly observed treatment, short course) implementation (20% vs 2%). In the non-indigenous population, the number of patients not completing TB treatment continued to increase. Non-indigenous TB patients had 4.5 times higher mortality than indigenous TB patients (9% vs 2%). In multivariate analysis, non-indigenous race [odds ratio (OR) 2.33, 95% CI 1.32-4.10] was associated with non-completion of TB treatment, and HIV-positive status (OR 5.58, 95% CI 2.38-13.07) was associated with mortality. Implementation of DOTS in the indigenous populations in Dourados showed a significant reduction in non-completion of TB treatment. Nevertheless, a high rate of TB in children and young adults indicates the continuous transmission and maintenance of the epidemic in this community. Among the non-indigenous population, the TB case fatality rate is closely linked to the HIV prevalence.

UI  - 22341855
TI  - Genetic variants in antioxidant pathway: risk factors for hepatotoxicity in tuberculosis patients.
AB  - Tuberculosis (TB) treatment can cause serious sequelae including adverse effects such as anti-TB drug-induced hepatotoxicity (ATDH). We performed a candidate gene-based association study between single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in 10 genes in the antioxidant pathway and ATDH susceptibility. The subjects comprised 100 Japanese patients with pulmonary TB who received a treatment regimen including isoniazid and rifampicin. Out of them, 18 patients had ATDH. Thirty-four tag SNPs in 10 genes were analyzed by PCR-restriction fragment length polymorphism or PCR-direct DNA sequencing. The frequencies of alleles and genotypes between patients with and without ATDH were compared in three different genetic models. Statistical analyses revealed that a C/C genotype at rs11080344 in NOS2A, a C/C genotype at rs2070401 in BACH1, and a G/A or A/A genotype at rs4720833 in MAFK independently conferred ATDH susceptibility. Remarkably, the association of the latter two tag SNPs with ATDH susceptibility was highly statistically significant (P=0.0006) with an odds ratio of 9.730. This study is the first report to demonstrate that NOS2A, BACH1, and MAFK appear to be genetic determinants of ATDH in Japanese patients with TB. Furthermore, a combination of BACH1 and MAFK polymorphisms may be useful as new biomarkers to identify high-risk Japanese TB patients for ATDH.

UI  - 22330931
TI  - Pharmacokinetics of rifampin in Peruvian tuberculosis patients with and without comorbid diabetes or HIV.
AB  - For drug-compliant patients, poor responses to tuberculosis (TB) treatment might be attributable to subtherapeutic drug concentrations. An impaired absorption of rifampin was previously reported for patients with diabetes mellitus (DM) or HIV. The objectives of this study were to determine whether TB drug pharmacokinetics differed in Peruvian TB patients with DM or HIV. In this cross-sectional study, TB patients, recruited from health centers in Lima, Peru, had blood samples taken at 2 and 6 h after directly observed TB drug ingestion, to determine plasma concentrations of rifampin. Of 105 patients, 50 had TB without a comorbidity, 26 had coexistent DM, and 29 had coexistent HIV. Unexpectedly, the overall median 2- and 6-h levels of rifampin were 1.6 and 3.2 mg/liter, respectively, and the time to the peak concentration was 6 h (slow absorber) instead of 2 h (fast absorber) for 61 patients (62.2%). The geometric mean peak concentration of drug in serum (C(max)) was significantly higher in fast absorbers than in slow absorbers (5.0 versus 3.8 mg/liter; P = 0.05). The rifampin C(max) was significantly lower in male patients than in female patients (3.3 versus 6.3 mg/liter; P < 0.001). Neither slow nor fast absorbers with comorbidities (DM or HIV) had significantly different C(max) results compared to those of TB patients without comorbidities. An analysis of variance regression analysis showed that female gender (P < 0.001) and the time to maximum concentration of drug in serum (T(max)) at 2 h (P = 0.012) were independently correlated with increased exposure to rifampin. Most of this Peruvian study population exhibited rifampin pharmacokinetics different from those conventionally reported, with delayed absorption and low plasma concentrations, independent of the presence of an HIV or DM comorbidity.

UI  - 22325844
TI  - Effect of HIV infection on tolerability and bacteriologic outcomes of tuberculosis treatment.
AB  - HIV-infected persons not receiving ART had more adverse events during the intensive phase of anti-tuberculosis treatment, but tolerated treatment well. Failure rates were higher among HIV-infected persons treated with thrice-weekly intensive phase therapy.

UI  - 22317983
TI  - Blood levels of pyrazinamide in children at doses administered under the Revised National Tuberculosis Control Program.
AB  - Lower blood concentrations are being attained in children receiving PZA doses under the existing weight band system of RNTCP of India. The weight bands may need to be revised and dose recommendations be based on pharmacokinetic and efficacy data in children.

UI  - 22299414
TI  - Tuberculosis treatment with mobile-phone medication reminders in northern Thailand.
AB  - Thailand's implementation of the Directly Observed Treatment, Short course (DOTS) strategy to increase tuberculosis (TB) control program efficacy has not achieved the World Health Organization (WHO) TB key targets. We defined two TB control models in the study. Patients in Model 1 were treated with a conventional DOTS strategy and in Model 2, patients were treated the same as Model method 1 but were given a phone call reminder to take their medication. Multi-drug resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) and non-MDR-TB patients were randomized into either Model 1 or 2. Treatment outcomes were given as cure rates, completion rates, failure rates or success rates at 18 months in the MDR-TB group and 6 months in the non-MDR-TB group. The sputum conversion rate at 1 month were evaluated for both groups. In the MDR-TB group, the sputum conversion rate was 20% (95% CI 8-45) in Model 1 and 90% (95% CI 73-98) in Model 2 (p < 0.001). In the non-MDR-TB group, the sputum conversion rate was 52% (95% CI 36-70) in Model 1 and 37% (95% CI 22-56) in Model 2 although the difference was not significant (p = 0.221). The Model 2 success rates were significantly higher (73.7%, 96.7%) in both the MDR-TB and non-MDR-TB groups (p < 0.001, p = 0.047). The MDR-TB rate in northern Thailand decreased from 4.1% during April-September 2008 to 1.8% during April-September 2009. Further study of the association between implementation of Model 2 and MDR-TB incidence reduction needs to be carried out.

UI  - 22294252
TI  - [Cervical lymph node tuberculosis in Libreville: epidemiology, diagnosis, and therapy].
AB  - Cervical lymph node tuberculosis is a common ailment. Excisional lymph node biopsy has a twofold interest -therapeutic and diagnostic. It is based on histological examination, which must henceforth be systematic. Tuberculosis is a major HIV-related opportunistic infection and must be screened for or monitored at every HIV check-up.

UI  - 22283892
TI  - Potential cost-effectiveness of rifampin vs. isoniazid for latent tuberculosis: implications for future clinical trials.
AB  - 4RMP may be a reasonable alternative to 9INH. Costs of a large-scale non-inferiority trial may be offset by subsequent savings.

UI  - 22283887
TI  - Bacteriologic monitoring of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis patients in five DOTS-Plus pilot projects.
AB  - Prolonged treatment for patients with delayed conversion may be beneficial, as 71% of late converters still achieved cure or completed treatment. This has implications for programs with de ned end points for treatment failure. The interval between rst and nal conversion among patients whose initial con- version is not sustained raises concern with respect to the ongoing debate regarding duration of treatment and the definition of cure.

UI  - 22270244
TI  - Drug resistance patterns in 111 cases of drug-resistant tuberculosis spine.
AB  - It is recommended to do routine biopsy, culture and drug sensitivity testing in all patients of tuberculosis spine to guide selection of appropriate second-line drugs when required. In cases of non availability of drug susceptibility testing despite repeated attempts, it is suggested to use data from large series such as this to plan best empirical chemotherapy protocol.

UI  - 22258485
TI  - Influence of replacing tuberculin skin test with ex vivo interferon  release assays on decision to administer prophylactic antituberculosis antibiotics before anti-TNF therapy.
AB  - Replacing TST with IGRA for determining LTBI allowed the proportion of patients with immune-mediated inflammatory diseases needing prophylactic anti-TB antibiotics before beginning anti-TNF agents to be reduced by half.

UI  - 22252827
TI  - A semimechanistic pharmacokinetic-enzyme turnover model for rifampin autoinduction in adult tuberculosis patients.
AB  - The currently recommended doses of rifampin are believed to be at the lower end of the dose-response curve. Rifampin induces its own metabolism, although the effect of dose on the extent of autoinduction is not known. This study aimed to investigate rifampin autoinduction using a semimechanistic pharmacokinetic-enzyme turnover model. Four different structural basic models were explored to assess whether different scaling methods affected the final covariate selection procedure. Covariates were selected by using a linearized approach. The final model included the allometric scaling of oral clearance and apparent volume of distribution. Although HIV infection was associated with a 30% increase in the apparent volume of distribution, simulations demonstrated that the effect of HIV on rifampin exposure was slight. Model-based simulations showed close-to-maximum induction achieved after 450-mg daily dosing, since negligible increases in oral clearance were observed following the 600-mg/day regimen. Thus, dosing above 600 mg/day is unlikely to result in higher magnitudes of autoinduction. In a typical 55-kg male without HIV infection, the oral clearance, which was 7.76 liters  h at the first dose, increased 1.82- and 1.85-fold at steady state after daily dosing with 450 and 600 mg, respectively. Corresponding reductions of 41 and 42%, respectively, in the area under the concentration-versus-time curve from 0 to 24 h were estimated. The turnover of the inducible process was estimated to have a half-life of approximately 8 days in a typical patient. Assuming 5 half-lives to steady state, this corresponds to a duration of approximately 40 days to reach the induced state for rifampin autoinduction.

UI  - 22230257
TI  - Risk factors for prolonged treatment of lymph node tuberculosis.
AB  - Lymph node tuberculosis (LNTB) is the most frequent form of extra-pulmonary tuberculosis (TB). Randomised, controlled trials have convincingly demonstrated that 6 months of chemotherapy is sufficient for most drug-susceptible LNTB. We performed a retrospective, multicentric study from 1997 to 2010 to describe factors associated with prolonged anti-tuberculosis treatment in patients with LNTB. Of 126 patients diagnosed with LNTB, 22 (17.5%) were human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infected. The median treatment duration was 9 months (interquartile range, 6-12). Treatment was significantly longer in patients with HIV (P < 0.01), additional sites of TB (P < 0.01) or weight loss (P = 0.04). Factors independently associated with excessively lengthy treatment were HIV co-infection and the presence of other TB foci.

UI  - 23700932
TI  - [Antituberculosis properties of methyldioxotetrahydropyrimidine sulfonisonicotinoyl hydrazide].
AB  - Antituberculosis properties of methyldioxotetrahydropyrimidine sulfonisonicotinoyl hydrazide (MSH) registered in Russia under the name of tubosan of the class of immunotropic agents were investigated with the use of 78 clinical isolates of Mycobacterium tuberculosis (MBT). In concentration of 60 or 80 mcg/ml the drug showed significant antituberculosis activity. The effect of MSH on drug susceptible MBT was bactericidal. The effect of MSH on the drug resistant MBT (with the isoniazid MIC of 1 mcg/ml) was bactericidal in 75% of the cases and bacteriostatic in 25% of the cases. With the use of MBT resistant to isoniazid in a concentration of 10 mcg/ml the antituberculosis effect was observed in 47% of the cases. The complex treatment of 102 patients with destructive forms of tuberculosis in a daily dose of 800-1200 mg for 2-5 months provided significant clinicoroentgenologic positive dynamics of the process in 75% of the patients. The destructive cavities closed up in 30% of the patients and reduction of the destruction dimentions up to 0.5-2 cm was stated in 45% of the patients. In the control group of 40 patients insignificant dynamics of the destructive processes was observed only in 40% of the patients. Satisfactory tolerability of the drug was registered. The immunity status parameters improved with increase of the total number of T-lymphocytes and phagocytosis indices. The study showed that MSH was efficient in complex therapy of tuberculosis patients allow for increased number of cases with drug resistant tuberculosis.

UI  - 22174748
TI  - Dexamethasone and long-term outcome of tuberculous meningitis in Vietnamese adults and adolescents.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT01317654.

UI  - 22150035
TI  - Three months of rifapentine and isoniazid for latent tuberculosis infection.
AB  - The use of rifapentine plus isoniazid for 3 months was as effective as 9 months of isoniazid alone in preventing tuberculosis and had a higher treatment-completion rate. Long-term safety monitoring will be important. (Funded by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; PREVENT TB ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00023452.).

UI  - 22136739
TI  - Global isoniazid resistance patterns in rifampin-resistant and rifampin-susceptible tuberculosis.
AB  - Following the World Health Organization's endorsement of the Xpert MTB/RIF assay, which rapidly and simultaneously diagnoses tuberculosis (TB) and detects resistance to rifampin (RMP), the question arises to what extent RMP resistance is an adequate marker for multidrug-resistant TB (MDR-TB). A retrospective analysis of data from >81 countries and subnational settings demonstrated that >40% of RMP-resistant isolates from new TB cases did not display resistance to isoniazid (INH) in settings with relatively low MDR-TB prevalence (one third of all countries and subnational settings). Results indicated the need for INH susceptibility testing in addition to RMP susceptibility testing.

UI  - 22136146
TI  - Visual function in patients on ethambutol therapy for tuberculosis.
AB  - Visual acuity, contrast sensitivity, and multifocal ERG are sensitive tests to detect ethambutol toxicity in subclinical stages and hence very useful tools for monitoring patients under ethambutol therapy for ocular toxicity.

UI  - 22114687
TI  - Antiretroviral treatment cohort analysis using time-updated CD4 counts: assessment of bias with different analytic methods.
AB  - The midpoint method presents a simple option to reduce bias in time-updated CD4+ analysis, particularly at low CD4 cell counts and rapidly increasing counts after ART initiation.

UI  - 22111396
TI  - Multi-drug resistant tuberculosis: experiences of two tertiary referral centres.
AB  - Multi-drug resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) is associated with increased morbidity and mortality compared to drug-sensitive disease. Although MDR-TB is infrequent in Ireland, cases continue to be diagnosed in both Irish and foreign-born people. We conducted a clinical audit of 13 MDR-TB patients treated in two tertiary referral centers, the Mercy Hospital, Cork and St James's Hospital, Dublin between 2004 and 2009. The median age was 37 years. Eight patients (61.5%) were foreign-born, five (38.5%) were Irish-born. Seven patients (54%) have now stopped treatment; 6 (86%) were treated successfully and one (14%) defaulted. Mycobacterium tuberculosis isolates were resistant to a median of seven drugs. Eight patients (61.5%) developed ototoxicity from long-term aminoglycoside use. Our patients' treatment outcomes compare favourably with international reports despite a high degree of drug resistance. However, the high incidence of otoxicity is concerning.

UI  - 22108776
TI  - The influence of tuberculosis treatment on efavirenz clearance in patients co-infected with HIV and tuberculosis.
AB  - Unexpectedly, concomitant rifampicin-containing tuberculosis treatment reduced apparent EFV clearance with a corresponding increase in EFV exposure. While the reasons for this interaction require further investigation, cytochrome P450 2B6 polymorphisms in the population studied may provide some explanation.

UI  - 22093812
TI  - Pilot assessment of supply chains for pharmaceuticals and medical commodities for malaria, tuberculosis and HIV infection in Ethiopia.
AB  - To obtain preliminary data on the drug supply management system in Ethiopia, selected facilities were assessed for the availability of essential drugs and commodities for malaria, TB and HIV. Of the 48 surveyed hospitals and health centers, 9 (19%), 9 (19%) and 10 (21%) did not have malaria, TB or HIV drugs, respectively. Similarly, of 27 health posts, 9 (33%) and 6 (22%) did not have rapid diagnostic tests and antimalarial drugs, respectively. The findings indicated an inadequate availability of essential drugs and commodities in the surveyed facilities as well as weaknesses in human resources and training. Assessments of commodity supply chains to ensure operational program success and impact are important.

UI  - 22039966
TI  - A randomized trial of multivitamin supplementation in children with tuberculosis in Tanzania.
AB  - Multivitamin supplementation for a short duration of eight weeks improved the hematological profile of children with tuberculosis, though it didn't have any effect on weight gain, the primary outcome of the trial. Larger studies with a longer period of supplementation are needed to confirm these findings and assess the effect of multivitamins on clinical outcomes including treatment success and growth failure. CLINICALTRIALS.GOV IDENTIFIER: NCT00145184.

UI  - 22010915
TI  - Integration of antiretroviral therapy with tuberculosis treatment.
AB  - Early initiation of ART in patients with CD4+ T-cell counts of less than 50 per cubic millimeter increased AIDS-free survival. Deferral of the initiation of ART to the first 4 weeks of the continuation phase of tuberculosis therapy in those with higher CD4+ T-cell counts reduced the risks of IRIS and other adverse events related to ART without increasing the risk of AIDS or death. (Funded by the U.S. President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief and others; SAPIT ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00398996.).

UI  - 22010914
TI  - Timing of antiretroviral therapy for HIV-1 infection and tuberculosis.
AB  - Overall, earlier ART did not reduce the rate of new AIDS-defining illness and death, as compared with later ART. In persons with CD4+ T-cell counts of less than 50 per cubic millimeter, earlier ART was associated with a lower rate of new AIDS-defining illnesses and death. (Funded by the National Institutes of Health and others; ACTG A5221 ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00108862.).

UI  - 22010913
TI  - Earlier versus later start of antiretroviral therapy in HIV-infected adults with tuberculosis.
AB  - Initiating ART 2 weeks after the start of tuberculosis treatment significantly improved survival among HIV-infected adults with CD4+ T-cell counts of 200 per cubic millimeter or lower. (Funded by the French National Agency for Research on AIDS and Viral Hepatitis and the National Institutes of Health; CAMELIA ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT01300481.).

UI  - 22008772
TI  - Frequency and type of microbiological monitoring of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis treatment.
AB  - Monthly culture is usually recommended to monitor treatment of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB). As mycobacterial laboratory capacity is limited in many settings, TB programs need evidence to decide whether monthly cultures are necessary compared to other approaches. We simulated three alternative monitoring strategies (culture every 2 or 3 months, and monthly smears alone) in a cohort of MDR-TB patients in Estonia, Latvia, Philippines, Russia and Peru from 2000 to 2004. This retrospective analysis illustrated that less frequent testing delays confirmation of bacteriological conversion. This would prolong intensive treatment, hospitalization and respiratory isolation, increasing cost and toxicity. After conversion, less frequent testing could delay diagnosis of possible treatment failure.

UI  - 21968358
TI  - Pharmacokinetics of isoniazid, rifampin, and pyrazinamide in children younger than two years of age with tuberculosis: evidence for implementation of revised World Health Organization recommendations.
AB  - The World Health Organization (WHO) recently issued revised first-line antituberculosis (anti-TB) drug dosage recommendations for children. No pharmacokinetic studies for these revised dosages are available for children <2 years. The aim of the study was to document the pharmacokinetics of the first-line anti-TB agents in children <2 years of age comparing previous and revised WHO dosages of isoniazid (INH; 5 versus 10 mg/kg/day), rifampin (RMP; 10 versus 15 mg/kg/day), and pyrazinamide (PZA; 25 versus 35 mg/kg/day) and to investigate the effects of clinical covariates, including HIV coinfection, nutritional status, age, gender, and type of tuberculosis (TB), and the effect of NAT2 acetylator status. Serum INH, PZA, and RMP levels were prospectively assessed in 20 children <2 years of age treated for TB following the previous and the revised WHO dosage recommendations. Samples were taken prior to dosing and at 0.5, 1.5, 3, and 5 h following dosing. The maximum drug concentration in serum (C(max)), the time to C(max) (t(max)), and the area under the concentration-time curve (AUC) were calculated. Eleven children had pulmonary and 9 had extrapulmonary TB. Five were HIV infected. The mean C(max) (g/ml) following the administration of previous/revised dosages were as follows: INH, 3.19/8.11; RMP, 6.36/11.69; PZA, 29.94/47.11. The mean AUC (gh/ml) were as follows: INH, 8.09/20.36; RMP, 17.78/36.95; PZA, 118.0/175.2. The mean C(max) and AUC differed significantly between doses. There was no difference in the t(max) values achieved. Children less than 2 years of age achieve target concentrations of first-line anti-TB agents using revised WHO dosage recommendations. Our data provided supportive evidence for the implementation of the revised WHO guidelines for first-line anti-TB therapy in young children.

UI  - 21965225
TI  - Linezolid: an effective, safe and cheap drug for patients failing multidrug-resistant tuberculosis treatment in India.
AB  - Linezolid is identified as an effective drug with which to treat patients failing multidrug-resistant (MDR)-tuberculosis (TB) treatment. However, cost and safety are the concerns. In India, the average price of a 600-mg pill of linezolid is less than one US dollar, much cheaper than most of the third-line drugs. A prospective study of 29 MDR-TB treatment failure patients (16 with laboratory-proven extensively drug-resistant (XDR)-TB and the remaining 13 with MDR-TB with resistance to any quinolone but sensitive to injectables) was carried out in Delhi, India. All patients received daily unsupervised therapy with linezolid, one injectable agent, one fluoroquinolone and two or more other drugs. Patients received a median of six anti-mycobacterial agents. Besides linezolid, capreomycin, moxifloxacin, levofloxacin and amoxycillin-clavulanic acid were used in 41.4%, 58.6%, 41.4%, and 79.3% of patients. Out of a total of 29 patients, 89.7% patients achieved sputum smear and culture conversion; 72.4% showed interim favourable outcome; 10.3% died, 6.8% failed and 10.3% patients defaulted. Linezolid had to be stopped in three (10.3%) patients due to adverse reactions. The outcome of treatment of 16 XDR-TB patients was comparable to the other 13 MDR-TB patients. Linezolid is an effective, cheap and relatively safe drug for patients failing MDR-TB treatment, including those with confirmed XDR-TB.

UI  - 21907605
TI  - Tuberculosis and diabetes in Guyana.
AB  - This study clearly highlights that diabetes and HIV are frequent in Guyanese TB patients. Routine screening of TB patients for diabetes and diabetic patients for TB should be speedily implemented. The National TB Programme should work closely with the diabetes clinics so that TB patients who are diabetics are optimally managed.

UI  - 21902071
TI  - British HIV Association national audit on the management of patients co-infected with tuberculosis and HIV.
AB  - This audit aims to compare UK management of tuberculosis (TB)/HIV co-infection with recommended practice and to describe local care arrangements. Services providing HIV care were invited to complete a survey of care arrangements and to review case notes of HIV positive patients aged over 16 who started therapy for active TB between October 2007 and April 2008. Corresponding TB services, if separate, were invited to complete a similar survey. Responses were received from 124 of 170 HIV services, and 18 corresponding TB services. Data were obtained for 236 coinfected patients. Despite some incomplete data, this audit yielded useful findings. Many positive smear results were unacceptably delayed. The TB therapy completion rate fell short of the chief medical officer's (CMO's) 85% target. Culture confirmation of pulmonary TB met the CMO's 65% target. A high number of patients were diagnosed with HIV during investigation of TB. Contrary to current guidelines, many services do not routinely test TB patients for HIV.

UI  - 21890776
TI  - Efficacy and safety of once-daily nevirapine- or efavirenz-based antiretroviral therapy in HIV-associated tuberculosis: a randomized clinical trial.
AB  - Compared with a regimen of didanosine, lamivudine, and EFV, a regimen of once-daily didanosine, lamivudine, and NVP was inferior and was associated with more frequent virologic failure and death. Clinical Trials Registration. NCT00332306.

UI  - 21886778
TI  - Treatment of tuberculosis in a region with high drug resistance: outcomes, drug resistance amplification and re-infection.
AB  - In Abkhazia, a region with high prevalence of drug resistant TB, the use of individualized MDR-TB treatment regimens resulted in poor treatment outcomes and XDR-TB amplification. Nosocomial transmission of MDR-TB emphasizes the importance of infection control in hospitals.

UI  - 21877185
TI  - Speciation analysis of bromine-containing drug metabolites in feces samples from a human in vivo study by means of HPLC/ICP-MS combined with on-line isotope dilution.
AB  - The aim of this work was speciation analysis of metabolites in feces samples collected within a clinical study during which a bromine-containing anti-tuberculosis drug (TMC207) was administered to patients with multi-drug resistant tuberculosis infection. Owing to slow elimination of the drug, no (14)C label was used within this study. Quantification of the bromine species was accomplished using high performance liquid chromatography coupled to inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry (HPLC/ICP-MS) in combination with on-line isotope dilution (on-line ID), while structural elucidation of the species was performed using HPLC coupled to electrospray ionization-mass spectrometry. The ICP-MS-based method developed shows a good intra- and inter-day reproducibility (relative standard deviation = 3.5%, N = 9); the limit of detection (1.5 mg TMC207 L(-1)) is of the same order of magnitude as that for HPLC/radiodetection; the dynamic range of the method covers more than two orders of magnitude. Furthermore, the column recovery was demonstrated to be quantitative (recoveries between 90.6% and 99.5%). Based on the excellent figures of merit, the "cold" HPLC/ICP-MS approach could be deployed for the actual human in vivo metabolism study, such that exposure of the human volunteers to the (14)C radiolabel was avoided.

UI  - 21849285
TI  - A randomized trial of punctuated antiretroviral therapy in Ugandan HIV-seropositive adults with pulmonary tuberculosis and CD4 T-cell counts of  350 cells/L.
AB  - Short-term antiretroviral therapy during tuberculosis treatment in patients with CD4T-cell counts of >350 cells/L was safe and associated with clinical benefits.

UI  - 21814190
TI  - Effect of rifampicin and CYP2B6 genotype on long-term efavirenz autoinduction and plasma exposure in HIV patients with or without tuberculosis.
AB  - We performed a prospective comparative study to examine, from a pharmacogenetics perspective, the effect of rifampicin (RIF) on long-term efavirenz (EFV) autoinduction and kinetics. In a study population of patients with HIV receiving EFV with RIF (arm 2, n = 54) or without RIF (arm 1, n = 128 controls), intraindividual and interindividual plasma EFV and 8-hydroxyefavirenz levels were compared at weeks 4 and 16 of EFV therapy. In arm 2, RIF was initiated 4 weeks before starting EFV. In controls (arm 1), the plasma EFV was significantly lower whereas 8-hydroxyefavirenz was higher at week 16 as compared to week 4. By contrast, there were no significant differences in plasma EFV and 8-hydroxyefavirenz concentrations over time in arm 2. At week 4, the plasma EFV concentration was significantly lower in arm 2 as compared to arm 1, but no significant differences were observed by week 16. When stratified by CYP2B6 genotype, significant differences were observed only with respect to CYP2B6*1/*1 genotypes. Ours is the first report of the CYP2B6 genotype-dependent effect of RIF on long-term EFV autoinduction.

UI  - 21810750
TI  - Treatment outcomes of isoniazid-resistant tuberculosis patients, Western Cape Province, South Africa.
AB  - We report treatment outcomes from a retrospective cohort of patients with isoniazid-monoresistant tuberculosis in rural South Africa. Sixteen percent of patients had poor outcomes, 61% of whom progressed to multidrug-resistant tuberculosis. These data reveal the need for early identification and aggressive follow-up of isoniazid monoresistance to increase treatment success.

UI  - 21799728
TI  - Outcomes of multi-drug resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) among a cohort of South African patients with high HIV prevalence.
AB  - In this MDR-TB treatment program patients with HIV infection and low weight had higher hazards of death. Overall treatment outcomes were poor. Efforts to improve treatment for MDR-TB are urgently needed.

UI  - 21740675
TI  - Acute respiratory distress syndrome caused by miliary tuberculosis: a multicentre survey in South Korea.
AB  - ARDS caused by miliary TB was associated with a high in-hospital mortality rate, with SOFA score on the day of ARDS diagnosis being a valuable prognostic indicator.

UI  - 21729372
TI  - The effect of energy-protein supplementation on weight, body composition and handgrip strength among pulmonary tuberculosis HIV-co-infected patients: randomised controlled trial in Mwanza, Tanzania.
AB  - Undernutrition is common among smear-positive pulmonary tuberculosis (PTB+) patients. Micronutrient supplementation may improve treatment outcomes, but it is unclear whether additional energy-protein would be beneficial. The present study aimed to assess the effect of energy-protein supplementation on weight, body composition and handgrip strength against a background of high micronutrient intake during tuberculosis (TB) treatment. A total of 377 PTB+ patients co-infected with HIV were randomly allocated one or six biscuits daily for 60d during TB treatment. Weight, arm fat area, arm muscle area and handgrip strength were assessed at baseline and 2 and 5 months. There were no effects on any outcome at 2 months, but energy-protein supplementation was associated with a 13 (95% CI -01, 28)kg marginally significant gain in handgrip strength at 5 months. However, after 2 months, energy-protein supplementation led to a weight gain of 19 (95% CI 01, 37)kg among patients with cluster of differentiation 4 (CD4) counts 350cells/l, but not among patients with low CD4 counts (-02kg; 95% CI -13, 08, Pinteraction=003). Similarly, at 5 months, energy-protein supplementation led to a 23 (95% CI 06, 41)kg higher handgrip strength gain among patients with CD4 counts <350cells/l, but not in those with high CD4 counts (Pinteraction=004). In conclusion, energy-protein supplementation to PTB+ HIV-co-infected patients had no overall effects on weight and body composition, but was associated with marginally significant gain in handgrip strength. More research is needed to develop an effective supplement, before it is recommended to TB programmes.

UI  - 21713351
TI  - [Clinical, epidemiological and microbiological characteristics of a cohort of pulmonary tuberculosis patients in Cali, Colombia].
AB  - Delay in tuberculosis diagnosis was identified as a risk factor for treatment compliance failure. The study population had similar baseline epidemiologic characteristics to those described in other cohort studies.

UI  - 21712242
TI  - Determination of rifabutin dosing regimen when administered in combination with ritonavir-boosted atazanavir.
AB  - The benefits to HIV/TB co-infected patients receiving rifabutin 150 mg three times weekly or every other day may outweigh the risks of neutropenia observed here in non-HIV-infected subjects, provided that patients on combination therapy will be closely monitored for safety and tolerability.

UI  - 21706943
TI  - Hepatotoxicity in patients co-infected with tuberculosis and HIV-1 while receiving non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor-based antiretroviral therapy and rifampicin-containing anti-tuberculosis regimen.
AB  - To evaluate the rate of and risk factors for hepatotoxicity in tuberculosis (TB) and human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) co-infected patients while receiving non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI)-based antiretroviral therapy (ART) and a rifampicin (RMP)-containing anti-TB regimen. We analyzed data from the N2R study which was an open label, randomized, comparative trial comparing treatment outcomes between 71 TB/HIV-1 co-infected patients receiving efavirenz (EFV)-based and nevirapine (NVP)-based ART; all of whom were receiving RMP-containing anti-TB treatment. Demographic data, liver function test, CD4 cell count, plasma HIV-1 RNA, hepatitis B surface antigen and anti-hepatitis C virus antibody were collected before initiating ART (week 0). Liver enzymes and total bilirubin levels were monitored at 6 weeks, 12 weeks and 24 weeks after ART initiation. All patients were followed until TB therapy was completed. Of 142 patients, 8 patients were excluded. Among the remaining 134 patients, the mean+/-SD age was 36.8+/-8.6 years and 67.2% were male. Severe hepatotoxicity (grade 3 or 4) developed in 4 patients (2.9%); 3 patients (4.6%) in the NVP group and 1 patient (1.4%) in the EFV group. Severe hyperbilirubinemia (grade 3 or 4) occurred in 7 patients (5.2%); 5 patients (7.7%) in the NVP group and 2 patients (2.9%) in the EFV group. Grade 1 or 2 hepatotoxicity occurred in 34 patients (31.4%). Hepatitis C virus co-infection (adjusted OR 3.03; 95%CI 1.26-7.29) was an independent risk factor associated with grade 1-4 hepatotoxicity (p=0.013). Monitoring of hepatotoxicity should be considered in TB/HIV-1 co-infected patients who are infected with HCV and receiving NVP.

UI  - 21685540
TI  - Efavirenz and rifampicin in the South African context: is there a need to dose-increase efavirenz with concurrent rifampicin therapy?
AB  - EFV concentrations were significantly increased in the EFV 800 mg group on RFN. There was no significant decrease in EFV concentrations when on RFN in the 600 mg group. Dose escalation of EFV 600 mg to 800 mg is not required during concomitant TB therapy in South Africa.

UI  - 21682970
TI  - Early bactericidal activity of delamanid (OPC-67683) in smear-positive pulmonary tuberculosis patients.
AB  - Delamanid at all dosages was safe, well tolerated and demonstrated significant exposure-dependent EBA over 14 days, supporting further investigation of its pharmacokinetics and anti-tuberculosis activity.

UI  - 21669029
TI  - Programmatic management of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis: models from three countries.
AB  - It is recommended that all programs providing MDR-TB treatment address these six areas during program development and implementation.

UI  - 21642291
TI  - Multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) treatment in the UK: a study of injectable use and toxicity in practice.
AB  - There is local variation in both the choice of injectable agent and in ototoxicity screening practices. Long-term morbidity from injectable treatment is significant even in this well-resourced setting, and the data suggest capreomycin might be associated with less ototoxicity when compared with amikacin. There is a need for more high-quality clinical data to inform future guidelines for treatment and monitoring.

UI  - 21628697
TI  - The role of aspirin in childhood tuberculous meningitis.
AB  - Arterial stroke is the main cause of poor outcome in childhood tuberculous meningitis. Aspirin has an antithrombotic action at low dose and anti-ischemic and anti-inflammatory properties, which are dose-related. The aim of the study was to explore the possible benefits of aspirin in children with tuberculous meningitis. A total of 146 consecutive children with a diagnosis of probable tuberculous meningitis were studied. Patients were randomized into 3 groups: (1) placebo group, (2) low-dose aspirin group, and (3) high-dose aspirin group. Twenty-nine additional patients who received aspirin before admission were excluded from the randomized study, but continued on low-dose aspirin. Aspirin, irrespective of dose, did not show any significant benefit regarding morbidity (hemiparesis and developmental outcome) and mortality. Aspirin was well tolerated, but 1 death was probably related to aspirin. The fact that the outcome of the high-dose aspirin group compared favorably with the other treatment groups despite younger age and more severe neurological involvement at baseline needs further investigation.

UI  - 21623039
TI  - Outcome of standardized treatment for patients with MDR-TB from Tamil Nadu, India.
AB  - Outcomes of this small group of MDR-TB patients treated with the RNTCP's STR is encouraging in this setting. Close attention needs to be paid to ensure adherence, and to the timely recognition and treatment of ADRs.

UI  - 21596680
TI  - Timing of initiation of antiretroviral therapy in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)--associated tuberculous meningitis.
AB  - Immediate ART initiation does not improve outcome in patients presenting with HIV-associated tuberculous meningitis. There were significantly more grade 4 adverse events in the immediate ART arm, supporting delayed initiation of ART in HIV-associated tuberculous meningitis. Clinical Trials Registration. ISRCTN63659091.

UI  - 21575299
TI  - Risk of tuberculosis among contacts of isoniazid-resistant and isoniazid-susceptible cases.
AB  - The baseline prevalence of tuberculous infection was substantially higher in contacts of INH-resistant than INH-susceptible patients, but the incidence of tuberculous disease over a 15-year follow-up was similar in the two series, and twice as high as in non-contacts.

UI  - 21575292
TI  - Results at 30 months of a randomised trial of two 8-month regimens for the treatment of tuberculosis.
AB  - These results confirm earlier findings demonstrating the inferiority of the INH+EMB-based regimens to the standard 6-month regimen. The WHO has withdrawn its recommendation of these regimens.

UI  - 21575187
TI  - Mortality and associated risk factors in a cohort of tuberculosis patients treated under DOTS programme in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.
AB  - Most of the patients were died at the end of treatment period. This underlines the need for devising a mechanism of standardizing the existing DOTS programme and nutritional support for underweight patients for better clinical and treatment outcome.

UI  - 21507477
TI  - Feasibility, diagnostic accuracy, and effectiveness of decentralised use of the Xpert MTB/RIF test for diagnosis of tuberculosis and multidrug resistance: a multicentre implementation study.
AB  - Foundation for Innovative New Diagnostics, Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, European and Developing Countries Clinical Trials Partnership (TA2007.40200.009), Wellcome Trust (085251/B/08/Z), and UK Department for International Development.

UI  - 21502621
TI  - Randomized pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic comparison of fluoroquinolones for tuberculous meningitis.
AB  - Tuberculous meningitis (TBM) is the most lethal form of tuberculosis, and new treatments that improve outcomes are required. We randomly assigned adults with TBM to treatment with standard antituberculosis treatment alone or in combination with ciprofloxacin (750 mg/12 h), levofloxacin (500 mg/12 h), or gatifloxacin (400 mg/24 h) for the first 60 days of therapy. Fluoroquinolone concentrations were measured with plasma and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) specimens taken at predetermined, randomly assigned times throughout treatment. We aimed to describe the pharmacokinetics of each fluoroquinolone during TBM treatment and evaluate the relationship between drug exposure and clinical response over 270 days of therapy (Controlled Trials number ISRCTN07062956). Sixty-one patients with TBM were randomly assigned to treatment with no fluoroquinolone (n = 15), ciprofloxacin (n = 16), levofloxacin (n = 15), or gatifloxacin (n = 15). Cerebrospinal fluid penetration, measured by the ratio of the plasma area under the concentration-time curve from 0 to 24 h (AUC(0-24)) to the cerebrospinal fluid AUC(0-24), was greater for levofloxacin (median, 0.74; range, 0.58 to 1.03) than for gatifloxacin (median, 0.48; range, 0.47 to 0.50) or ciprofloxacin (median, 0.26; range, 0.11 to 0.77). Univariable and multivariable analyses of fluoroquinolone exposure against a range of different treatment responses revealed worse outcomes among patients with lower and higher plasma and CSF exposures than for patients with intermediate exposures (a U-shaped exposure-response). TBM patients most likely to benefit from fluoroquinolone therapy were identified, along with exposure-response relationships associated with improved outcomes. Fluoroquinolones add antituberculosis activity to the standard treatment regimen, but to improve outcomes of TBM, they must be started early, before the onset of coma.

UI  - 21494548
TI  - Geographic differences in time to culture conversion in liquid media: Tuberculosis Trials Consortium study 28. Culture conversion is delayed in Africa.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00144417.

UI  - 21486974
TI  - Efficacy and safety of a 4-drug fixed-dose combination regimen compared with separate drugs for treatment of pulmonary tuberculosis: the Study C randomized controlled trial.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00216333.

UI  - 21457984
TI  - Genital tuberculosis among infertile women and fertility outcome after antitubercular therapy.
AB  - No single test can detect all instances of GTB. A combination of tests is needed to increase the detection rate. Treatment given solely on the basis of a positive PCR result can result in conception.

UI  - 21450523
TI  - Population-based investigation of fluoroquinolones resistant tuberculosis in rural eastern China.
AB  - Empirical use of fluoroquinolones (FQ) to treat a variety of bacterial infections may inadvertently select for FQ-resistant strains of Mycobacterium tuberculosis(MTB), especially in rural China where the use of FQ in treating infections has not been standardized. Here we determine the prevalence and describe the transmission of FQ-resistant MTB in two rural counties in eastern China through a combination of conventional epidemiology with IS6110-based restriction fragment length polymorphism(RFLP) analysis and DNA sequencing of drug-resistance determining regions. Phenotypic FQ resistance was detected in 31 of 351(8.8%) isolates. FQ resistance was equally distributed between patient-isolates deemed drug resistant and drug-susceptible, but mostly observed in those with treatment history of respiratory infection. Mutations in gyrA were found in 54.8% of FQ resistant isolates, and one isolate with a gyrB mutation. Despite predominating in entire bacilli population(69.2%), Beijing family strain had similar proportion of FQ resistance to the other(10.3% vs. 4.7%, p = 0.060). IS6110RFLP identified 2 clusters(4 isolates) among FQ resistant isolates and 3 clusters composed of both 4 FQ resistant isolates and 6 FQ susceptible isolates. Our results indicate that FQ-resistant MTB has emerged among the circulating bacillary population in rural eastern China. The relatively low level of clustering among FQ-resistant strains suggests most are acquired de novo, likely due to widespread FQ use.

UI  - 22813409
TI  - Effect of vitamin D supplementation in type 2 diabetes patients with pulmonary tuberculosis.
AB  - Vitamin D can serve as adjuvant treatment of tuberculosis in diabetics with vitamin D deficiency. Further studies are required to validate this observation and define a cut off for vitamin D level to prevent immunological alterations.

UI  - 21418447
TI  - Pilot randomized trial of nutritional supplementation in patients with tuberculosis and HIV-tuberculosis coinfection receiving directly observed short-course chemotherapy for tuberculosis.
AB  - Nutritional supplements in patients are a potentially feasible, low-cost intervention, which could impact patients with TB and TB-HIV. The public health importance of these diseases in resource-limited settings suggests the need for large, multi-centre randomized control trials on nutritional supplementation.

UI  - 21402550
TI  - Effects of antiretroviral therapy on immune function of HIV-infected adults with pulmonary tuberculosis and CD4+ >350 cells/mm3.
AB  - In HIV-infected adults with tuberculosis and CD4(+) T cell counts >350 cells/mm(3), both tuberculosis treatment and concurrent HIV-tuberculosis treatment reduce T cell activation and stabilize T cell counts. Concurrent ART with tuberculosis treatment does not provide additional, sustained reductions in T cell activation among individuals with preserved immunologic function.

UI  - 21322792
TI  - A multi-centre case series investigating the aetiology of hypertrophic pachymeningitis with orbital inflammation.
AB  - We postulate that the combination of orbital inflammation and pachymeningitis is strongly suggestive of Wegener granulomatosis, although it may take a number of years to confirm. Tuberculosis should also be considered.

UI  - 21319275
TI  - Prednisolone treatment affects the performance of the QuantiFERON gold in-tube test and the tuberculin skin test in patients with autoimmune disorders screened for latent tuberculosis infection.
AB  - Oral prednisolone severely suppressed QFT-IT and TST performance, whereas the long-acting corticosteroids methotrexate, azathioprine, and 5-ASA did not have a similar detrimental effect. Patients should be screened for LTBI with QFT-IT or TST prior to initiation of prednisolone therapy and negative QFT-IT or TST results interpreted with caution in patients treated with any corticosteroid until further data are available.

UI  - 21288326
TI  - Sample size requirements for separating out the effects of combination treatments: randomised controlled trials of combination therapy vs. standard treatment compared to factorial designs for patients with tuberculous meningitis.
AB  - Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN61649292.

UI  - 21288325
TI  - Intensified treatment with high dose rifampicin and levofloxacin compared to standard treatment for adult patients with tuberculous meningitis (TBM-IT): protocol for a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - International Standard Randomised Controlled Trial Number ISRCTN61649292.

UI  - 21252141
TI  - Dyslipidemia among HIV-infected Patients with tuberculosis taking once-daily nonnucleoside reverse-transcriptase inhibitor-based antiretroviral therapy in India.
AB  - HIV-infected patients with TB who initiate NNRTI-based ART undergo complex changes in lipid profile, highlighting the importance of screening and treating other cardiovascular disease risk factors in this population.

UI  - 21243801
TI  - [Clinical aspects of tuberculous meningitis in children].
AB  - The diagnosis of tuberculous meningitis at children remains a problem because of the atypical clinical manifestation, the delay of initiating the therapy causing high mortality and frequent complications.

UI  - 21221502
TI  - Randomised controlled trial of food supplements in patients with newly diagnosed tuberculosis and wasting.
AB  - Intake of food supplements resulted in a definitive increase in body weight and physical function in our study sample. Improvements can be observed in all areas, including psychologically, physiologically, socially and in the treatment outcomes.

UI  - 21215445
TI  - High-dose vitamin D(3) during intensive-phase antimicrobial treatment of pulmonary tuberculosis: a double-blind randomised controlled trial.
AB  - British Lung Foundation.

UI  - 21182457
TI  - Adjunct oral immunotherapy in patients with re-treated, multidrug-resistant or HIV-coinfected TB.
AB  - This Phase IIb, placebo-controlled study involved 55 TB patients treated with anti-TB therapy. They were divided into two groups, matched by age, gender, baseline bodyweight and clinical manifestations: one group (n = 27) received a once-daily V-5 Immunitor (V5) immunotherapy pill and the other (n = 28) received placebo. Only one (3.7%) and three (10.7%) subjects in V5 and placebo arms, respectively had first-diagnosed, drug-sensitive TB; the remaining patients had re-treated TB, multidrug-resistant TB or HIV-TB coinfection. After 1 month, 26 out of 27 patients (96.3%) became sputum smear negative in the V5 group (p < 0.0000001), whereas seven out of 28 (25%) in the placebo group had converted (p = 0.005). V5 contributed to the downregulation of TB-associated inflammation, as shown by normalization of high leukocyte counts, erythrocyte sedimentation rate and faster defervescence than controls. Patients in both arms experienced an increase in the levels of hemoglobin corresponding to 128.9  17.6 versus 133.1  14.7 g/l (p = 0.03) and 112.6  14 versus 117  11.7 g/l (p = 0.03) in V5 and placebo arms, respectively. In total, 19 out of 28 placebo patients (67.9%) gained, on average, 1.07 kg (59.1  10 vs 60.1  10.4 kg; p = 0.003). By contrast, all patients in the V5 group gained weight with mean 3.4 kg (59.7  8 vs 63.1  9 kg; p = 5.7E-007). Clinical symptoms improved among all patients in V5 arm, while 28.6% of patients on placebo reported satisfactory results (p = 0.007). No adverse or side effects attributable to V5 were seen at any time. Further studies are needed to gauge the extent of the benefits of V5 as safe and effective adjunct immunotherapy for TB.

UI  - 21166754
TI  - Late bacille Calmette-Gurin infection with a large focal urinary bladder ulceration as a complication of bladder cancer treatment.
AB  -  This is the first report on persisting BCG infections with large inflammatory lesions in the bladder. Treatment is effective and the oncological outcome is good.  Mycobacterial cultures of the urine should be performed in BCG-patients with unclear inflammatory lesions in the bladder since a delayed diagnosis of a persistent BCG infection could result in a permanently reduced bladder capacity.  Large studies are warranted to study differences in efficacy and side-effects between different BCG strains.

UI  - 21144254
TI  - Acceptability of treatment of latent tuberculosis infection in newly HIV-infected young women in Uganda.
AB  - We studied the acceptability of isoniazid preventive therapy (IPT) in newly human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infected Ugandan women. Women were followed in an out-patient clinic where they received HIV care including IPT. Of 52 women who were purified protein derivative-positive, 48 were eligible for IPT and 39 (81%) completed therapy. This completion rate was higher than reported in similar observational studies.

UI  - 21116818
TI  - Evaluation of adequacy of short-course chemotherapy for extraspinal osteoarticular tuberculosis using 99mTc ciprofloxacin scan.
AB  - In the evidence-based medicine era, objective treatment guidelines have been laid down for pulmonary tuberculosis, but the same is not true for osteoarticular tuberculosis. This has led to demands for standardising the treatment protocol and to a lack of consensus between doctors regarding the composition and duration of treatment. Twenty-five patients with extraspinal osteoarticular tuberculosis were evaluated prospectively. Following the diagnosis, patients were given standard directly observed treatment short course (DOTS) regimen and were monitored for disease activity at zero, three and six months with the help of technetium-99m-labelled ciprofloxacin ((99m)Tc) scan. Tracer activity at the site was recorded and compared on sequential scans. Clinical and radiological profile of all the patients were also recorded at regular intervals and compared. All 25 cases had a positive (99m)Tc bone scan initially. Four patients (16%) converted to negative scans at three months, whereas the remaining 21 patients (84%) showed negative scans at six months. The end of six months therapy also coincided with resolution of clinical and radiological parameters in all cases. In conclusion, (99m)Tc scan is a promising tool for monitoring drug response in osteoarticular tuberculosis; however, due to the small sample size, studies with a large number of patients might be of help.

UI  - 21114174
TI  - Randomized, double-blind study on role of low level nitrogen laser therapy in treatment failure tubercular lymphadenopathy, sinuses and cold abscess.
AB  - Low level nitrogen laser therapy can be used as an adjunctive therapy along with antitubercular drugs in cases not responding and drug resistant tubercular lymphadenopathy, sinuses and cold abscess.

UI  - 21098802
TI  - Twelve-monthly versus six-monthly radiological screening for active case-finding of tuberculosis: a randomised controlled trial.
AB  - In settings with a high prevalence of HIV and tuberculosis despite standard tuberculosis control measures, more frequent case-finding may reduce the extent of disease, tuberculosis mortality and tuberculosis transmission through earlier detection of active tuberculosis cases. To be effective, however, all tuberculosis suspects identified through screening must be investigated for tuberculosis.

UI  - 21079428
TI  - The implementation of isoniazid preventive therapy in HIV clinics: the experience from the TB/HIV in Rio (THRio) study.
AB  - The national implementation of TST and IPT for HIV-positive patients in Brazil has been invigorated partly due to THRio's baseline results. Expanded use of IPT in HIV patients in Rio de Janeiro is achievable with high adherence and low adverse events, although this effort requires a package of activities including training, advocacy and reorganization of services.

UI  - 21079427
TI  - Barriers to implementation of isoniazid preventive therapy in HIV clinics: a qualitative study.
AB  - Barriers to the widespread use of IPT primarily derived from healthcare workers, in particular, lack of experience among physicians. In addition to overcoming operational barriers, a change in healthcare worker perception is needed if IPT is to be widely used; we suggest local clinical opinion leaders could help achieve this.

UI  - 21079425
TI  - Adverse events with isoniazid preventive therapy: experience from a large trial.
AB  - The risk of adverse events, particularly hepatotoxicity, was very low in this population. Our data suggest that clinical criteria can safely be used for screening prior to and monitoring during IPT.

UI  - 21078950
TI  - Biomarker-assisted dose selection for safety and efficacy in early development of PNU-100480 for tuberculosis.
AB  - Tuberculosis is a serious global health threat for which new treatments are urgently needed. This study examined the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics, and pharmacodynamics of multiple ascending doses of the oxazolidinone PNU-100480 in healthy volunteers, using biomarkers for safety and efficacy. Subjects were randomly assigned to PNU-100480 or placebo (4:1) at schedules of 100, 300, or 600 mg twice daily or 1,200 mg daily for 14 days or a schedule of 600 mg twice daily for 28 days to which pyrazinamide was added on days 27 and 28. A sixth cohort was given linezolid at 300 mg daily for 4 days. Signs, symptoms, and routine safety tests were monitored. Bactericidal activity against Mycobacterium tuberculosis was measured in ex vivo whole-blood culture. Plasma drug and metabolite concentrations were compared to the levels required for inhibition of M. tuberculosis growth and 50% inhibition of mitochondrial protein synthesis. All doses were safe and well tolerated. There were no hematologic or other safety signals during 28 days of dosing at 600 mg twice daily. Plasma concentrations of PNU-100480 and metabolites at this dose remained below those required for 50% inhibition of mitochondrial protein synthesis. Cumulative whole-blood bactericidal activity of PNU-100480 at this dose (-0.316  0.04 log) was superior to the activities of all other doses tested (P < 0.001) and was significantly augmented by pyrazinamide (-0.420  0.06 log) (P = 0.002). In conclusion, PNU-100480 was safe and well tolerated at all tested doses. Further studies in patients with tuberculosis are warranted. Biomarkers can accelerate early development of new tuberculosis treatments.

UI  - 21068353
TI  - The effect of vitamin A and zinc supplementation on treatment outcomes in pulmonary tuberculosis: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Supplementation with vitamin A and zinc did not affect treatment outcomes in participants with pulmonary tuberculosis at 8 wk. This trial was registered at controlled-trials.com as ISRCTN80852505.

UI  - 21047828
TI  - Nevirapine pharmacokinetics when initiated at 200 mg or 400 mg daily in HIV-1 and tuberculosis co-infected Ugandan adults on rifampicin.
AB  - in co-treated patients, nevirapine concentrations were below the MEC during initiation with dose escalation. Nevirapine initiation at the maintenance dose of 200 mg twice daily is preferred. Sub-therapeutic nevirapine concentrations were common at Day 21 with either regimen. Evaluation of higher nevirapine maintenance doses may be considered.

UI  - 21046988
TI  - Assessment of protective role of polyherbal preparation, Livina, against anti-tubercular drug induced liver dysfunction.
AB  - The present study evaluated the possible protective role of Livina (a polyherbal preparation) against anti-tubercular therapy (ATT)-induced liver dysfunction in patients of pulmonary tuberculosis. Patients were given intensive phase treatment with 4-drugs (rifampicin, INH, pyrazinamide and ethambutol) used for anti-tubercular therapy for 2 months, followed by a 4-month continuous phase treatment with 2 drugs (rifampicin and INH) under clinical advice and supervision. Both qualitative and quantitative measures of liver function were assessed, at different time intervals, before and after ATT. Analysis of data showed that the incidence of qualitative manifestations of liver dysfunction were greater in the placebo treated group as compared to the test drug group. None of the patients of either group showed clinical jaundice. Most signific changes ant were observed in the SGOT and SGPT levels in the placebo group, wherein the levels of both enzymes were higher at 4 and 8 weeks post-ATT, as compared to the respective baseline (0 week) values. When Livina (2 capsules twice daily) was given with ATT drugs, incidence of qualitative manifestation of liver dysfunction was insignificant and SGOT and SGPT levels were also significantly lower than the placebo+AITT drugs treated group. These results indicate that the test drug (Livina) was efficacious, against ATT-induced hepatic dysfunction in patients of pulmonary tuberculosis.

UI  - 20971533
TI  - [Abdominal tuberculosis: a retrospective series of 90 cases].
AB  - Laparoscopy and laparotomy are still helpful for the diagnosis of abdominal tuberculosis, especially in the presence of peritoneal involvement.

UI  - 20958890
TI  - Randomized controlled trial of zinc and vitamin A as co-adjuvants for the treatment of pulmonary tuberculosis.
AB  -  Supplementation with zinc or zinc plus retinol did not lead to better outcomes than placebos, and caution is warranted regarding routine micronutrient supplementation, particularly in patients co-infected with HIV.

UI  - 20935555
TI  - Impact of tuberculosis cotreatment on viral suppression rates among HIV-positive children initiating HAART.
AB  - Concurrent treatment for TB is associated with lower rates of viral suppression among children receiving protease inhibitor-based HAART, but not among those receiving nonnucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor-based HAART. Guidelines for the care of young HIV-TB coinfected infants should be continually evaluated, as protease inhibitor-based antiviral therapy may not provide optimal viral suppression in this population.

UI  - 20920186
TI  - Zinc and vitamin A supplementation fails to reduce sputum conversion time in severely malnourished pulmonary tuberculosis patients in Indonesia.
AB  - This study among severely malnourished TB patients, did not confirm that single or combined supplementation of zinc and vitamin A significantly reduced sputum conversion time or had other significant benefit.

UI  - 20820832
TI  - Time to detection of the growth of Mycobacterium tuberculosis in MGIT 960 for determining the early bactericidal activity of antituberculosis agents.
AB  - Evaluation of early bactericidal activity (EBA) by the determination of a fall in viable colony-forming units (CFU) of Mycobacterium tuberculosis in sputum is a first step in the clinical study of new antituberculosis agents. The time to detection (TTD) of growth in liquid media is more sensitive and could substitute for CFU counting on solid media. Overnight sputum samples collected during the evaluation of the novel agent TMC207 in comparison to isoniazid and rifampicin were studied. For the determination of CFU, we incubated 10-fold dilutions of homogenized sputum on selective 7H10 agar. The TTD was measured by incubating decontaminated sputum in the BACTEC MGIT 960 system. The fall in bacillary load over 7 days determined by CFU counting closely matched the prolongation of the TTD in the BACTEC MGIT 960 system. The CFU counts correlated significantly with the TTD. While the ranking of agents and different dosages of TMC207 was similar, the highest dose of TMC207 showed markedly better activity when measured by the TTD than CFU counting when compared to the activity of isoniazid. Automated TTD could augment, or, in future, replace, CFU counting to determine sputum bacillary load in EBA clinical trials pending a more formal evaluation of the correlation of the measurements.

UI  - 20819874
TI  - Isoniazid resistance and death in patients with tuberculous meningitis: retrospective cohort study.
AB  - Isoniazid resistance on initial susceptibility testing was associated with subsequent death among cases of tuberculous meningitis with positive cerebrospinal fluid cultures. Randomised controlled trials are needed to evaluate the optimal empirical regimen for treating patients with tuberculous meningitis who are at high risk for both initial isoniazid resistance and poor clinical outcomes.

UI  - 20819260
TI  - Serum 25-hydroxy-vitamin D3 concentrations increase during tuberculosis treatment in Tanzania.
AB  - 25[OH]D serum concentrations increased during the first 2 months of TB treatment in 81 PTB patients in northern Tanzania. Improved dietary intake and increased sunlight exposure may have contributed to the increased 25[OH]D concentrations.

UI  - 20808204
TI  - Randomized placebo-controlled trial of prednisone for paradoxical tuberculosis-associated immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome.
AB  - Prednisone reduced the need for hospitalization and therapeutic procedures and hastened improvements in symptoms, performance, and quality of life. It is important to investigate for drug-resistant tuberculosis and other causes for deterioration before administering glucocorticoids.

UI  - 20801589
TI  - [Multidrug-resistant tuberculosis management in three French hospitals].
AB  - TB-MDR management was not conform to WHO guidelines in our study. Management in a sanatorium, NRC involvement, ambulatory DOT were highly beneficial.

UI  - 20701118
TI  - [Clinical study of short-course chemotherapy combined with radical operation in retreating spinal tuberculosis].
AB  - Removed tubercular focus for the treatment of retreating spinal tuberculosis can improve clinical effect and shorten chemotherapy course.

UI  - 20701117
TI  - [Surgical treatment of thoracic and thoracolumbar spinal tuberculosis].
AB  - For the treatment of thoracic and thoracolumbar spinal tuberculosis, the best treatment include directional chemotherapy, one-stage anterior approach with thorough debridement, auto-rib or Ti-mesh fusion, and plate-screw fixation.

UI  - 20692169
TI  - Anti-tuberculosis treatment for Devic's neuromyelitis optica.
AB  - There are no specific treatments for patients with acute, severe neurological deficits caused by neuromyelitis optica (NMO) who fail to recover after treatment with high-dose corticosteroids. We evaluated the clinical response of anti-tuberculosis treatment (ATT) in patients suffering from steroid-refractory NMO, and investigated the correlation between NMO and tuberculous infection of the central nervous system (CNS). We conducted this prospective, controlled study in southern China. Twelve patients with steroid-refractory NMO were monitored during ATT and compared with a control group of 13 patients with the same type of NMO who received current standard therapies. A molecular diagnostic test was carried out and Extended Disability Status Scale (EDSS) score analysis, visual acuity, the number of relapses and MRI changes were evaluated at study entry and after 1 and 2years of therapy. ATT may lead to the recovery of important neurological functions and all our patients responded positively to therapy. EDSS score and visual acuity improved and abnormalities in the spinal cord, observed by MRI, markedly decreased over time. ATT also significantly reduced the rate of relapse. By comparison, in the control group, a significant clinical deterioration was observed, and patients did not show favourable EDSS scores and MRI changes. This study suggests that CNS infection with Mycobacterium tuberculosis is an important cause of NMO.

UI  - 20660695
TI  - Effects of tuberculosis, race, and human gene SLCO1B1 polymorphisms on rifampin concentrations.
AB  - Rifampin has concentration-dependent activity against Mycobacterium tuberculosis. However, marked intersubject variation of rifampin concentrations occurs. In this study, we evaluated rifampin pharmacokinetics in relation to tuberculosis, geographic region, race, and single nucleotide polymorphisms of the human transporter genes SLCO1B1, SLCO1B3, and MDR1. Seventy-two adults with pulmonary tuberculosis from Africa, North America, and Spain were evaluated during multidrug intensive-phase therapy, and their results were compared to those from 16 healthy controls from North America. Rifampin pharmacokinetic values were similar between tuberculosis patients and controls (geometric mean [GM] area under the concentration-time curve from 0 to 24 h [AUC(0-24)] of 40.2 versus 40.9 g.h/ml; P = 0.9). However, in multivariable analyses, the rifampin AUC(0-24) was significantly affected by rifampin dosage (in mg/kg of body weight), polymorphisms in the SLCO1B1 gene, and the presence of tuberculosis by geographic region. The adjusted rifampin AUC(0-24) was lowest in patients with tuberculosis from Africa compared to that in non-African patients or control subjects. The adjusted rifampin AUC(0-24) was also 36% lower among participants with SLCO1B1 genotype c.463CA than that among participants with SLCO1B1 genotype c.463CC (adjusted GM, 29.8 versus 46.7 g.h/ml; P = 0.001). Polymorphisms in the SLCO1B1 gene associated with lower rifampin exposure were more frequent among black subjects. In conclusion, marked intersubject variation of the rifampin AUC(0-24) values was observed, but the mean values of the AUC(0-24) did not significantly vary between patients with tuberculosis and healthy controls. Lower rifampin exposure was associated with the polymorphism of the SLCO1B1 c.463C>A gene. When adjusted for the patient mg/kg dosage and transporter gene polymorphisms, rifampin exposure was lower in patients with tuberculosis, which suggests that additional absorption or metabolic processes affect rifampin exposure with tuberculosis disease.

UI  - 20647201
TI  - Early versus standard antiretroviral therapy for HIV-infected adults in Haiti.
AB  - Early initiation of antiretroviral therapy decreased the rates of death and incident tuberculosis. Access to antiretroviral therapy should be expanded to include all HIV-infected adults who have CD4+ T-cell counts of less than 350 per cubic millimeter, including those who live in areas with limited resources. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00120510.)

UI  - 20635986
TI  - Enhancement of efficacy of tuberculosis drugs with Immunoxel (Dzherelo) in HIV-infected patients with active pulmonary tuberculosis.
AB  - Immunoxel (Dzherelo) is an oral, herbal immunomodulator used in Ukraine for adjunct therapy of infectious and autoimmune diseases. Antiretroviral drug-naive, tuberculosis (TB)/HIV coinfected patients with active pulmonary TB were divided into two arms, A (n = 20) and B (n = 20), to receive first-line anti-TB therapy (ATT) or ATT + Dzherelo, respectively. As a result, three (16%) versus 12 (67%; p = 0.003) patients had Mycobacterium tuberculosis culture conversion, with time to negative culture of 6 and 4 months in arms A and B, respectively. In the ATT-alone arm, the healing of pulmonary cavitations was observed in 25% of patients at weeks 24-28, while 60% of individuals in arm B healed at 16-18 weeks (p = 0.025). The TB lesions, on chest x-ray, had cleared in 46 and 84%, with time-to-clearance of 24-28 and 16-18 weeks in arms A and B, respectively. In the ATT-alone arm, the bodyweight at baseline was 64 +/- 6.3 kg, with 13 cachexic patients who had an average weight deficit of -5.2 +/- 1.7 kg. At the end of 6 months of follow-up, they have lost an additional 0.6 kg (-5.8 +/- 2.4). The study entry-level weight in arm B was 52 +/- 5.7 kg, with 12 individuals who had a body mass deficit of -8.5 +/- 2.7 kg. The immunotherapeutic intervention increased bodyweight by an average of 5.8 +/- 2.6 kg above baseline (p < 0.0001). The inclusion of Dzherelo into the ATT regimen decreased the incidence of new opportunistic infections (OI) with three episodes of OI versus 12 in arm A (p = 0.003). These findings indicate that Dzherelo contributes positively to the clinical efficacy of TB drugs.

UI  - 20627913
TI  - Impact of treatment completion, intolerance and adverse events on health system costs in a randomised trial of 4 months rifampin or 9 months isoniazid for latent TB.
AB  - The 4RIF regimen was significantly cheaper per patient completing treatment because of better completion and fewer adverse events.

UI  - 20626941
TI  - Factors associated with poor tuberculosis treatment outcome in the Southern Region of Ethiopia.
AB  - Treatment outcome was suboptimal and targeted measures should be considered to reduce the rate of poor treatment outcome among high-risk groups.

UI  - 20626940
TI  - National anti-tuberculosis drug resistance study in Tanzania.
AB  - The low levels of drug resistance in Tanzania are likely due to a well performing TB control programme and the absence of noticeable involvement of the private sector in TB treatment.

UI  - 20622529
TI  - Tuberculosis risk factors and mortality for HIV-infected persons receiving antiretroviral therapy in South Africa.
AB  - In HIV-infected patients who started ART at low CD4 cell counts, tuberculosis at baseline was a predictor of death, but was not independent of other factors indicating poor baseline health status. Tuberculosis during follow-up was, in contrast, an independent predictor of death even after adjustments for baseline risk factors, including CD4 cell count and viral load. Virologic failure during ART was associated with a 55% increase in risk of tuberculosis. Thus, tuberculosis is a major marker for poor outcome both at baseline and during ART and is not completely eliminated by fully suppressive ART.

UI  - 20613459
TI  - Initiating patients on antiretroviral therapy at CD4 cell counts above 200 cells/microl is associated with improved treatment outcomes in South Africa.
AB  - Patients initiating ART with higher CD4 cell counts had reduced mortality, tuberculosis and less virologic failure than those initiated at lower CD4 cell counts. Our data support increasing CD4 cell count eligibility criteria for ART initiation.

UI  - 20610636
TI  - Vitamin D status and antimicrobial peptide cathelicidin (LL-37) concentrations in patients with active pulmonary tuberculosis.
AB  - More prospectively designed studies are needed to evaluate the clinical implications of vitamin D insufficiency in patients with tuberculosis and the utility of circulating LL-37 as a potential biomarker in patients with active tuberculosis disease. The parent trial was registered at clinicaltrials.gov as NCT00023335.

UI  - 20608757
TI  - Comparison of the pharmacokinetics of two dosage regimens of linezolid in multidrug-resistant and extensively drug-resistant tuberculosis patients.
AB  - Seemingly effective serum concentrations were reached after 3 days of administration of linezolid 300 mg twice daily, i.e. the AUC(24)/MIC ratio was at least 100 in 7 of 8 patients. Larger numbers of patients should be studied to confirm the efficacy of the linezolid 300 mg twice-daily dosage in MDR-TB or XDR-TB treatment.

UI  - 20569064
TI  - Mycobacterium tuberculosis microbiologic and clinical treatment outcomes in a randomized trial of immediate versus CD4(+)-initiated antiretroviral therapy in HIV-infected adults with a high CD4(+) cell count.
AB  - In a prospective randomized, controlled trial in Uganda comparing the efficacy of antiretroviral therapy during tuberculosis therapy with the efficacy of tuberculosis therapy alone in HIV-infected patients with tuberculosis who have a CD4(+) cell count >350 cells/microL, it was found that antiretroviral therapy did not accelerate microbiologic, radiographic, or clinical responses to tuberculosis therapy: 18% of participants had sputum smears positive for Mycobacterium tuberculosis after 5 months of tuberculosis therapy, despite having had negative culture results. Trial registration. ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT00078247 .

UI  - 20516049
TI  - Role of 2-month sputum smears in predicting culture conversion in pulmonary tuberculosis.
AB  - Sputum smears and culture conversion are frequently used to evaluate treatment response in pulmonary tuberculosis patients. Limited data are available on the evaluation of the correlation between under-treatment sputum smear results and culture conversion. This prospective study included sputum culture-proven pulmonary tuberculosis patients at six hospitals in Taiwan. At least two sets of sputum were collected at the completion of 8 weeks of TB treatment. The sensitivities and specificities of 2-month sputum smears were estimated based on culture conversion status. A total of 371 patients were enrolled for analysis. Factors associated with culture conversion included having a smear positive before treatment, presence of a cavity on radiography, rifampicin resistance and usage of the DOTS (directly observed therapy, short course) strategy. The sensitivities of 2-month sputum smears for culture conversion among all patients, initially smear-positive patients and initially smear-negative patients were 64.3, 71.4 and 38%, respectively, and the specificities were 81.6, 69.9 and 92.8%, respectively. In patients who were 2-month sputum smear-positive, the 2-month culture conversion rate was 80% if the patients were under DOTS and without cavitary lesions in radiograms. The predictive value of 2-month sputum smears in culture conversion was limited and highly influenced by clinical factors in pulmonary tuberculosis patients.

UI  - 20510009
TI  - [Protective effect of silibinin on liver injury induced by antituberculosis drugs].
AB  - 

UI  - 20498324
TI  - Early bactericidal activity and pharmacokinetics of PA-824 in smear-positive tuberculosis patients.
AB  - PA-824 is a novel nitroimidazo-oxazine being evaluated for its potential to improve tuberculosis (TB) therapy. This randomized study evaluated safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics, and extended early bactericidal activity of PA-824 in drug-sensitive, sputum smear-positive, adult pulmonary tuberculosis patients. Fifteen patients per cohort received 1 of 4 doses of oral PA-824: 200, 600, 1,000, or 1,200 mg per day for 14 days. Eight subjects received once daily standard antituberculosis treatment as positive control. The primary efficacy endpoint was the mean rate of change in log CFU of Mycobacterium tuberculosis in sputum incubated on agar plates from serial overnight sputum collections, expressed as log10 CFU/day/ml (+/-standard deviation [SD]). The drug demonstrated increases that were dose linear but less than dose proportional in serum concentrations in doses from 200 to 1,000 mg daily. Dosing of 1,200 mg gave no additional exposure compared to 1,000 mg daily. The mean daily CFU fall under standard treatment was 0.148 (+/-0.055), consistent with that found in previous studies. The mean daily fall under PA-824 was 0.098 (+/-0.072) and was equivalent for all four dosages. PA-824 appeared safe and well tolerated; the incidence of adverse events potentially related to PA-824 appeared dose related. We conclude that PA-824 demonstrated bactericidal activity over the dose range of 200 to 1,200 mg daily over 14 days. Because maximum efficacy was unexpectedly achieved at the lowest dosage tested, the activity of lower dosages should now be explored.

UI  - 20487619
TI  - Videophone utilization as an alternative to directly observed therapy for tuberculosis.
AB  - To demonstrate whether the use of videophone technology is an effective alternative method to direct observation of tuberculosis (TB) medication administration, a retrospective chart review and data analysis were performed on records for 57 patients with active TB in two Washington state counties who utilized videophone technology for the administration of medications from 2002 through 2006. A total of US$139,546 was saved in staff salaries, benefits and travel costs. The average cost savings per patient was US$2448. The use of videophone technology is a cost-effective alternative to in-home directly observed administration of TB medication.

UI  - 20487607
TI  - Treatment completion in latent tuberculosis infection at specialist tuberculosis units in Spain.
AB  - Overall, completion rates of LTBI treatment in specialist TB units are good. Nevertheless, counselling should be strengthened and new strategies to enhance adherence should be sought for recent immigrants and for people in unfavourable social situations.

UI  - 20485880
TI  - Adjunctive micronutrient supplementation for pulmonary tuberculosis.
AB  - The earlier elimination of bacilli from sputum was associated with improved zinc status and Th1 immune response. The therapeutic effect of vitamin A was less evident.

UI  - 20461008
TI  - Protective effect of N-acetylcysteine on antituberculosis drug-induced hepatotoxicity.
AB  - NAC protects against anti-TB drug-induced hepatotoxicity.

UI  - 20433665
TI  - The effect of a cultural intervention on adherence to latent tuberculosis infection therapy in Latino immigrants.
AB  - Using a CI to increase adherence to LTBI therapy shows promise for public health nursing practice.

UI  - 20421121
TI  - Role of aspirin in tuberculous meningitis: a randomized open label placebo controlled trial.
AB  - Aspirin resulted in insignificantly lesser strokes and significantly reduced 3 month mortality in patients with TBM.

UI  - 20392347
TI  - Factors associated with treatment adherence in a randomised trial of latent tuberculosis infection treatment.
AB  - The shorter RMP regimen was associated with better adherence. Patients with poor adherence could be identified at the first follow-up visit from their punctuality in follow-up, missed doses and variability of pill-taking.

UI  - 20356997
TI  - Assessment of linezolid efficacy and safety in MDR- and XDR-TB: an Indian perspective.
AB  - 

UI  - 20226130
TI  - Peritoneal tuberculosis. Report of seven cases.
AB  - Peritoneal TB is uncommon. Diagnoses should be considered in all patients with ascites, adnexal tumors and elevated serum CA-125 levels.

UI  - 20214476
TI  - Initial response to protease-inhibitor-based antiretroviral therapy among children less than 2 years of age in South Africa: effect of cotreatment for tuberculosis.
AB  - High rates of viral suppression can be achieved among infants and young children who initiate protease-inhibitor-based ART. Cotreatment for tuberculosis reduced viral suppression. How best to treat HIV-infected children who require tuberculosis treatment warrants urgent investigation.

UI  - 20181971
TI  - Timing of initiation of antiretroviral drugs during tuberculosis therapy.
AB  - The initiation of antiretroviral therapy during tuberculosis therapy significantly improved survival and provides further impetus for the integration of tuberculosis and HIV services. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00398996.)

UI  - 20179751
TI  - Tuberculosis treatment in HIV infected Ugandans with CD4 counts>350 cells/mm reduces immune activation with no effect on HIV load or CD4 count.
AB  - TB therapy leads to measurable decreases in immune activation in persons with HIV/TB co-infection and CD4 counts>350 cells/mm3.

UI  - 20156055
TI  - Safety of 3 different reintroduction regimens of antituberculosis drugs after development of antituberculosis treatment-induced hepatotoxicity.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov identifier number: NCT00405301.

UI  - 20153570
TI  - Relation of ghrelin, leptin and inflammatory markers to nutritional status in active pulmonary tuberculosis.
AB  - Decreased plasma ghrelin levels, in addition to increased plasma inflammatory cytokine levels, may be associated with malnutrition in active pulmonary tuberculosis.

UI  - 20141008
TI  - [Effect of ascorbic acid and emoxypin on the efficiency of complex chemotherapy for infiltrative pulmonary tuberculosis].
AB  - The findings show it expedient to include ascorbic acid and emoxypin into the combined treatment regimen for infiltrative tuberculosis in a phase of decay.

UI  - 20132632
TI  - Pharmacokinetics of isoniazid in moderately malnourished children with tuberculosis.
AB  - Severe malnutrition is known to affect the pharmacokinetics of isoniazid (INH) in children. However, the effect of moderate malnutrition, which may be more prevalent, is not known. INH was administered to 20 children with tuberculosis at a single dose of 5 mg/kg, and serial blood samples were collected. The serum INH concentrations were higher in the undernourished group but the pharmacokinetic parameters were comparable with those in the normal nutrition group. Weight gain was significantly more in the undernourished group after 1 month of treatment. The study suggests that INH pharmacokinetics may not be significantly altered in children with moderate malnutrition.

UI  - 20132620
TI  - Health status of UK patients with active tuberculosis.
AB  - TB patients suffer from significantly diminished health-related quality of life at diagnosis. Although treatment significantly improved patients' health status within 2 months, scores for many domains remain below UK norm scores. This emphasises the importance of a holistic approach to care and should inform the evaluation of future interventions.

UI  - 20105081
TI  - Tailored release drug delivery system for rifampicin and isoniazid for enhanced bioavailability of rifampicin.
AB  - The front line antitubercular drugs rifampicin (RMP) and isoniazid (INH), when co-administered, face the problem of reduced bioavailability of RMP. Stabilization of RMP in the presence of INH under acidic environment may improve the bioavailability of RMP. In vitro degradation studies showed around 15-25% degradation of RMP under the aforesaid conditions if the ratio of RMP: INH is above 1:0.5.This degradation is reduced to less than 10% when the ratio of RMP: INH is below 1:0.25. Based on these findings, an innovative drug delivery system was designed with the immediate release of RMP and tailored prolonged release of INH. The bilayer tablets prepared with this concept were subjected to relative bioavailability studies in healthy human volunteers in an open label, balanced, randomized, single-dose, cross-over study under fasted state. A validated LC-MS/MS bioanalytical method was employed for estimation of RMP and INH in plasma. Bioavailability studies revealed that C(max) and AUC for RMP increased by 18 and 20%, respectively, confirming the above innovative concept. Even in the case of INH, AUC increased significantly by around 30% and thus time above minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) would also increase, which may result in further improved clinical outcome.

UI  - 20095375
TI  - [Interferon alpha-2b in the complex therapy of patients with pulmonary tuberculosis concurrent with bronchoobstructive syndrome].
AB  - Interferon alpha-2b was tested for its effect on therapeutic effectiveness in pulmonary tuberculosis patients with bronchoobstructive syndrome and signs of secondary immunodeficiency. The patients were randomized to 2 groups. The study group (n=35) received rectal interferon alpha-2b, 3 million IU, on chemotherapy days (twice weekly). The total duration of a course of immunochemothery was 4 months or more. The control group (n=35) did not take the immunomodulator. The use of interferon contributed to the normalization of T-cell immunological parameters in 60.6% of the patients and functional parameters in 35.7% and could achieve closure of decay cavities (the only cavity or one of the cavities) in 90.6% of cases (in the control group, these were in 33.3, 20, and 64.3%, respectively).

UI  - 20044463
TI  - Culture result of smear-positive sputum samples after 2 months of antituberculous treatment.
AB  - 

UI  - 20042919
TI  - Limited sampling strategies for therapeutic drug monitoring of linezolid in patients with multidrug-resistant tuberculosis.
AB  - This study showed that linezolid AUC0-12h in patients with multidrug-resistant tuberculosis could be predicted accurately by a minimal sampling strategy and could be used to individualize the dose.

UI  - 21840815
TI  - Traditional healers and tuberculosis control in southern Nigeria.
AB  - Traditional healers (THs) co-exist with orthodox medicine and offer options for the sick, especially cases with perceived supernatural causes. This study examined the role and capability of THs in the national tuberculosis control effort. Seventeen community leaders (CLs) and 20 THs were interviewed. Prolonged cough constituted one of the common health problems taken to THs in the communities studied. The THs manage such cases with herbs and are not inclined to referring cases to the orthodox health care facility because of the confidence in their ability to handle the cases which result from supernatural causes. The CLs attest to the acceptability of the THs in the communities, which they attribute to the efficacy of the traditional healing, uncomplicated treatment process, cause of the prolonged cough, as well as cost and secrecy. THs can be educated to make prompt referral of cases to Directly Observed Treatment Short-course (DOTS) clinics for prompt diagnosis and appropriate treatment.

UI  - 21381350
TI  - [Use of cycloferon in the treatment of patients with pulmonary tuberculosis with mild clinical manifestations].
AB  - Extrastress status of adaptation systems and the absence of their activating impact on immunity and inflammation are detectable in first detected patients with mild clinical manifestations of PT running in significant lung tissue fibrosis. Therapy with cyclopheron that stimulates the production of stress-induced cytokines gives rise to a stress reaction, activates immune processes, and enhances therapeutic effectiveness in this group of patients.

UI  - 20025724
TI  - Patient-centred tuberculosis treatment delivery under programmatic conditions in Tanzania: a cohort study.
AB  - The PCT approach showed similar cure rates and better treatment success rates compared to daily health-facility DOT. The results indicate that there are no specific prerequisites for the supporter chosen by the patient. The programmatic setting of the study lends strong support for scaling-up of TB treatment observation outside the health facility.

UI  - 20024769
TI  - HIV and tuberculosis in Durban, South Africa: adherence to two medication regimens.
AB  - Given that antiretroviral (ARV) medication adherence has been shown to be high in resource-limited countries, the question remains as to whether adherence will remain at that level as medications become more widely available. Comparing adherence to tuberculosis (TB) medications, which have been readily available, and ARV medications may help to indicate the likely future adherence to ARVs as access to these medications becomes more widespread. This study examined sense of coherence, social support, symptom status, quality of life, and adherence to medications in two samples of individuals being treated either for TB or human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (HIV/AIDS) at clinics in Durban, South Africa. Findings revealed the distinctive socio-economic backgrounds of the two cohorts. Although there were significant differences with regard to the psychosocial variables, there were no significant differences by the two samples in adherence to medications as well as adherence to appointments. Given the self-selected nature of the participants in this study, namely those able to attend clinic, as well as those likely to be adherent to ARVs, there is every reason for caution in the interpretations of these findings. As access to ARV medications becomes more widely available in South Africa, the question remains as to whether such high adherence will be maintained given the constraints of access to food and other basic necessities.

UI  - 20003697
TI  - Adding moxifloxacin is associated with a shorter time to culture conversion in pulmonary tuberculosis.
AB  - Adding MXF to the standard anti-tuberculosis regimen in the first 2 months was associated with a shorter time to culture conversion, a higher 6-week culture conversion rate and reduced transmission of tuberculosis.

UI  - 20001518
TI  - Early versus delayed fixed dose combination abacavir/lamivudine/zidovudine in patients with HIV and tuberculosis in Tanzania.
AB  - Fixed dose combination abacavir/lamivudine/zidovudine (ABC/3TC/ZDV) among HIV-1 and tuberculosis (TB)-coinfected patients was evaluated and outcomes between early vs. delayed initiation were compared. In a randomized, pilot study conducted in the Kilimanjaro Region of Tanzania, HIV-infected inpatients with smear-positive TB and total lymphocyte count <1200/mm(3) were randomized to initiate ABC/3TC/ZDV either 2 (early) or 8 (delayed) weeks after commencing antituberculosis therapy and were followed for 104 weeks. Of 94 patients screened, 70 enrolled (41% female, median CD4 count 103 cells/mm(3)), and 33 in each group completed 104 weeks. Two deaths and 12 serious adverse events (SAEs) were observed in the early arm vs. one death, one clinical failure, and seven SAEs in the delayed arm (p = 0.6012 for time to first grade 3/4 event, SAE, or death). CD4 cell increases were +331 and +328 cells/mm(3), respectively. TB-immune reconstitution inflammatory syndromes (TB-IRIS) were not observed in any subject. Using intent-to-treat (ITT), missing = failure analyses, 74% (26/35) vs. 89% (31/35) randomized to early vs. delayed therapy had HIV RNA levels <400 copies/ml at 104 weeks (p = 0.2182) and 66% (23/35) vs. 74% (26/35), respectively, had HIV RNA levels <50 copies/ml (p = 0.6026). In an analysis in which switches from ABC/3TC/ZDV = failure, those receiving early therapy were less likely to be suppressed to <400 copies/ml [60% (21/35) vs. 86% (30/35), p = 0.030]. TB-IRIS was not observed among the 70 coinfected subjects beginning antiretroviral treatment. ABC/3TC/ZDV was well tolerated and resulted in steady immunologic improvement. Rates of virologic suppression were similar between early and delayed treatment strategies with triple nucleoside regimens when substitutions were allowed.

UI  - 20001277
TI  - Treatment outcome in children with tuberculosis in southern Ethiopia.
AB  - Our study took place at 8 tuberculosis diagnostic and treatment centres in Sidama Zone, southern Ethiopia. Our objectives were to assess the status of TB treatment in children and risk factors associated with unfavourable outcome. A retrospective study was based on information retained in TB registers of the centres. Demographic characteristics and treatment outcome of children registered between 2002 and 2007 were retrieved. Risk factors for unfavourable outcome (failure, default or death) were calculated. Of 851 (165 with smear-positive, 475 smear-negative and 206 extrapulmonary TB) children, 655 (77%) were cured or completed and 124 (14.6%) had unfavourable outcome. Treatment success rate increased with age from 66% in children <5 y old to 81% in 5-9-y-olds and 85% in >/=10-y-olds (p <0.001). 75% of patients with smear-negative TB had favourable outcome compared to 80.6% for smear-positive cases (p =0.06). Age <5 y, lack of smear conversion in the second month and living in rural areas were independent risk factors for unfavourable treatment outcome. In conclusion, the outcome of TB treatment varies with age, residency and smear results. Reporting only cases with smear-positive TB disproportionally excludes a higher proportion of children than adults. Surveillance systems to monitor TB outcome in children need to be improved.

UI  - 19965813
TI  - Efficacy of a 6-month versus 9-month intermittent treatment regimen in HIV-infected patients with tuberculosis: a randomized clinical trial.
AB  - Among antiretroviral treatment-naive HIV-infected patients with TB, a 9-month regimen resulted in a similar outcome at the end of treatment but a significantly lower bacteriological recurrence rate compared with a 6-month thrice-weekly regimen. ARR was high with these intermittent regimens and neither mortality nor ARR was altered by lengthening TB treatment. Clinical Trials Registry Information: ID# NCT00376012 registered at www.clinicaltrials.gov.

UI  - 19951437
TI  - Tuberculosis treatment adherence and fatality in Spain.
AB  - Immigrants, those living alone, residents of confined institutions, patients treated previously, those with treatment comprehension difficulties, and IDU patients have poor adherence and should be targeted for DOT. To reduce fatality rates, stricter monitoring is required for patients who are retired, HIV-infected, IDU, and those with treatment comprehension difficulties.

UI  - 19928571
TI  - [Effect of ascorbic acid and emoxypine on the dynamics of the quantitative roentgenological and clinical semiology parameters during infiltrative tuberculosis of lungs].
AB  - Prospective, placebo-controlled randomized investigation has been performed to evaluate the effect of ascorbic acid and emoxypine on the dynamics of changes in the roentgenological and clinical pattern during infiltrative tuberculosis of lungs in comparison to the rate of Micobacterium tuberculosis eradication during the standard chemotherapy. The results show that it is expedient to include these substances in the standard chemotherapy scheme. The administration of ascorbic acid and emoxypine during the first 10 days of the standard schedule ensures accelerated resolution of tubercular infitrates and increased rate of closing of the tuberculous disintegration cavities. The use ofemoxypine accelerates the eradication of M. tuberculosis.

UI  - 19917035
TI  - Tuberculosis patient expenditure on drugs and tests in subsidised, public services in China: a descriptive study.
AB  - Despite an ostensibly fully subsidised TB programme in China, patients are charged substantive amounts irrespective of income. Research is needed to confirm these practices are widespread but this needs to be coupled with financing strategies to tackle it.

UI  - 19910173
TI  - Effect of green tea extract (catechins) in reducing oxidative stress seen in patients of pulmonary tuberculosis on DOTS Cat I regimen.
AB  - These findings suggest that crude catechin extract can play a definite role as adjuvant therapy in management of oxidative stress seen in pulmonary tuberculosis patients. More detailed studies are needed to document use of catechin in reducing the frequency and severity of side effects of treatment.

UI  - 19895208
TI  - Antiretroviral drug-resistant mutations at baseline and at time of failure of antiretroviral therapy in HIV type 1-coinfected TB patients.
AB  - There is limited information on the prevalence and pattern of HIV drug-resistant mutations (DRMs) among HIV-1-coinfected tuberculosis (TB) patients before and after antiretroviral treatment. Patients with HIV-1 and TB were recruited into a clinical trial from two different once-daily antiretroviral regimens and followed for a period of 6 months after ART initiation. Patients were treated with standard short-course anti-TB treatment (2EHRZ3/4RH3) and were randomized to receive ddI/3TC with either nevirapine or efavirenz, once daily. Genotypic drug resistance (DR) testing was carried out for the pol gene at baseline and at the time of virological failure. At baseline, major DRMs with respect to NNRTIs (G190GA) and TAMs (T215S and I) were observed in 3 out of 107 patients. Of 15 treatment failures, 14 had more than one major NRTI and NNRTI mutation. V106M was the major NNRTI mutation that emerged in EFZ and Y181C in the NVP group. Among NRTI mutations, M184V was the commonest followed by L74I/V. Primary drug resistance to antiretroviral drugs was low among HIV-1 co-infected TB patients in south India. A once-daily regimen of ddI/3TC/EFZ or NVP results in a specific pattern of NNRTI mutations and negligible thymidine analog mutations (TAMs).

UI  - 19886982
TI  - Adherence to isoniazid prophylaxis among HIV-infected children: a randomized controlled trial comparing two dosing schedules.
AB  - Clinical Trials NCT00330304.

UI  - 19886838
TI  - Immunologic markers as predictors of tuberculosis-associated immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome in HIV and tuberculosis coinfected persons in Thailand.
AB  - This study analyzes immunologic markers to predict and diagnose tuberculosis-associated immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome (TB-IRIS) in HIV and TB coinfected adults who initiated antiretroviral therapy (ART) in Thailand. T helper 1 cytokines interleukin (IL)-2, IL-12, and interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) levels in response to PPD and RD1 antigens were assessed prior to ART, at weeks 6, 12, and 24 of treatment, and at time of TB-IRIS. Of 126 subjects, 22 (17.5%) developed TB-IRIS; 14 (64%) subjects received steroid treatment and 3 (14%) received NSAIDs; none of the subjects died. Median interval between ART initiation and TB-IRIS development was 14 days. IFN-gamma, IL-2, and IL-12 responses did not differ between TB-IRIS and no TB-IRIS subjects (p > 0.05). More research into the immunopathogenesis of TB-IRIS and diagnostic potential of cytokine markers is warranted.

UI  - 19880218
TI  - [Antituberculosis treatment default among the immigrant population: mobility and lack of family support].
AB  - Antituberculosis treatment outcomes in the immigrant population need to be improved. To achieve this aim, healthcare coordination should be improved in the mobile population and strategies to increase treatment compliance among persons not living with relatives are required.

UI  - 19861008
TI  - Assessment of global capacity to conduct tuberculosis drug development trials: do we have what it takes?
AB  - This survey indicates that developing adequate capacity to fully evaluate the compounds now in the clinical phases of development will require significant capacity-building efforts.

UI  - 19858174
TI  - Food incentives to improve completion of tuberculosis treatment: randomised controlled trial in Dili, Timor-Leste.
AB  - Clinical Trials NCT0019256.

UI  - 19845920
TI  - The social reality of migrant men with tuberculosis in Kathmandu: implications for DOT in practice.
AB  - The needs of migrant workers with TB living in Kathmandu are not being adequately met. Current service provision needs to be reviewed to build in greater flexibility and support for migrant men.

UI  - 19828165
TI  - Drug susceptibility profile of Mycobacterium tuberculosis isolated from HIV infected and uninfected pulmonary tuberculosis patients in eastern India.
AB  - HIV is driving the tuberculosis (TB) epidemic in many developing countries including India. This study was initiated to determine the drug resistance pattern of pulmonary TB among 200 HIV seropositive and 50 HIV negative hospitalized patients from different states of Eastern India. The TB positive isolates (120) were screened and characterized by conventional laboratory methods followed by first- and second-line drug susceptibility testing on Lowenstein-Jensen medium by the proportion method. The drug susceptibility testing showed 17.7% (16/90) and 6.6% (2/30) multidrug-resistant (MDR) TB for the HIV positive and HIV negative patients, respectively. 22.2% (4/18) of the isolated MDR-TB cases could be classified as extensively drug-resistant (XDR) TB isolates. 88.8% (16/18) of all the MDR-TB isolates and all XDR-TB isolates were screened from HIV patients. Five (27.7%) of the 18 MDR-TB isolates showed resistance to all the first-line drugs. Mortality rate among the XDR-TB isolates was as high as 75% (3/4). Patients with interrupted anti-TB drug treatment were the ones most affected. These findings are critical and the risk to public health is high, particularly with HIV infected patients.

UI  - 19825284
TI  - Corticosteroids (dexamethasone versus intravenous methylprednisolone) in patients with tuberculous meningitis.
AB  - As inflammatory changes play an important role in the neuropathogenesis of the disease, adjunctive corticosteroid treatment may be of benefit in tuberculous meningitis. In an open-label study in India, 97 patients with such meningitis were randomized into a control group, a dexamethasone group (with the drug given intravenously once a day for 4 weeks, and then orally, once daily, for another 4 weeks) and a methylprednisolone group (with the drug given intravenously once a day for 5 days). All the patients also received standard anti-tuberculosis drugs. The primary outcome measure was death or severe disability 6 months after the randomization, with a modified Rankin scale used to assess each patient's level of disability. The other outcome measures investigated were deterioration in vision, focal neurological deficits and new-onset seizures. Six patients (one of those given dexamethasone, three of those given methylprednisolone and two of those in the control group) were lost to follow-up. Although each corticosteroid was associated with a reduction in death or disability, this reduction did not reach statistical significance in either the dexamethasone group (relative risk of death=0.6, with a 95% confidence interval of 0.29-1.2; P>0.05) or the methylprednisolone group (relative risk of death=0.7, with a 95% confidence interval of 0.4-1.4; P>0.05), probably because of the small sample sizes. Among the patients who died within 10 months of randomization, the mean time to death (post-randomization) was 8.8 months in the dexamethasone group, 8.2 months in the methylprednisolone group, and 7.1 months in the control group (P>0.05). The prevalence of impaired vision, among all the patients evaluated, decreased from 41.8% at baseline to 29.9% (among the survivors) 6 months later. Adverse events were similar and equally reported in the two corticosteroid groups. Larger trials are still needed to determine if dexamethasone and/or methylprednisolone are useful in the treatment of tuberculous meningitis, at least in India.

UI  - 19807276
TI  - Pharmacokinetic evaluation of rifabutin in combination with lopinavir-ritonavir in patients with HIV infection and active tuberculosis.
AB  - The recommended rifabutin doses for use with lopinavir-ritonavir may be inadequate in many patients. Monitoring of plasma concentrations is recommended.

UI  - 19803365
TI  - [Cytoflavine effect on exudative-destructive manifestations of lung tuberculosis in children and teenagers].
AB  - A prospective, placebo-controlled ordinary-"blind"-randomized investigation of the cytoflavine effect on roentgenological manifestations of exudative-destructive processes in pulmonary tissues in cases of tuberculosis in children and teenagers has been performed in comparison to changes in the the functional state of neutrophilic granulocytes and Micobacterium tuberculosis incidence in sputum during a standard four-months course of antituberculosis therapy. It is estasblished that the administration of cytoflavine at the beginning of antituberculosis complex therapy (10 mL per 24 hours, for 5 days) results in rapid suppression of exudative-destructive disease manifestations and quick cavity repair in tuberculosis-affected areas, at an increase in the probability of outcome with "small post-tuberculosis changes". The rapid suppression of exudative-destructive processes in patients having received cytoflavine was caused by its optimizing influence on phagocytic blood capacity and did not depend on the development of abacillarity in patients.

UI  - 19793865
TI  - Latent TB infection treatment acceptance and completion in the United States and Canada.
AB  - Fewer than half of the people starting treatment of LTBI completed therapy. Shorter regimens and interventions targeting residents of congregate settings, injection drug users, and employees of health-care facilities are needed to increase completion.

UI  - 19789647
TI  - Dexamethasone, cerebrospinal fluid matrix metalloproteinase concentrations and clinical outcomes in tuberculous meningitis.
AB  - Dexamethasone decreased CSF MMP-9 concentrations early in treatment and this may represent one mechanism by which corticosteroids improve outcome in TBM. The strong correlation between CSF MMP-9 and neutrophil count suggests that polymorphonuclear leukocytes may play a central role in the early pathogenesis of TBM.

UI  - 19768237
TI  - Performance of primary healthcare services in tuberculosis control.
AB  - Although the city has 85 PSF teams, supervised treatment was carried out by few health workers. Although the tuberculosis treatment is offered by the public health service, it still represents a cost to the patients, due to the distance to the healthcare service and losing half work day in order to attend medical visits.

UI  - 19759505
TI  - A multicentre study of doctors' approaches to the diagnosis and treatment of tuberculosis in Turkey.
AB  - A great diversity was seen between daily practice of doctors and national guidelines about TB. Educational programmes conducted by specialists in TB control may help to standardize and increase the knowledge of TB.

UI  - 19723408
TI  - Pharmacokinetics of prothionamide in patients with multidrug-resistant tuberculosis.
AB  - In the pharmacokinetic parameter estimates for PTH in MDR-TB patients during routine treatment, the pharmacokinetics of PTH did not appear to correlate with extent of emaciation in MDR-TB patients.

UI  - 19704172
TI  - Effect of rifampicin-based antitubercular therapy and the cytochrome P450 2B6 516G>T polymorphism on efavirenz concentrations in adults in South Africa.
AB  - Efavirenz can be used together with rifampicin-based antitubercular therapy without dose adjustment in this population. The 516G>T polymorphism occurred commonly and was associated with high efavirenz concentrations.

UI  - 19697853
TI  - [Efficiency of lymphotropic intermittent chemotherapy in the complex treatment of patients with progressive pulmonary tuberculosis].
AB  - The study has established that during a progressive tuberculous process, immunological changes appear as significant increased proinflammatory cytokine production that leads to progressive destructive processes in the lung parenchymal lesion areas. Inclusion of lymphotrophic chemoimmunotherapy with roncoleukin into the complex therapy of patients with progressive pulmonary tuberculosis permits the optimization of the results of treatment in patients with progressive pulmonary tuberculosis due to the target delivery of antituberculous and immunoactive agents.

UI  - 19667282
TI  - Prospective randomized trial of six-month versus nine-month therapy for intestinal tuberculosis.
AB  - Intestinal tuberculosis (TB) continues to be a common disease worldwide. However, the optimal duration of anti-TB medication has not been well established. We therefore compared the efficacy of 6-month and 9-month therapy in the treatment of intestinal TB. Ninety patients definitely diagnosed with intestinal TB were randomized into 6-month (n = 45) or 9-month (n = 45) treatment groups, prospectively. The primary end point was complete response, defined as endoscopic healing of active lesions. Patients were followed up monthly for 3 months after therapy initiation, then every 3 months until the end of therapy, and finally 1 year later. Relapse was assessed 1 year after the end of therapy by patient interview and colonoscopy. Baseline characteristics were similar in the 6-month and 9-month groups. Intention-to-treat analysis revealed no significant differences between the two groups in complete response (6-month group, 93.3%; 9-month group, 91.1%; P = 1.00) or recurrence rate (6-month group, 2.4%; 9-month group, 0.0%; P = 1.00). Median follow-up duration was 39 months in the 6-month group and 32 months in the 9-month group. No surgery was performed on any patient in either group. In conclusion, the 6-month therapy was as effective as 9-month therapy in patients with intestinal TB and may have the additional benefits of reduced treatment cost and increased compliance.

UI  - 19642573
TI  - [Role of material incentives of medical workers in the early detection and effective treatment of new cases of pulmonary tuberculosis in the Republic of Dagestan].
AB  - The authors studied the efficiency of material incentives in the amount of 300 rubles for each case to medical workers of the general health care network for early detection and to those of tuberculosis facilities for effective treatment us in 2001-2007. Due to the tuberculosis-controlling measures made in these years with the mechanism of material incentives to medical workers being introduced, the tuberculosis situation stabilized and the major epidemiological indices, such as morbidity, mortality, and prevalence, decreased by 1.3, 2.2, and 1.7 times, respectively. The higher fluorographic coverage of the population and the introduction of microscopy at the general health care facilities resulted in that the number of new cases of fibrocavernous tuberculosis from 5.6 to 0.7% and, on the contrary, the proportion of bacteria-excreting subjected among the new cases of pulmonary tuberculosis increased from 18.4% in 2000 to 45.2% in 2007 or by 2.5 times (p < 0.001). The results of treatment of the new cases became better. Thus, there were increases in the rate of bacterial discharging cessation from 67% in 2000 to 84.5% in 2007 (p < 0.001), that of cavity closure from 59% in 2000 to 75.2% in 2007 (p < 0.001), and that of transfer to diagnostic registration group III from 23.1% in 2000 to 32.4% in 2007 (p < 0.01). Thus, introduction of the material incentives to the medical workers of the general health care network and tuberculosis facilities had a positive impact on the quality of diagnosis and the efficiency of treatment in patients with tuberculosis.

UI  - 19628728
TI  - Interindividual variability in pharmacokinetics of generic nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors in TB/HIV-coinfected Ghanaian patients: UGT2B7*1c is associated with faster zidovudine clearance and glucuronidation.
AB  - There are limited data on the pharmacokinetics of generic nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) in native African populations, in whom they are commonly used. The authors characterized the pharmacokinetics of lamivudine (n = 27), zidovudine (n = 16), and stavudine (n = 11) in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)/tuberculosis (TB)-coinfected Ghanaians and evaluated associations between zidovudine metabolism and UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) 2B7 polymorphisms. Lamivudine, zidovudine, and stavudine apparent oral clearance (CL/F) values (mean +/- SD [% coefficient of variation [CV]) were 7.3 +/- 2.8 (39%), 31.9 +/- 33.6 (106%), and 16.4 +/- 5.8 (35%) mL/min/kg, respectively, whereas half-life values were 4.2 +/- 1.9 (46%), 8.1 +/- 7.9 (98%), and 1.5 +/- 1.0 (65%) hours, respectively. Zidovudine CL/F was 196% higher (P = .004) in UGT2B7*1c (c.735A>G) carriers versus noncarriers. This was confirmed using human liver bank samples (n = 52), which showed 48% higher (P = .020) zidovudine glucuronidation and 33% higher (P = .015) UGT2B7 protein in UGT2B7*1c carriers versus noncarriers. In conclusion, generic NRTI pharmacokinetics in HIV/TB-coinfected Ghanaians are similar to other populations, whereas the UGT2B7*1c polymorphism may explain in part relatively high interindividual variability in zidovudine clearance.

UI  - 19565883
TI  - [Study on the efficacy and safety of short-term treatment including fluoroquinolones anti-tuberculosis drugs for rifampicin resistant pulmonary tuberculosis].
AB  - The efficacy of treatment including fluoroquinolones anti-tuberculosis drugs group seemed better than the re-treatment regimen group in treating patients with rifampicin resistant pulmonary tuberculosis and those MDR-TB patients.

UI  - 19565809
TI  - [Roncoleukin in enhancing the efficiency of complex therapy for infiltrative pulmonary tuberculosis in adolescents].
AB  - Seventy-eight patients, aged 15.69 +/- 0.15 years, who had infiltrative pulmonary tuberculosis, were examined. Roncoleukin was given intravenously in 20 patients of them (Subgroup 1a), in an indirect lymphotropic fashion in 30 patients (Subgroup 1b); 28 adolescents were treated with the conventional treatments (Group 2). A decay phase was recorded in 33 (66%) from Group 1 and in 16 (57.1%) from Group 2. On admission, all 78 (100%) patients had immunological disorders that required immunomodulation. Roncoleukin caused positive clinical and X-ray changes that were more pronounced in Subgroup 1b: bacterial excretion cessation was recorded in 100% of patients in Subgroup 1a (p < 0.05); in 94.4% in Subgroup 1b (p < 0.05), and in 68.7% in Group 2; decay cavities closed in 69.2, 60, and 37.5% in Subgroups 1a and 1b and Group 2. At the same time, the duration of a procedure considerably reduced, which positively affected adolescents' compliance.

UI  - 19564361
TI  - Population pharmacokinetics of linezolid in adults with pulmonary tuberculosis.
AB  - Nineteen adults with pulmonary tuberculosis received linezolid (600 mg) once or twice daily in an early bactericidal activity trial. A one-compartment population model produced median values for the absorption rate constant, volume of distribution, and elimination rate constant of 1.5 h(-1), 29.6 liters, and 0.25 h(-1) (once daily) and 2.7 h(-1), 32.1 liters, and 0.15 h(-1) (twice daily). Linezolid administered twice daily produced higher values for free drug area under the concentration-time curve (AUC)/MIC and time above MIC. Both regimens achieved free AUC/MIC ratios > 100. Median times above the MIC for free drug were 100% (twice daily) and 63% (once daily).

UI  - 19542476
TI  - Shortening treatment in adults with noncavitary tuberculosis and 2-month culture conversion.
AB  - Shortening treatment from 6 to 4 months in adults with noncavitary disease and culture conversion after 2 months using current drugs resulted in a greater relapse rate. The combination of noncavitary disease and 2-month culture conversion was insufficient to identify patients with decreased risk for relapse.

UI  - 19499716
TI  - [Rifapex, a new antituberculosis agent].
AB  - Clinico-roentgenologic and bacteriologic efficacy and safety of rifapex (rifapentin) were investigated in the complex therapy of 90 patients with newly recorded drug-susceptible tuberculosis. Pifapex was shown to be effective in the treatment of the patients during the acute phase of the disease, during the treatment completeness and during the short preoperative period.

UI  - 19499715
TI  - [Levofloxacin (Tavanic) in complex therapy of tuberculosis].
AB  - Preclinical and clinical investigations of levofloxacin in complex with antituberculosis drugs of the main and reserve groups in 152 patients with newly diagnosticated drug resistant pulmonary tuberculosis demonstrated its efficacy and safety. The adverse events due to levofloxacin (8.6% of the cases) disappeared after discontinuation of the drug use without any affection of the patient's organs. Levofloxacin is applicable in antituberculosis therapy of patients with extended, acute progressing or polycavernous tuberculosis of the lungs. It provides significant clinical improvement and if necessary allows to prepare the patient in a short period for surgical operation.

UI  - 19494215
TI  - The diarylquinoline TMC207 for multidrug-resistant tuberculosis.
AB  - The clinical activity of TMC207 validates ATP synthase as a viable target for the treatment of tuberculosis. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00449644.)

UI  - 19460254
TI  - Comparison of a four-drug fixed-dose combination regimen with a single tablet regimen in smear-positive pulmonary tuberculosis.
AB  - The efficacy of the 4-FDC regimen was non-inferior to that of the ST regimens, but patient acceptability significantly improved with 4-FDC.

UI  - 19456829
TI  - Treatment of cavitary and infiltrating pulmonary tuberculosis with and without the immunomodulator Dzherelo.
AB  - An open-label, 60-day trial was conducted in 75 newly diagnosed tuberculosis (TB) patients to assess the adjunctive effect of the oral immunomodulator Dzherelo with standard anti-TB chemotherapy (ATT) consisting of izoniazid, rifampicin, pyrazinamide and streptomycin (HRZS) administered as directly observed therapy (DOT). Group 1 (n = 28) with cavitary TB and group 2 (n = 17) with infiltrating pulmonary TB received 50 drops of Dzherelo twice daily in addition to HRZS. Group 3 (n = 30), which served as a control, received ATT only. Liver damage indicators, bilirubin, alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) decreased to normal levels in groups 1 and 2, but increased significantly in group 3. Kidney failure markers, urea and creatinine, normalized in Dzherelo recipients, but were unchanged or worsened in the ATT-only group. The changes in serum lactate dehydrogenase, catalase, malondialdehyde and diene conjugates suggested that Dzherelo downregulates TB-associated inflammation. The anti-inflammatory property of Dzherelo was further supported by a favourable haematology profile, reduced erythrocyte sedimentation rate and faster defervescence. Radiological recovery was significant in both Dzherelo groups, but not in the control group (p = 0.0085, p = 0.025 and p = 0.23, respectively). These findings correlated positively with sputum smear conversion and clinical findings (r = 0.94; p < 0.05). Mycobacterial clearance at day 30 was observed in 77%, 72% and 40% of patients in groups 1, 2 and 3, respectively. After 2 months sputum conversion rates in groups 1, 2 and 3 were 93%, 89% and 70%, respectively. Sixty-day treatment outcomes in groups 1, 2 and 3 as assessed by improvement in clinical features and respiratory function attained respective p-values of 0.008, 0.25 and 0.72, and 0.013, 0.48 and 0.0015. Dzherelo is thus useful as an immunotherapeutic adjunct in the management of TB.

UI  - 19438397
TI  - A randomized trial comparing plasma drug concentrations and efficacies between 2 nonnucleoside reverse-transcriptase inhibitor-based regimens in HIV-infected patients receiving rifampicin: the N2R Study.
AB  - Antiretroviral therapy regimens containing efavirenz (600 mg per day) were less compromised by concomitant use of rifampicin than were those that contained nevirapine (400 mg per day) in patients with concurrent HIV-1 infection and TB. Low drug exposure and low body weight are important predictive factors for treatment failure.

UI  - 19406981
TI  - Substitution of moxifloxacin for isoniazid during intensive phase treatment of pulmonary tuberculosis.
AB  - Substitution of moxifloxacin for isoniazid resulted in a small but statistically nonsignificant increase in Week-8 culture negativity.

UI  - 19394664
TI  - Evaluation of directly observed therapy for tuberculosis in KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa.
AB  - Tuberculosis (TB) is one of the leading causes of morbidity and mortality in KwaZulu-Natal (KZN), South Africa. Directly observed therapy (DOT) is a key element of the WHO's Directly Observed Treatment, Short Course (DOTS) strategy to control TB. Since the inception of DOTS in South Africa in 1996, its impact has never been assessed. We evaluated the DOT programme in the priority facilities of the four TB crises districts (EThekwini, UMgungundlovu, UMzinyathi and UThungulu) in the province of KwaZulu-Natal. A semi-structured questionnaire was used to interview TB nurses and community DOT supporters. The primary outcome used was cure rate. On average, priority facilities in districts that have high DOT coverage had better cure rates compared with those that have low DOT coverage (beta=0.818, 95% CI 0.023-1.614; P=0.045). The fewer the number of patients allocated to a DOT supporter the higher the cure rates (beta=-1.984; 95% CI -3.88 to 0.086; P=0.041). There was no difference in cure rates between facilities with tangible reporting and recording methods and those with none. These findings suggest that cure rates can be improved if DOT is implemented appropriately.

UI  - 19392747
TI  - Barriers to TB care for rural-to-urban migrant TB patients in Shanghai: a qualitative study.
AB  - Health system problems caused the biggest barrier to migrant patients' access to TB care. The free treatment policy alone has little, if any, effect in reducing migrant patients' financial stress: it is also essential to provide social welfare, including living subsidies, for poor migrant TB patients.

UI  - 19386087
TI  - Rifampin pharmacokinetics in children, with and without human immunodeficiency virus infection, hospitalized for the management of severe forms of tuberculosis.
AB  - Both human immunodeficiency virus-infected and human immunodeficiency virus-uninfected children with tuberculosis have very low rifampin serum concentrations after receiving standard rifampin dosages similar to those used in adults. Pharmacokinetic studies of higher dosages of rifampin are urgently needed in children to assist in placing the dosage of rifampin used in childhood on a more scientific foundation.

UI  - 19382668
TI  - Tuberculosis and immigrants: a SIMIT (Italian Society of Infectious Diseases) clinical, epidemiological multicentric research investigation.
AB  - The aim of the study was to evaluate the epidemiology and the diagnostic, clinical and therapeutic aspects of immigrants affected by tuberculosis, hospitalized in 35 Italian Infectious Diseases Clinics during 2003. The data obtained showed that 300/2392 (12.5%) patients had active tuberculosis, 10.3% of whom had concomitant HIV infection. 53% of the patients were legal residents and were assisted by the National Health Service; 48.3% came from African regions. The mean length of residency in Italy at the time of hospitalization was 4 years. The main clinical forms were pulmonary (66%), lymph nodal (15.3%) and bone TB (5.3%). Drug resistance was demonstrated in 16% of cases with 9% cases of resistance to isoniazid, 8.2% to streptomycin, 5.1% to pyrazinamide, 2.6% to ethambutol, 2.6% to rifampicin; in 5.3% of cases a multiple resistance was demonstrated. A complete adherence to treatment was achieved in 213 patients. Statistical analysis disclosed a significant correlation between compliance with treatment and legal citizenship status. In conclusion, TB still represents an important disease among immigrants. Improved living conditions, both in countries of origin and in Italy, especially in the first few years, would certainly decrease the incidence of TB.

UI  - 19364398
TI  - HIV care and treatment factors associated with improved survival during TB treatment in Thailand: an observational study.
AB  - Among HIV-infected patients living in Thailand, the single most important determinant of survival during TB treatment was use of ART. Controlled clinical trials are needed to confirm our findings that early ART initiation improves survival and that the choice of non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor does not.

UI  - 19345831
TI  - Moxifloxacin versus ethambutol in the initial treatment of tuberculosis: a double-blind, randomised, controlled phase II trial.
AB  - Moxifloxacin improved culture conversion in the initial phase of tuberculosis treatment. Trials to assess whether moxifloxacin can be used to shorten the duration of tuberculosis treatment are justified.

UI  - 19333944
TI  - Golimumab, a new human tumor necrosis factor alpha antibody, administered every four weeks as a subcutaneous injection in psoriatic arthritis: Twenty-four-week efficacy and safety results of a randomized, placebo-controlled study.
AB  - Treatment with golimumab at doses of 50 mg and 100 mg significantly improved active PsA and associated skin and nail psoriasis through week 24.

UI  - 19323040
TI  - Characteristics of HIV-infected tuberculosis patients in Thailand.
AB  - To improve understanding about the epidemiology and clinical features of HIV-associated tuberculosis (TB) infection we conducted a prospective, multi-center observational study of HIV-infected TB patients in Thailand. We enrolled HIV-infected patients diagnosed with TB at public health facilities from three provinces and the national infectious diseases referral hospital in Thailand. Patients underwent standardized interviews, evaluations, and laboratory testing at the beginning of TB treatment. We analyzed demographic and clinical characteristics of patients and stratified our findings by level of immune-suppression and whether antiretroviral therapy (ART) was used before TB diagnosis. Of 769 patients analyzed, pulmonary TB was diagnosed in 461 (60%). The median CD4+ T-lymphocyte (CD4) count was 63 cells/microl [interquartile range (IQR), 23-163.5] and the median HIV RNA viral load was 308,000 copies/ml (IQR, 51,900-759,000) at the time of TB diagnosis. Methamphetamine use was reported by 304 patients (40%), marijuana by 267 patients (35%), and injection drug use by 199 patients (26%). Three hundred three patients (40%) reported having been previously incarcerated. Among sexually active patients, 142 (42%) reported never using condoms at all. Patients with CD4 counts <200 cells/microl were significantly more likely than patients with CD4 counts > or =200 cells/microl to have extra-pulmonary TB, fever, fatigue, muscle weakness, no hemoptysis, tachycardia, low body mass index, jaundice, or no pleural effusion. Of the 94 patients that received ART before TB diagnosis, the median time from ART initiation to TB diagnosis was 105 days (IQR, 31-468). HIV-infected patients who developed TB after ART initiation were more likely than other HIV-infected TB patients to have extra-pulmonary TB, a normal chest radiograph, low HIV RNA viral load, or a history of previous TB treatment.

UI  - 19318348
TI  - Extensively drug-resistant tuberculosis in the UK: 1995 to 2007.
AB  - Levels of MDRTB remain low, and those of XDRTB very low, in this high income country. The case fatality ratio among XDRTB cases was high despite low levels of HIV co-infection.

UI  - 19308905
TI  - [Treatment outcomes in culture positive pulmonary tuberculosis].
AB  - The treatment success rate (the rate of cures and treatment completers) in 1995 and 2000 was 58.8% and 54.0% and was lower than that recommended by WHO (at least 85%). The results demonstrated that the treatment outcomes in the former Gdansk Province in 2000, following the implementation of the DOTS strategy, were significantly better than those in 1995, when the strategy was not being followed. Treatment success was observed in 89.6% and 69.3% of the patients, respectively (p = 0.0037).

UI  - 19295333
TI  - Successful integration of tuberculosis and HIV treatment in rural South Africa: the Sizonq'oba study.
AB  - Integration of TB and HIV treatment in a rural setting using concurrent home-based therapy resulted in excellent adherence and TB and HIV outcomes. This model may result in successful management of both diseases in other rural resource-poor settings.

UI  - 19282348
TI  - A retrospective TBNET assessment of linezolid safety, tolerability and efficacy in multidrug-resistant tuberculosis.
AB  - Linezolid is used to treat patients with multidrug-resistant (MDR)/extensively drug-resistant (XDR)-tuberculosis (TB) cases, although clinical data on its safety, tolerability and efficacy are lacking. We performed a retrospective, nonrandomised, unblinded observational study evaluating the safety and tolerability of linezolid at 600 mg q.d. or b.i.d. in MDR/XDR-TB treatment in four European countries. Efficacy evaluation compared end-points of 45 linezolid-treated against 110 linezolid-nontreated cases. Out of 195 MDR/XDR-TB patients, 85 were treated with linezolid for a mean of 221 days. Of these, 35 (41.2%) out of 85 experienced major side-effects attributed to linezolid (anaemia, thrombocytopenia and/or polyneuropathy), requiring discontinuation in 27 (77%) cases. Most side-effects occurred after 60 days of treatment. Twice-daily administration produced more major side-effects than once-daily dosing (p = 0.0004), with no difference in efficacy found. Outcomes were similar in patients treated with/without linezolid (p = 0.8), although linezolid-treated cases had more first-line (p = 0.002) and second-line (p = 0.02) drug resistance and a higher number of previous treatment regimens (4.5 versus 2.3; p = 0.07). Linezolid 600 mg q.d. added to an individualised multidrug regimen may improve the chance of bacteriological conversion, providing a better chance of treatment success in only the most complicated MDR/XDR-TB cases. Its safety profile does not warrant use in cases for which there are other, safer, alternatives.

UI  - 19250549
TI  - T-SPOT.TB responses during treatment of pulmonary tuberculosis.
AB  - IFN-gamma-producing RD1-specific T cells, as measured in the T-SPOT.TB assay, may be directly related to bacterial load in patients undergoing treatment for pulmonary TB. However, high inter-subject variability in quantitative results coupled with failure of reversion to negative of qualitative results in most subjects at treatment completion may limit the utility of this assay as a surrogate marker for treatment efficacy.

UI  - 19223781
TI  - Effect of rifampicin on efavirenz pharmacokinetics in HIV-infected children with tuberculosis.
AB  - Concomitant rifampicin-based antitubercular treatment was not an important determinant of efavirenz concentrations. The substantial proportion of participants with estimated Cmin <1 mg/L could result in the rapid emergence of efavirenz-resistant mutations and treatment failure.

UI  - 19196530
TI  - HIV-associated extrapulmonary tuberculosis in Thailand: epidemiology and risk factors for death.
AB  - Among HIV-infected patients with TB, extrapulmonary disease occurred in 40% of the patients, particularly in those with advanced immune suppression. Death during TB treatment was common, but the risk of death was reduced in patients who took co-trimoxazole, fluconazole, and antiretroviral therapy.

UI  - 19192895
TI  - [The performance of health services in providing DOTs in households to control tuberculosis].
AB  - Exploratory study of qualitative and quantitative nature that evaluates the performance of the health services in providing DOT in households of a big city in Brazil. For the quantitative analysis, indexes were created to evaluate the optimization of material/human resources and the observation of the medicine ingestion. It was observed that performance of services is influenced by the availability of human/material resources, the internal organization of services and the absence of the ill person in the household. For the qualitative analysis it was used the content analysis, thematic modality. The main factors influencing the performance of the health service were found to be its insufficiency of material and human resources and the ill person's social-cultural and economic context. Concluding, it is necessary permanent managerial, organizational and techno-assistance qualification of the health professionals in the TB control.

UI  - 19186714
TI  - [Influence of garlic moxibustion on the therapeutic effect in re-treatment patients of tuberculosis].
AB  - Moxibustion can increase the therapeutic effect for the re-treatment patient of tuberculosis.

UI  - 19186681
TI  - [Multidrug resistant tuberculosis in Romania in the last years (2004-2007)--an extremely important social phenomenon].
AB  - The emergence of resistance to drugs used to treat tuberculosis (TB), and particularly multidrug resistant (MDR-TB) strains, has become a significant public health problem in a number of countries and an obstacle to effective global TB control. In many other countries, the extent of drug resistance is unknown and the management of the patients with MDR-TB is inadequate. In countries where drug resistance has been identified, specific measures need to be taken within TB control programmes to address the problem through appropriate management of patients and adoption of strategies to prevent the propagation and dissemination of drug resistant TB, including MDR-TB. In Romania there are two centers for the management of MDR-TB cases: one in Bucharest at The National Pneumology Institute "Marius Nasta" and the other at Bisericani (Neamt district). The comparative analysis of MDR-TB cases and under treatment evolution was done, in the two excellence centers Bucharest and Bisericani from 2004 to 2007. This is a retrospective study of MDR-TB patients enrolled in Romania between 2004-2007. All patients evaluated were managed under The National Tuberculosis Programme approved protocols and had the opportunity to receive more than 24 months of treatment. In addition, follow-up data on successfully treated patients were collected at the beginning of 2007. This study is based on an MDR register, and a software collecting information on MDR-TB cases. In order to be accepted in one of the two MDR centers, patients need to fulfill certain criteria to improve the treatment results. A total number of 305 MDR-TB patients were registered at the beginning of 2007 in Bucharest MDR center; this study used a number of 170 MDR-TB patients from Bucharest who fulfilled the study's criteria in oppose to the 294 MDR-TB patients from Bisericani. 184 patients from the first cohort of DOTS-Plus project were evaluated until the end of the study: 55 were completed treatment and 54 cured, which means 59,23% succes rate. The conversion rate of culture at 4 months (for the first cohort) in MDR excellence centers was: Bucharest--72,5% and Bisericani--64%.

UI  - 19179490
TI  - Vitamin D as supplementary treatment for tuberculosis: a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - Vitamin D does not improve clinical outcome among patients with TB and the trial showed no overall effect on mortality in patients with TB; it is possible that the dose used was insufficient. Clinical trial registered with www.controlled-trials.com/isrctn (ISRCTN35212132).

UI  - 19159566
TI  - [Effects of two treatment regimens for drug-resistant tuberculosis in tuberculosis control project areas: a comparative study].
AB  - The drug-resistant regimen recommended above is more effective than the retreatment regimen and should be considered in the areas where the WHO guideline fails to be followed or drug sensitivity test (DST) cannot be conducted and adjusted according to the results of DST and treatment.

UI  - 19142430
TI  - Tuberculosis incidence and risk factors among patients living with HIV/AIDS in public health service institutions in Brasilia, Federal District.
AB  - In order to estimate the incidence of and risk factors for developing tuberculosis, the clinical charts of a retrospective cohort of 281 HIV-positive adults, who were notified to the AIDS Program of the Health Department of Brasilia in 1998, were reviewed in 2003. All the patients were treatment-naive regarding antiretroviral therapy at the time of inclusion in the cohort. Twenty-nine patients were identified as having tuberculosis at the start of the study. Thirteen incident tuberculosis cases were identified during the 60 months of follow-up, with an incidence density rate of 1.24/100 person-years. Tuberculosis incidence was highest among patients with baseline CD4+ T-lymphocyte counts < or = 200 cells/microl who were not using antiretroviral therapy (incidence = 5.47; 95% CI = 2.73 to 10.94). Multivariate analysis showed that baseline CD4+ T-lymphocyte counts < or = 200 cells/microl (adjusted hazard ratio [AHR] = 5.09; 95% CI = 1.27 to 20.37; p = 0.02) and non-use of antiretroviral therapy (AHR = 12.17; 95% CI = 2.6 to 56.90; p = 0.001) were independently associated with increased risk of tuberculosis.

UI  - 19069183
TI  - [Correction of adverse reactions in antimicrobial therapy of respiratory tract tuberculosis].
AB  - Hepatoprotective activity of succinate-containing solution (remaxol) in patients with respiratory tract tuberculosis subjected to specific antibacterial polychemotherapy was estimated by the clinical signs of the drug hepatotoxicity, the activity of cytolytic enzymes and the markers of the cholestatic syndrome in regard to the types of the adaptation reactions. The positive influence of remaxol on the signs of the drug hepatotoxicity and adaptation reactions was shown which was indicative of active use of the plastic substrates, increase of reparative processes in hepatocyte and decrease of the pathological types of reactivity in the patients with respiratory tract tuberculosis.

UI  - 19069180
TI  - [Russian cycloserine in complex therapy of drug resistant tuberculosis].
AB  - 

UI  - 19069179
TI  - [Floracide, a Russian 3rd generation fluoroquinolone in complex therapy of tuberculosis].
AB  - 

UI  - 19069178
TI  - [Sparfloxacin in combined therapy for pulmonary tuberculosis].
AB  - Efficacy and safety of the difluoroquinolone sparfloxacine used in combined therapy for drug-succeptible and drug-resistant pulmonary tuberculosis were studied. Clinical trials enrolled 60 patients with severe pulmonary tuberculosis. The most effective combinations of sparfloxacine and other antituberculous drugs were determined. Data on satisfactory tolerability of sparfloxacine used in various combinations of the main and reserve agents are presented.

UI  - 19062696
TI  - Improvements in physical and mental health among HIV-infected patients treated for TB in Thailand.
AB  - We conducted a prospective, observational study of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infected patients diagnosed with tuberculosis (TB) at public health facilities in Thailand to evaluate the impact of TB and HIV treatment on overall physical and mental health. Standardized data were collected from patients at the time of TB diagnosis, two months into TB treatment, and at completion of TB treatment. We calculated composite physical and mental health scores for patients that completed treatment, compared scores during treatment, and analyzed factors associated with improvements in these scores. Of 493 patients analyzed, 488 (99%) reported at least one physical health complaint and 210 (43%) had at least one mental health complaint at baseline. Improvement in physical health occurred in 377 (76%) and improvement in mental health occurred in 182 (37%). In a multivariable analysis, factors strongly associated with improvement in physical health were receiving TB treatment in Bangkok, age greater than 50 years, and improved mental health. Improvement in mental health was strongly associated with alleviation of physical symptoms, including bloody urine, foot pain, headache, muscle weakness, difficulty sleeping, chest pain, and dizziness.

UI  - 19054717
TI  - Changing Mycobacterium tuberculosis population highlights clade-specific pathogenic characteristics.
AB  - Mycobacterium tuberculosis strains can be classified into a number of major clades according to defined evolutionary markers. It is hypothesised that strains comprising these clades have evolved different properties which may influence a local strain population structure. To investigate this, we analysed the incidence of tuberculosis caused by the predominant clades (Beijing, Haarlem, LAM, Quebec and the Low-Copy Clade) found in a community within the Cape Town metropole in South Africa over a 12-year period. We found that while the incidence of cases infected with strains of the Haarlem, LAM, Quebec and the Low-Copy Clades remained relatively stable, that of cases of the Beijing clade increased exponentially over time, with a doubling time of 4.86 years (P=0.018). This growth was exclusively attributable to drug-susceptible strains. Although drug-resistant Beijing cases remained constant in number, non-Beijing drug-resistant cases declined over time (P=0.007). Drug-susceptible Beijing-infected cases had a greater proportion of smear-positive sputa than their non-Beijing counterparts (P=0.013) and were less likely to be successfully treated (retreatment cases) (P=0.026). Recent evidence suggests that these differences likely reflect enhanced pathogenicity rather than transmissibility. The rapid emergence of Beijing strains demonstrates adaptation to conditions within the study community and poses a grave challenge to future TB control.

UI  - 19052044
TI  - Mycobacterium xenopi pulmonary infections: a multicentric retrospective study of 136 cases in north-east France.
AB  - In contrast to recent guidelines, this study showed three different types of the disease (cavitary, nodular or diffuse infiltrate forms) with a different prognosis. In order to improve survival, all patients with M xenopi infection should be treated with a rifamycin-containing regimen. The usefulness of clarithromycin remains to be evaluated.

UI  - 19052030
TI  - Tuberculosis in the United Kingdom and Republic of Ireland.
AB  - Many paediatricians and centres see few children with tuberculosis. This may affect adherence to national guidelines. Managed clinical networks for children with tuberculosis may improve management and should be the standard of care.

UI  - 19037820
TI  - Is standardized treatment appropriate for non-XDR multiple drug resistant tuberculosis cases? A clinical descriptive study.
AB  - The clinical relevance of second-line drug susceptibility test (DST) results with respect to treatment outcome is unknown in non-XDR MDR patients. This study was carried out in the sole national referral centre for TB in Iran between 2002 and 2006. Multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) patients who had DST to second-line drugs were included. For all MDR-TB patients the standard second-line regimen was initiated. Outcome of treatment based on DST to second-line drugs was analysed. 53 patients were included. DST for second-line drugs was available for 40 patients. Seven patients returned to Afghanistan during treatment. Among the remainder, 13 (30.4%) cases were Iranian. Mean age was 40.8 + 19.7 y. The relatively small sample size imposes some limitations on this study. However, in this study, there was no difference in resistance to second-line drugs by nationality. No significant correlation was seen between resistance to second-line drugs and outcome of treatment. In conclusion, the treatment outcome according to WHO definitions was appropriate in the study population by the use of standardized treatment regimens. Follow-up studies on a long-term basis are however needed in order to detect possible relapses.

UI  - 19027322
TI  - Cytokine profiles of HIV patients with pulmonary tuberculosis resulting from adjunct immunotherapy with herbal phytoconcentrates Dzherelo and Anemin.
AB  - Dzherelo (Immunoxel) and Anemin when combined with standard anti-tuberculosis therapy (ATT) were shown to produce better clinical outcome than chemotherapy alone. Sixty HIV-positive patients with active pulmonary TB were equally divided into three matched groups to receive either ATT, ATT+Dzherelo, or ATT+Dzherelo+Anemin. Peripheral blood samples were measured by ELISA for plasma levels of IL-2, IL-6, TNF-alpha, IFN-gamma, and IFN-alpha. After 6 months of follow-up Dzherelo and Dzherelo+Anemin combinations produced 61% (P=0.005) and 44.4% (P=0.06) higher levels of IL-2, whereas in ATT group they were reduced by 33.1% (P=0.002). The levels of IL-6 increased by 17% (P=0.15) in ATT group, but declined in both immune intervention groups by 26.2% (P=0.007) and 21.3% (P=0.22). TNF-alpha was suppressed in two immunotherapy groups by 19.1% (P=0.06) and 76.3% (P=0.02), respectively, but had risen by 14% (P=0.42) in ATT patients. The pattern of production of IFN-gamma was opposite to that of TNF-alpha, but statistical significance was stronger in patients receiving ATT and Dzherelo+Anemin than in Dzherelo group: -34% (P=0.004), +31.9% (P=0.008), and +17.3% (P=0.33), respectively. Moderately decreased levels of IFN-alpha were observed in all treatment arms (range 0.9-16.6%) but differences were not significant. Despite considerable intra-group variation in cytokine production, the baseline inter-group averages were not statistically different indicating that the results were not biased by sample heterogeneity. Immunomodulators used in this study possibly act by enhancing natural immune response against TB. Expanded study of other cytokines and correlates relevant to control and protection from TB and HIV is needed in order to identify biomarkers of favorable treatment outcome, which may aid design of better immune interventions and vaccines.

UI  - 19017587
TI  - Adverse events with 4 months of rifampin therapy or 9 months of isoniazid therapy for latent tuberculosis infection: a randomized trial.
AB  - Treatment of latent tuberculosis with 4 months of rifampin leads to fewer serious adverse events and better adherence than 9 months of isoniazid. These findings justify a large-scale trial to compare the efficacy of rifampin with that of isoniazid.

UI  - 19009216
TI  - Mycobacterium tuberculosis and nontuberculous mycobacterial isolates among patients with recent HIV infection in Mozambique.
AB  - There is a strong association between tuberculosis and AIDS in Mozambique, as expected in a country with a high prevalence of tuberculosis. Although drug resistance rates are high, the isoniazid-rifampin regimen continues to be the appropriate choice for initial therapy.

UI  - 18983794
TI  - Primary drug resistance to anti-tuberculous drugs in Karachi.
AB  - In the studied patients, primary drug resistance to at least one anti-tuberculosis drug was 11.5%. It requires an efficiently working anti-tuberculosis programme to prevent escalation including resistance.

UI  - 18977647
TI  - Do results of the T-SPOT.TB interferon-gamma release assay change after treatment of tuberculosis?
AB  - Decrease in SFUs under treatment suggests a relationship with antigen load; however, persisting high SFUs were not predictive of unfavourable outcome and test reversion was rare.

UI  - 18937958
TI  - Factors associated with tuberculosis treatment default among HIV-infected tuberculosis patients in Thailand.
AB  - Ensuring completion of tuberculosis (TB) treatment remains a major public health problem. In HIV-infected patients, TB is the most common severe opportunistic infection. Few studies have evaluated risk factors for TB treatment default in HIV-infected patients. We conducted a prospective, observational study of HIV-infected TB patients in Thailand. Patients underwent standardised evaluations at the beginning of TB treatment, at the end of the intensive phase and at the end of TB treatment. TB treatment outcomes were assessed according to WHO guidelines. The analysis was limited to patients who defaulted or who had treatment success. Of the 554 patients analysed, 61 (11%) defaulted. In multivariate analysis, factors associated with TB treatment default included incarceration history [adjusted odds ratio (AOR) 2.0, 95% CI 1.1-3.7), smoking (AOR 2.3, 95% CI 1.3-4.1) and having a symptom complaint score >15 (AOR 3.4, 95% CI 1.4-8.0); one marker of wealth, namely owning a refrigerator, was protective (AOR 0.4, 95% CI 0.2-0.8). Default during TB treatment was a significant problem in HIV-infected patients. Reducing default may require enhancing services for patients with a history of incarceration or smoking and designing patient-centred systems to address poverty and patient wellness.

UI  - 18926047
TI  - Female-male differences at various clinical steps of tuberculosis management in rural Bangladesh.
AB  - A registry data-based study of 3,600 patients systematically drawn from out-patient clinic, laboratory and tuberculosis (TB) treatment registers (1200 from each) examined female-male differences at various clinical steps of TB management and compared selective indicators with published results. Female-to-male ratios (FMR) declined at the following clinical steps: respiratory patients seeking out-patient care (0.81), TB suspects submitting sputum for testing (0.52) and smear-positive test results (0.38), but the decline ceased at treatment initiation (0.41). Compared to 1997, the FMR in 2000 had decreased for out-patient clinics and sputum submission for testing, but had increased for smear-positive test results and treatment initiation. More female than male patients who underwent treatment achieved cure (93% vs. 89%). Lower female representation at the different clinical steps of TB management persists.

UI  - 18926039
TI  - Interferon-gamma release assays during follow-up of tuberculin skin test-positive contacts.
AB  - This study showed a highly variable pattern of IGRA responses over time and suggests limited value for their use during follow-up of latently infected individuals. However, the significance of different kinetic patterns observed among subjects with intermediate initial IGRA results warrants further study.

UI  - 18852993
TI  - Tuberculosis of the ear, a professional disease?
AB  - Tuberculosis is a rare cause of chronic suppurative otitis media and mastoiditis; the predisposing factors of this association, however, are not commonly described. There has been an alarming increase in the incidence of tuberculosis in Brazil, including tuberculous otitis media. These patients typically present multiple perforations of the tympanic membrane, an ear discharge, and progressive hearing loss. This diagnosis should be taken into account in patients that do not respond to routine therapy for fungal external otitis or bacterial otitis media. In this retrospective study, the authors describe four cases of patients with tuberculous otitis media. This sample consisted of two physicians, a chemical engineer and an underage child in whose family there were cases of active tuberculosis. Predisposing factors for tuberculous otitis were contact with family members that had tuberculosis, professional contact with patients and exposure to pathogenic microorganisms in airways.

UI  - 18846786
TI  - Perceptions of tuberculosis and treatment seeking behaviour in Ilala and Kinondoni Municipalities in Tanzania.
AB  - This study was carried out in Ilala and Kinondoni Municipalities in Tanzania to explore the perceptions of Tuberculosis (TB), and treatment seeking behaviour, among patients attending healthcare facilities. The study was conducted in four randomly selected health facilities providing directly observed treatment (DOT). Exit interviews were administered to 69 randomly selected TB patients. The mean age of the respondents was 33.2 years (range = 11-72 years). Forty-six (66.7%) of the patients had primary school education. Fifty-nine (84.1%) patients had good knowledge on the transmission of TB. Majority (75%) of the respondents were of the opinion that the incidence of TB was on the increase and this was mainly associated with HIV/AIDS epidemic. All respondents knew that TB was a curable disease if one complies with the treatment. Sixty-four (60%) respondents had good knowledge on the correct duration of tuberculosis treatment. The median duration before seeking treatment from a health facility was 1.5 months. The majority of the patients 47 (68%) visited public health facilities for treatment as their first action. Overall, 83.8% (57/68) respondents said females comply better with treatment than male patients. The majority of the respondents lived within a walking distance to a healthcare facility. Only 18.8% (13/69) had to spend an average of US$ 0.2-0.3 as travel costs to the healthcare facility. Most of the respondents (57.8%) said they were well attended by service providers. Half (21/42) and 59.3% (16/27) of the males and females, respectively, mentioned good patient-service provider relationship as an important reason for satisfaction of the service (chi2 = 0.57, df = 1, P > 0.005). Twenty-nine (42%) of respondents were of the opinion that female TB patients conformed better to treatment than males and a similar number thought that both of them equally conformed to treatment. Findings from this study indicate that a large population in urban settings are aware that health facilities play a major role in TB treatment. In conclusion, there is a need to further explore how this information could potentially be used to enhance early seeking of appropriate services among TB patients in the era of rapid urbanization. Strategies in the control of TB and other diseases should focus on advocacy in seeking appropriate care.

UI  - 18845038
TI  - Cervical lymphadenopathy: scrofula revisited.
AB  - Tubercular cervical lymphadenitis can readily be diagnosed by fine needle aspiration cytology, a simple and cost-effective test. The disease can be cured completely by a short course of anti-tubercular chemotherapy, without surgical intervention.

UI  - 18820380
TI  - A profile of bacteriologically confirmed pulmonary tuberculosis in children.
AB  - Children with tuberculosis present with fever and cough of insidious onset. Lymphadenopathy is a common feature even in children with pulmonary TB. A significant proportion of children have normal chest X-rays despite positive gastric aspirate cultures. Drug resistance rates in children mirror the pattern seen in adults in this geographic area.

UI  - 18812045
TI  - Bodyweight gain to predict treatment outcome in patients with pulmonary tuberculosis in Peru.
AB  - BWG < or = 5% at the end of treatment, high bacterial load and lack of sputum conversion correlate with unsuccessful treatment outcome in this setting. New discriminative cut-offs for BWG are proposed.

UI  - 18787216
TI  - Early and extended early bactericidal activity of linezolid in pulmonary tuberculosis.
AB  - Linezolid has modest early bactericidal activity against rapidly dividing tubercle bacilli in patients with cavitary pulmonary tuberculosis during the first 2 days of administration, but little extended early bactericidal activity. Clinical trial registered with www.clinicaltrials.gov (NCT00396084).

UI  - 18778540
TI  - [Cosyntropin test in severe active tuberculosis].
AB  - Adrenal insufficiency is frequent in severe active tuberculosis. The efficacy and security of supplemental steroid treatment in severe active tuberculosis should be established by a randomized clinical trial.

UI  - 18770037
TI  - Crohn's disease in India: a multicenter study from a country where tuberculosis is endemic.
AB  - Although Crohn's disease is thought to be rare and intestinal tuberculosis common in India, Crohn's disease is being reported more often. However, there is a lack of systematic study on Crohn's disease from India. In this analysis of data from three inflammatory bowel disease clinics (two in northern India and one in eastern India), criteria for Crohn's disease were applied retrospectively: (1) World Health Organization (WHO) criteria; or (2) compatible histology (European Crohn's and Colitis Organization) or failure of response to 4-8 weeks of anti-tuberculosis therapy (Asia-Pacific guidelines); or (3) compatible macroscopic, radiologic, colonoscopic features (European Crohn's and Colitis Organization). Others were classified as probable Crohn's disease. The Montreal classification was used for disease phenotype. Age at onset and duration of symptoms (182 patients, 117 male) were 34.5 (+/-13.6; 7-73) years and 3.0 (+/-5.8; 0.1-36) years, respectively. Diarrhea (68%), abdominal pain (62%), and weight loss (57%) were common. The common intestinal complications were occult (27%) and overt (40%) gastrointestinal bleeding and obstruction (28%). There were 141 (78%) and 41 (22%) with definite and probable Crohn's disease respectively. Of 147 (81%) available histopathology specimens (endoscopic biopsy in 110; 75%), 31 (21%) had granuloma. Seventy-one out of 166 (43%) had received anti-tuberculosis therapy in the past. Results from the Montreal classification were as follows: age at onset, A1:A2:A3 6%:64%:30%; location of disease, L1:L2:L3:L4 32%:41%:23%:4%, and disease behavior, B1:B2:B3 51%:24%:25%. Twenty-six (15%) and 31 (17%) patients had upper gastrointestinal and perianal modifiers. The drugs used were: aminosalicylates (128, 70%), steroids (76, 42%), azathioprine (53, 29%), methotrexate (4, 2%), and salazopyrine (14, 8%). Sixty-six (36%) patients underwent surgical treatment. We concluded that the phenotype of Crohn's disease in India is very similar to that described in other regions of Asia and the West, except for a delay in diagnosis and a more complicated disease at diagnosis.

UI  - 18765687
TI  - Repeated administration of high-dose intermittent rifapentine reduces rifapentine and moxifloxacin plasma concentrations.
AB  - Moxifloxacin- and rifapentine-based regimens are under investigation for the treatment of tuberculosis. However, rifapentine may induce enzymes that metabolize moxifloxacin, resulting in decreased moxifloxacin concentrations. In this phase I, two-period, sequential-design study, 13 subjects received 400 mg moxifloxacin daily for 4 days followed by daily moxifloxacin coadministered with 900 mg rifapentine thrice weekly. Pharmacokinetic analyses were performed after the 4th and 19th doses of moxifloxacin and after the 1st and 7th doses of rifapentine. For moxifloxacin, the mean area under the concentration-time curve from 0 to 24 h (AUC(0-24)) decreased by 17.2% (P = 0.0006) when the drug was coadministered with rifapentine, and the mean half-life (t(1/2)) decreased from 11.1 to 8.9 h (P = 0.0033). For rifapentine, the mean AUC(0-48) after seven thrice-weekly doses decreased by 20.3% (P = 0.0035) compared to the AUC(0-48) after the first dose, and the mean t(1/2) decreased from 18.5 to 14.8 h (P = 0.0004). The AUC(0-48) for the 25-desacetyl-rifapentine metabolite diminished 21%. Two days after completing the study drugs, one subject developed a fever and hepatitis, and another developed a flu-like illness with a rash. In conclusion, rifapentine modestly reduced moxifloxacin concentrations. Changes consistent with rifapentine autoinduction of metabolism were seen. Adverse reactions in two subjects may have represented rifamycin hypersensitivity syndrome, although some features were atypical.

UI  - 18763289
TI  - Colonoscopy evaluation after short-term anti-tuberculosis treatment in nonspecific ulcers on the ileocecal area.
AB  - Follow-up colonoscopy shows a healing stage ulcer or scarring change without an active ulcer with just 2 mo to 3 mo of medication in patients with tuberculous colitis. Colonoscopy follow-up after short term anti-tuberculosis trial in patients with nonspecific ulcers on the ileocecal area is valuable in making early differential diagnosis of tuberculous colitis.

UI  - 18751690
TI  - Population pharmacokinetics of nevirapine in combination with rifampicin-based short course chemotherapy in HIV- and tuberculosis-infected South African patients.
AB  - The developed model adequately describes nevirapine population pharmacokinetics in a South African population when taken with/and in the absence of rifampicin treatment. The simulations suggest that an increased dose of 300 mg twice daily would achieve adequate nevirapine concentrations in most patients during rifampicin-containing treatment for tuberculosis.

UI  - 18728241
TI  - Pharmacokinetics of efavirenz when co-administered with rifampin in TB/HIV co-infected patients: pharmacogenetic effect of CYP2B6 variation.
AB  - The goal of this study was to determine the effect of CYP2B6 genetic variation on the steady-state pharmacokinetics of efavirenz (600 mg/d) in TB/HIV co-infected patients receiving concomitant rifampin, a potent CYP inducer. In the 26 patients studied, CYP2B6 c.516GG, GT, and TT genotype frequencies were 0.27, 0.50, and 0.23, respectively. Mean plasma efavirenz area under the curve was significantly higher in patients with CYP2B6 c.516TT than in those with GT (107 vs 27.6 microg x h/mL, P< .0001) or GG genotype (107 vs 23.0 microg x h/mL, P< .0001). Apparent oral clearance (CL/F) was significantly lower in patients with CYP2B6 c.516TT than in those with GT genotype (2.1 vs 8.4 mL/min/kg, P<0.0001) and GG genotype (2.1 vs 9.9 mL/min/kg, P< .0001). No differences in efavirenz exposure or CL/F existed between patients with CYP2B6 c.516GT and GG genotypes. Our results indicate that CYP2B6 c.516TT genotype can be used to identify efavirenz poor metabolizers in patients co-treated with rifampin.

UI  - 18720535
TI  - Prevention of hepatotoxicity due to anti tuberculosis treatment: a novel integrative approach.
AB  - The herbal formulation prevented hepatotoxicity significantly and improved the disease outcome as well as patient compliance without any toxicity or side effects.

UI  - 18713511
TI  - Pyrazinamide serum levels in childhood tuberculosis.
AB  - Pyrazinamide (PZA) is one of the first-line drugs in anti-tuberculosis treatment. In the present study, PZA serum levels in 34 children aged 1 to 14 years were measured either after oral application of PZA alone or after combination therapy with isoniazid and rifampicin. Serum levels did not differ statistically with age, in PZA monotherapy or in combination therapy. With a dosage of 30 mg/kg PZA, efficient serum levels were reached. Because PZA is distributed uniformly in the body, serum levels are related to body weight, and a dose of 30 mg/kg bodyweight is appropriate in children.

UI  - 18711814
TI  - [The specific features of bacillary excretion and drug sensitivity in Mycobacterium tuberculosis in patients with recurrent pulmonary tuberculosis].
AB  - Data on 485 patients with recurrent pulmonary tuberculosis were studied. At the beginning of the study, all the patients underwent a triple sputum smear test and sputum was cultured in 338 cases. Among persons with a negative smear, sputum inoculation yielded Mycobacterium tuberculosis (MBT) in 50%. By taking into account these observations, bacillary excretion was detected in 72.2%. It was established most frequently by both methods (42%), slightly less frequently by the smear test (38%) and inoculation (20%). Drug resistance in MBT was revealed almost equally frequently in bacillary recurrences in patients with positive and negative sputum smear tests (68 and 62.3%, respectively). The bulk of the strains obtained were found to be polyresistant as well as quite often multiresistant. In the group of patients who had received chemotherapy by the WHO standards at primary detection of tuberculosis, polyresistance and multiresistance were encountered significantly more frequently in those who had been treated in previous years. The resistance of MBT to various drugs was also studied. Recommendations are given on the basis of the results of the study.

UI  - 18709966
TI  - Epidemiological survey of hyperuricemia as an adverse reaction to antituberculous therapy with pyrazinamide.
AB  - There were 172 men and 54 women with an average age of 59.5 years and an average body mass index of 19.8 kg/m2. The average serum uric acid concentration before pyrazinamide treatment was 4.73 +/- 1.78 mg/dl, while the average uric acid level after pyrazinamide treatment was 10.63 +/- 2.67 mg/dl, which was significantly higher than the pretreatment level (p<0.0001). During treatment, hyperuricemia (Serum uric acid > or = 8 mg/dl) was reported in 84.5% of patients and arthralgia developed in 4.42%. Although the therapy instituted in 51 patients (22.57%) had to be interrupted or discontinued due to liver dysfunction and skin rashes, which were probably caused by isoniazid and rifampicin, no patient ceased taking pyrazinamide due to an increase of uric acid. Drugs for uric acid control were administered to 21 patients (9.29%). Pyrazinamide is an important agent for intensive short-term antituberculous therapy. Hyperuricemia due to this drug can be managed by observation and does not require interruption of administration.

UI  - 18672531
TI  - Pharmacokinetics and 48-week efficacy of nevirapine: 400 mg versus 600 mg per day in HIV-tuberculosis coinfection receiving rifampicin.
AB  - In rifampicin-treated patients, 200 mg NVP OD lead-in led to a significant short-term suboptimal NVP C12 level, while NVP 400 mg lead-in then 600 mg/day was associated with a high rate of NVP hypersensitivity. Forty-eight week efficacy was comparable. Thus, NVP 600 mg/day in rifampicin-treated patients is not recommended.

UI  - 18671475
TI  - Concomitant use of nonnucleoside analogue reverse transcriptase inhibitors and rifampicin in TB/HIV type 1-coinfected patients.
AB  - Pharmacokinetic interactions between rifampicin and nonnucleoside analogue reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs) pose challenges in the treatment of TB/HIV coinfection. We describe NNRTI plasma concentrations (PC) and treatment outcomes in TB/HIV coinfected patients receiving rifampicin and NNRTIs concomitantly. Single center prospective data were collected on all TB/HIV-coinfected patients who received concomitant NNRTI and rifampicin between 2001 and 2005. Of 103 TB/HIV coinfected patients, 26 received concomitant rifampicin with efavirenz (EFV) and 17 with nevirapine (NVP). NNRTIs were commenced after rifampicin in 18/26 (69%) and 7/17 (41%) subjects treated with EFV and NVP, respectively. Of these 88% completed antituberculosis therapy. There were two (5%) deaths, both due to lymphoproliferative malignancy. Three (7%) patients transferred care or discontinued therapy. Of subjects 83% had normal liver function tests (LFTs) and 11% had Grade 1-2 and 6% Grade 3-4 LFT abnormalities during concomitant therapy. PCs were measured in 31 patients. The first PCs were within the therapeutic range in 5/7 on NVP 200 mg bd, 2/4 on NVP 300 mg bd, 3/7 EFV 600 mg od, and 7/13 on EFV 800 mg od. PCs were subtherapeutic in 4/11 (36%) and 3/20 (20%) subjects on NVP and EFV, respectively. No virological rebounds were observed. Of subjects receiving concomitant NVP or EFV with rifampicin, 64% and 80%, respectively, had therapeutic NNRTI PCs. Subtherapeutic PCs were not associated with virological failure. Good clinical outcomes and a low incidence of hepatotoxicity were observed.

UI  - 18638392
TI  - Viral hepatitis and HIV-associated tuberculosis: risk factors and TB treatment outcomes in Thailand.
AB  - Among HIV-infected TB patients living in Thailand, markers of viral hepatitis infection, particularly hepatitis C virus infection, were common and strongly associated with known behavioral risk factors. Viral hepatitis infection markers were not strongly associated with death or the development of clinical hepatitis during TB treatment.

UI  - 18564695
TI  - Treatment-seeking behaviors and improvement in adherence to treatment regimen of tuberculosis patients using intensive triad-model program, Thailand.
AB  - The aims of this study were to determine tuberculosis patients' treatment-seeking behaviors, to describe knowledge of TB among TB patients, how that knowledge affected their treatment-seeking behaviors, and to develop an appropriate model to strengthen the existing DOTS program. A cross-sectional study was conducted in all government TB clinics in Samut Prakan Province, Thailand during November 2005-May 2006. The triad model, which emphasizes the role of a triad of persons (the healthcare provider, the TB patient, and his/her treatment supporter), can improve patient adherence to TB treatment regimen. The results showed that only about a quarter (27.7%) of TB patients chose the hospitals with TB clinic for first treatment, while others chose alternative healthcare modes, including self-care and purchasing drugs from drugstores. The rate of successful treatment was higher for the experimental group (96.0%) than the control group (84.9%) (p = 0.057). The confirmed cure rate was also significantly higher in the experimental group (95.3% vs 78.9%, p = 0.02). The program could be utilized to strengthen the existing DOTS program.

UI  - 18544214
TI  - Cultural epidemiology of TB with reference to gender in Bangladesh, India and Malawi.
AB  - Cross-site analysis of these studies has identified features of TB that influence the burden of disease and are likely to affect timely help seeking and adherence to treatment. Health systems benefit from sex-disaggregated epidemiological data complemented by cultural epidemiological study, which together clarify the role of gender and contribute to the knowledge base for TB control at various levels.

UI  - 18541933
TI  - Randomized controlled trial of DOTS versus conventional regime for treatment of ileocecal and colonic tuberculosis.
AB  - There is limited information regarding the efficacy of 'directly observed treatment short course' (DOTS) in the treatment of intestinal tuberculosis. We randomized patients with ileocecal or colonic tuberculosis to receive daily tuberculosis chemotherapy (Group A) or DOTS (Group B). Patients received isoniazid, rifampicin, pyrazinamide and ethambutol daily for two months in group A and thrice weekly for 2 months in group B, followed by isoniazid and rifampicin daily for 7 months in group A and thrice weekly for 4 months in group B. Patients were followed up at 2 and 4 weeks and monthly thereafter until the end of treatment. Follow up colonoscopy was done at 2 and 6 months after starting treatment. The improvement in clinical symptoms was not different between Groups A (24) and B (23) at 2 and 6 months. Mean increase in weight was 5.1 (0.5) Kg and 5.7 (0.6) Kg at 2 months and 7.1 (1.7) Kg and 6.9 (1.9) Kg at 6 months in Group A and B, respectively. Complete healing of ulceration was noted in 75% of Group A patients and 79% of Group B patients at 2 months and in all patients in both groups at 6 months. We conclude that DOTS and daily chemotherapy are equally effective for treating ileocecal and colonic tuberculosis.

UI  - 18532890
TI  - Outcomes of a standardized triple-drug regimen for the treatment of nontuberculous mycobacterial pulmonary infection.
AB  - The treatment of fibrocavitatory pulmonary infection due to Mycobacterium avium complex and Mycobacterium malmoense poses a challenge. This study assessed microbial, inflammatory, radiographic, and clinical outcomes for a standardized 24-month triple-drug regime. Following treatment completion, all patients had fewer symptoms, experienced a reduction in systemic inflammation, and had negative sputum mycobacterial culture results.

UI  - 18516898
TI  - [Relapse rate of pulmonary tuberculosis within two years following completion of twice weekly intermittent chemotherapy].
AB  - As regards relapse rate, this 2HRZE/4H2R2 regimen is effective and useful for the expansion of DOT, and it should be expanded nationally in Japan.

UI  - 18505852
TI  - Early bactericidal activity and pharmacokinetics of the diarylquinoline TMC207 in treatment of pulmonary tuberculosis.
AB  - Tibotec Medicinal Compound 207 (TMC207) is a novel diarylquinoline with a unique mode of action that targets mycobacterial ATP synthase. TMC207 exhibits high in vitro activity against mycobacterial strains either susceptible or resistant to all first-line and many second-line drugs, including fluoroquinolones, and has shown exceptional in vivo activity against several mycobacterial species in different animal models. In this early bactericidal activity study, 75 treatment-nave patients with smear-positive pulmonary tuberculosis were randomized to once-daily oral TMC207 (25 mg, 100 mg, or 400 mg), 600 mg rifampin (RIF), or 300 mg isoniazid (INH) for 7 days. Sixteen-hour overnight sputum collected at baseline and on each treatment day was plated in serial dilutions on selective agar plates. The bactericidal activity was expressed as the log(10) decrease in CFU/ml sputum/day. Pharmacokinetic sampling was performed on day 7 of TMC207 administration up to 24 h postdose. The decreases in log(10) CFU counts (+/- standard deviation) from baseline to day 7 were 0.04 +/- 0.46 for 25 mg TMC207 (n = 14), 0.26 +/- 0.64 for 100 mg TMC207 (n = 14), 0.77 +/- 0.58 for 400 mg TMC207 (n = 14), 1.88 +/- 0.74 for INH (n = 11), and 1.70 +/- 0.71 for RIF (n = 14). Significant bactericidal activity of 400 mg TMC207 was observed from day 4 onward and was similar in magnitude to those of INH and RIF over the same period. The pharmacokinetics of TMC207 were linear across the dose range. In summary, TMC207 demonstrated bactericidal activity with a delayed onset and was well tolerated, and no study drug-related serious adverse events occurred.

UI  - 18501675
TI  - Impact of socio-psychological factors on treatment adherence of TB patients in Russia.
AB  - The aim of this study was to assess the impact of social and psychological factors on treatment adherence of patients with tuberculosis (TB). To this end a cross-sectional questionnaire-based study was conducted among TB patients in four Russian regions (Orel, Vladimir, Belgorod oblasts, and Republic of Mari-El) from 01/04/2004 to 31/03/2005. A total of 87 non-adherent and 1302 adherent patients were interviewed. Compared to adherents, non-adherents were significantly more likely to be male, unemployed, have a technical college education, have a history of imprisonment, have a negative emotional status, consider themselves "not sick", not know the treatment period, have negative feelings and distrust for medical staff, not believe they will fully recover, and not want to continue treatment. Patients at highest risk for non-adherence should be identified at the start of treatment, and offered the services of a psychologist. A case management and patient-centered approach should be applied.

UI  - 18442788
TI  - Effect of oral immunomodulator Dzherelo in TB/HIV co-infected patients receiving anti-tuberculosis therapy under DOTS.
AB  - Open-label, phase II clinical trial was conducted in 40 HIV/TB dually infected patients to evaluate the effect of oral immunomodulator Dzherelo on immune and viral parameters. The anti-retroviral therapy nave patients were randomized into two equal groups to be given anti-tuberculosis therapy (ATT) under DOTS. The arm A, which served as a control, received Isoniazid (H); Rimfapicin (R); Pyrazinamide (Z); Streptomycin (S); and Ethambutol (E), and arm B received 50 drops of Dzherelo twice per day in addition to the daily dose of HRZSE. After 2months the total CD3+ lymphocytes increased from 728 to 921cells/microl (P=0.025) in Dzherelo recipients, whereas in the control group they decreased from 651 to 585 cells (P=0.25). The population of CD4 T-cells expanded in Dzherelo arm (174 to 283; P=0.00003) but declined in ATT group (182 to 174; P=0.34). The CD8 cells fluctuated slightly upward in both groups: 159>180 (P=0.17) and 159>183 (P=0.13). The ratio between CD4/CD8 cells deteriorated in arm A (1.213>0.943; P=0.002) but improved in arm B (1.244>1.536; P=0.007). The percent of CD3+HLA-DR+ activated lymphocytes had fallen in ATT group (22.6>20.5; P=0.004), but rose in Dzherelo recipients (21.5>30.5; P=0.0001). The changes in CD20+ B lymphocytes were insignificant in both arms (28.4%>28.6%; P=0.4) and (27.2%>26.7%; P=0.38). No difference was seen in the amount of CD3-CD16+CD56+ natural killer (NK) cells in arm A (21.3%>22.6%; P=0.1), while in Dzherelo recipients they declined significantly (19.9%>14.5%; P=0.0026). The viral load, measured by plasma RNA-PCR, decreased in Dzherelo group (2174>1558; P=0.002), but increased in ATT group (1907>2076 copies/ml; P=0.03). Dzherelo has a favorable effect on the immune status and viral burden in HIV/TB patients when given as the immunomodulating adjunct to ATT.

UI  - 18421904
TI  - [Use of molecular-biological microchip TB-BIOCHIP-2 for detecting of Mycobacterium tuberculosis with multidrug resistance to fluoroquinolones in patients with new detected and chronic tuberculosis].
AB  - At present the left-handed "respiratory" quinolones such as moxifloxacin and levofloxacin are the most promising drugs for therapy of multidrug resistant tuberculosis (MDR). Fast and specific diagnostics of sensitivity of M. tuberculosis (MBT) with MDR to this group of drugs is required for timely prescription of adequate chemotherapy and its correction in case of MBT resistance to fluoroquinolones. A new generation of biological microchips - TB-BIOCHIP-2 makes possible to detect 9 mutation types in quinolones resistant determination region (QRDR) of gene. About 800 samples from 169 patients in Antituberculosis center were studied. In patients with new detected tuberculosis 23.5% MBT resistant to isoniazid and rifampicin (MDR) and sensitive to fluoroquinolones were revealed. In patients with chronic tuberculosis 65.5% MBT-MDR were revealed. Our results were confirmed with detecting ofloxacin resistance on Lowenstein - Jensen. In addition efficiency of TB-BIOCHIP-2 to control drug testing sensitivity of MBT-MDR on fluoroquinolones was confirmed.

UI  - 18419893
TI  - High levels of resistance to second-line anti-tuberculosis drugs among prisoners with pulmonary tuberculosis in Georgia.
AB  - Our findings reveal a serious threat to the TB control efforts in the study population.

UI  - 18419890
TI  - Decentralising tuberculosis services from county tuberculosis dispensaries to township hospitals in China: an intervention study.
AB  - The decentralised model showed better patient access and quality of care. The study demonstrated that decentralising TB services to the township level, especially vital in China's poorly accessible areas, was feasible.

UI  - 18419889
TI  - An ethnographic study of barriers to and enabling factors for tuberculosis treatment adherence in Timor Leste.
AB  - Local cultural practices and knowledge as well as socio-economic factors contribute to less than optimal adherence to TB treatment. This study has assisted Timor Leste's NTP in modifying its DOTS expansion strategies to overcome barriers to treatment completion.

UI  - 18419888
TI  - City tuberculosis control coordinators' perspectives of patient adherence to DOT in So Paulo State, Brazil, 2005.
AB  - The main aspects mentioned by city TB control coordinators regarding patient adherence to treatment and to DOT in So Paulo are improvements in communications, relationships based on trust, a humane approach and including the patients in the decision-making process concerning their health.

UI  - 18390450
TI  - Clinical evaluation and monitoring of adverse effects for fixed multidose combination against single drug therapy in pulmonary tuberculosis patients.
AB  - To evaluate the clinical and therapeutic value of 4 and 3 drug fixed dose combinations verses single drug formulations to treat pulmonary tuberculosis patients. The occurrence of adverse effects was also monitored. A total of 293 patients having sputum positive pulmonary tuberculosis were enrolled (Male: 187 and Female: 106). Patients with renal, hepatic, diabetic, cardiac problem and pregnancy were excluded from study. Patients were randomly selected into three groups (A, B, C). Group A and B were given FDCs and group C was given single drug formulations. All patients received 4 drugs in the intensive phase and 3 drugs in the continuation phase. Group A showed the highest percentage of patients who achieved sputum conversion (98.9%). The numbers of days taken to achieve sputum conversion on average were the least for Group B (32 days). When comparing the adverse effects, the patients of Group C suffered the most, with 22 patients who vomited repeatedly, 3 complaining of itching, 2 with Jaundice and 1 dead. There was no significant difference in the efficacy among the three treatment regimens. However the side effects observed in all three groups strongly indicate that FDCs are safer for treating TB patients. There were no side effects in the continuation phase.

UI  - 18339032
TI  - Effect of vitamin E and selenium supplementation on oxidative stress status in pulmonary tuberculosis patients.
AB  - A 2-month intervention with vitamin E and selenium supplementation reduces oxidative stress and enhances total antioxidant status in patients with pulmonary TB treated with standard chemotherapy.

UI  - 18320119
TI  - [Effectiveness of prophylaxis against tuberculosis in patients infected with HIV].
AB  - The prophylaxis against tuberculosis was effective in HIV positive patients, independently of the immune status, viral load, and highly effective antiretroviral therapy.

UI  - 18318169
TI  - [The effectiveness of ascorbic acid and emoxipin in treatment of infiltrative pulmonary tuberculosis].
AB  - The aim of this prospective placebo-controlled randomized study was to assess the effectiveness of ascorbic acid or emoxipin in the regimen of the therapy of infiltrative pulmonary tuberculosis. Emoxipin vs. ascorbic acid favored the eradication of tuberculosis mycobacteria. Both preparations decreased the blood level of the contra-inflammatory cytokine tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), shortened time to the closure of degeneration cavities in tubercular infiltrations, decreased the risk of the development of destructive forms, and lowered the need for surgical interventions for infiltrative pulmonary tuberculosis.

UI  - 18279043
TI  - Nutritional status of persons with HIV infection, persons with HIV infection and tuberculosis, and HIV-negative individuals from southern India.
AB  - We compared the nutritional status of individuals with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection alone, individuals with HIV infection and tuberculosis (after completion of antituberculosis treatment), and HIV-negative individuals and found that malnutrition, anemia, and hypoalbuminemia were most pronounced among HIV-positive patients with tuberculosis. Weight loss was associated with loss of fat in female patients and with loss of body cell mass in male patients.

UI  - 18230250
TI  - Is there an increased risk of TB relapse in patients treated with fixed-dose combination drugs in Indonesia?
AB  - This is the first documented long-term follow-up study of patients treated with four-drug FDCs. There is an indication that treatment of new sputum smear-positive TB patients with FDCs provides an increased risk of relapse compared to treatment with loose drugs. The long-term results of treatment with FDCs should be carefully evaluated in other settings.

UI  - 18230248
TI  - Successful use of rifampicin for Hispanic foreign-born patients with latent tuberculosis infection.
AB  - With high completion rates and minimal side effects, 4R is a favorable LTBI treatment regimen for Hispanic and other foreign-born patients.

UI  - 18230245
TI  - A randomised controlled trial of high-dose isoniazid adjuvant therapy for multidrug-resistant tuberculosis.
AB  - In low-resource scenarios where a standardised therapeutic protocol is used for MDR-TB, the protocol can be significantly improved by including high-dose INH as an adjuvant.

UI  - 18210717
TI  - [Considerations about the efficiency of treatment regimens with fixed Rifampicin-Isoniazid combinations in pulmonary tuberculosis].
AB  - Here are presented the results of a prospective, randomized study regarding the efficiency of regimens with fixed drug combination Rifampicin-Isoniazide manufactured by Antibiotics S.A. of Iasi in comparison with single drugs routinely used in treatment of patients with pulmonary tuberculosis. Newly diagnosed (confirmed by smear and culture) pulmonary tuberculosis patients were selected, and those who accepted to be included in the study, were admitted to the National Institute of Pneumology "Marius Nasta" between August 2001 and September 2002. At the time of admission, they were randomized into two groups: 20 patients received fixed drug combination RMP300 HIN150, and 18 patients received RMP and HIN in single drug tablets (2 patients were excluded). The follow-up of the patients was for one year from the date of enclosure. The smear conversion rate was 83,3% for the patients using single drug tablets, and 70% for those using fixed drug combination, motivated with some more severe TB patterns. The success rate was 100% for all TB patients. Although the present study was done for few patients, we can say that it demonstrated the same efficiency of fixed drug combination produced in Romania, with the single drug tablets, and it suggests a better compliance to treatment with a lower price.

UI  - 18173885
TI  - Genotypic diversity of extensively drug-resistant tuberculosis (XDR-TB) in South Africa.
AB  - Acquisition of extensive drug resistance appears to be the primary mechanism driving the XDR-TB epidemic in South Africa. This urgent TB control issue has to be addressed to prevent the spread of this potentially incurable disease.

UI  - 18173884
TI  - TB surveillance in correctional institutions in Hong Kong, 1999-2005.
AB  - TB remains a significant disease in local prisons. Further strengthening of TB control programmes in prisons, especially targeting the higher risk groups, is recommended.

UI  - 18173881
TI  - The DOTS strategy for treatment of paediatric pulmonary tuberculosis in South Delhi, India.
AB  - DOTS appears to be a highly efficacious treatment strategy.

UI  - 18173879
TI  - Delay in tuberculosis diagnosis and treatment in four provinces of Argentina.
AB  - Diagnostic delay is an important problem in the areas studied, with patient delay being of most concern. Patient delay was associated with age >50 years, dependence on transport to the nearest public health service due to distance and presence of cough.

UI  - 18173878
TI  - Predictors of persistent airway stenosis in patients with endobronchial tuberculosis.
AB  - Early diagnosis and early administration of anti-tuberculosis chemotherapy before involvement of the deeper airways is important to prevent the development of unwanted sequelae of bronchostenosis.

UI  - 19441654
TI  - [Rezonizat and cycloserine in complex therapy of drug resistant tuberculosis (comparative studies)].
AB  - An open comparative investigation of the Russian drugs rezonizat and cycloserine was performed. The studies made it possible to recommend the use of rezonizat in complex therapy of patients with drug resistant tuberculosis. Higher activity and better tolerability of rezonizat vs. cycloserine was shown.

UI  - 18097109
TI  - Miliary tuberculosis in human immunodeficiency virus infected patients not on antiretroviral therapy: clinical profile and response to shortcourse chemotherapy.
AB  - Miliary TB tends to occur among HIV infected patients with severe immunosuppression. Though the initial response to short-course chemotherapy was encouraging, a high recurrence rate and mortality was observed indicating poor prognosis in HIV.

UI  - 18093254
TI  - Pyrazinamide blood concentrations in children suffering from tuberculosis: a comparative study at two doses.
AB  - The study indicates that comparable serum concentrations of pyrazinamide are attained with 25 mg kg(-1) and 15 mg kg(-1) doses in children. The elimination half-life was longer and volume of distribution greater in children than in the adult population.

UI  - 18091290
TI  - Efficacy of nurse case-managed intervention for latent tuberculosis among homeless subsamples.
AB  - Nurse case management with incentives appears to be a good foundation for increasing adherence to 6-month isoniazid treatment in a variety of homeless subgroups and, in particular, for sheltered homeless populations. However, additional social-structural and environmental strategies are needed to address those at greatest risk of nonadherence.

UI  - 18087894
TI  - Knowledge and healthcare seeking behaviour of pulmonary tuberculosis patients attending Ilala District Hospital, Tanzania.
AB  - A cross-sectional study was conducted, based on systematic sampling of consecutive patients with pulmonary tuberculosis (TB) symptoms and who attended the TB clinic for their medication at Ilala District Hospital, Tanzania. The study sample comprised of 153 people who were almost equally distributed among men and women. Three quarters (75%) of the subjects were vaccinated against TB with the majority being 40 years and younger. Half the study subjects were diagnosed to have TB between the 2nd and 4th month after their symptoms appeared. A chest X-ray was used to initiate anti-TB therapy in half the subjects. No consistency was followed in the diagnostic procedures done to confirm the diagnosis. Over half the patients (54.3%) admitted that they openly speak about their illness to others but that only one-third (33.3%) of their friends and family responded in a considerate and sympathetic manner. One-third (36.6%) of the friends and relatives became less friendly and the remaining one-third openly portrayed fear and tried to discriminate the patient even after the commencement of medications. The patients' compliance rate was 100%. The counselling received from the health personnel and the patients' own motivations to improve their health, was the main driving force in seeking treatment and taking daily medication. Discrimination against TB patients by relatives and friends is likely to hinder positive health seeking behaviour and thus impede control of this disease.

UI  - 18076553
TI  - How affordable are tuberculosis diagnosis and treatment in rural China? An analysis from community and tuberculosis patient perspectives.
AB  - The heavy financial burden (both perceived and real) on these patients is one of the main reasons that some TB patients fail to access and complete treatment. Pressure to generate revenue through current incentives in health-care financing and poor competence of health workers at the village and township levels cause delay and high expenses to TB patients and ultimately impede effective TB control in China.

UI  - 18072529
TI  - Evaluation of an intermittent six-month regimen in new pulmonary tuberculosis patients with diabetes mellitus.
AB  - Category-I regimen, recommended for all the new smear-positive patients in the Indian TB programme, is effective in the treatment of DMTB patients, despite poor control of diabetes.

UI  - 18070980
TI  - Population pharmacokinetics of levofloxacin, gatifloxacin, and moxifloxacin in adults with pulmonary tuberculosis.
AB  - The objective of this study was to determine the population pharmacokinetic parameters of levofloxacin, gatifloxacin, and moxifloxacin following multiple oral doses. Twenty-nine patients with tuberculosis at the University Hospital in Vitria, Brazil, participated. Subjects received multiple doses of one drug (levofloxacin, 1,000 mg daily, or gatifloxacin or moxifloxacin, 400 mg daily) as part of a 7-day study of early bactericidal activity. Serum samples were collected over 24 h after the fifth dose and assayed using validated high-performance liquid chromatography assays. Concentration-time data were analyzed using noncompartmental, compartmental, and population methods. The three drugs were well tolerated. Levofloxacin produced the highest maximum plasma concentrations (median, 15.55 microg/ml; gatifloxacin, 4.75 microg/ml; moxifloxacin, 6.13 microg/ml), largest volume of distribution (median, 81 liters; gatifloxacin, 79 liters; moxifloxacin, 63 liters), and longest elimination half-life (median, 7.4 h; gatifloxacin, 5.0 h; moxifloxacin, 6.5 h). A one-compartment model, with or without weight as a covariate, adequately described the data. Postmodeling simulations using median population parameter estimates closely approximated the median values from the original data. Area under the concentration-time curve/MIC ratios for free drug were high. All three quinolones showed favorable pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic indices, with the most favorable results in this population being seen with levofloxacin at the comparative doses used.

UI  - 18038603
TI  - [Immunological correction in progressive pulmonary tuberculosis].
AB  - The authors used their immunological correction method to treat 154 patients with progressive pulmonary tuberculosis. Of them, 38 patients received standard antituberculosis therapy (Group 1), 39 had additionally paravasal lymphotrophic immunological correction (Group 2), and 38 took antituberculous drugs in accordance with individual regimens (Group 3), and 39 patients were treated by individual regimens during immunological correction (Group 4). After termination of the basic course of chemotherapy, clinical cure was achieved in 61.1, 76.3, 72.2, and 94.7%, respectively (p < 0.05). During the basic course, mortality was 11.1, 5.3, and 5.5% in the first three groups. By taking into account the immunological status of patients with caseous pneumonia, disseminated, and multicavernous pulmonary tuberculous lesion, immunological correction is indicated early in the basic course of therapy.

UI  - 17990463
TI  - [Clinical observation on effect of xiaoshui powder in auxiliary treatment of tuberculous remnant pleural effusion].
AB  - Xiaoshui Powder has definitely curative effect for auxiliary treatment of tuberculous remnant pleural effusion.

UI  - 17985057
TI  - Evaluation of a rapid screening test for rifampicin resistance in re-treatment tuberculosis patients in the Eastern Cape.
AB  - Rapid detection of rifampicin resistance using FASTPlaque-Response could contribute to improved management of patients at risk of MDR-TB, such as previously treated patients. However, improvement in control of specimen-related contamination is needed to ensure that a higher proportion of FASTPlaque-Response results are interpretable. Where indicated, early modification of therapy could improve patient prognosis and reduce disease transmission.

UI  - 17879915
TI  - Rifampicin reduces plasma concentrations of moxifloxacin in patients with tuberculosis.
AB  - Coadministration of moxifloxacin with intermittently administered rifampicin and isoniazid results in reduced moxifloxacin plasma concentrations, which is most likely the result of induced glucuronidation or sulphation by rifampicin. Further studies are warranted to evaluate the impact of the interaction on the outcome of TB treatment.

UI  - 17855466
TI  - HIV risk reduction in a nurse case-managed TB and HIV intervention among homeless adults.
AB  - This study evaluated a six-month nurse case-managed intervention against a standard care control program among 295 sheltered homeless adults from Los Angeles, USA. The primary aim of the intervention was encouraging latent tuberculosis infection treatment completion. The secondary aim was reducing HIV risk, the focus of this report. A longitudinal path model revealed that the intervention impacted cognitive factors of AIDS Knowledge, Perceived AIDS Risk and Self-efficacy for Condom Use, but did not impact substance use and risky sexual behaviors. The dual intervention program for HIV and TB provided promising synergistic effects by targeting risk factors common to both infections.

UI  - 17712755
TI  - The effectiveness of a 9-month regimen of isoniazid alone versus 3- and 4-month regimens of isoniazid plus rifampin for treatment of latent tuberculosis infection in children: results of an 11-year randomized study.
AB  - Short-course treatment with isoniazid and rifampin for 3-4 months is safe and seems to be superior to a 9-month course of isoniazid monotherapy.

UI  - 17705974
TI  - Low serum concentrations of anti-tuberculosis drugs and determinants of their serum levels.
AB  - Low concentrations of anti-tuberculosis drugs are common, and although the clinical significance of low concentrations remains uncertain, it may be necessary to optimise drug doses by therapeutic drug monitoring, especially in patients with an inadequate clinical response to chemotherapy.

UI  - 17705973
TI  - Ethambutol in paediatric tuberculosis: aspects of ethambutol serum concentration, efficacy and toxicity in children.
AB  - Current recommended EMB dosages in childhood tuberculosis lead to subtherapeutic serum levels. It appears to be more valid to calculate the EMB dosage on the basis of body surface rather than body weight, leading to higher dosages especially in younger children. With these dosages, therapeutic serum levels are reached in all age groups, leading to a high efficacy of anti-tuberculosis treatment without increased ocular toxicity.

UI  - 17691433
TI  - [Primary and acquired resistance to antituberculous drugs in strains of Mycobacterium tuberculosis isolated in Rwanda].
AB  - This study was undertaken within the framework of a surveillance project on the resistance of Mycobacterium tuberculosis to first-line antituberculosis drugs in four provinces of Rwanda with a high prevalence of tuberculosis (TB). The purpose was to determine the prevalence of primary and acquired resistance of M. tuberculosis to major antituberculosis drugs. A cohort of patients (n=710) with pulmonary TB documented by positive microscopic examinations of exhaustive samples was recruited at 7 treatment centers. Sputum samples were cultured on Lwenstein-Jensen and Coletsos media. Sensitivity to antituberculosis drugs was tested using a BACTEC 460 radiometric system. M. tuberculosis was isolated in 644 of the 710 patients (90.7%). A total of 296 out of 573 tested for HIV infection (51.7%) were positive. Primary resistance to one, two, three or four antituberculosis drugs was observed in 3.5%, 2.9%, 1.4% and 5.7% respectively. The prevalence of acquired resistance to antituberculosis drugs was 11.2%. Primary monoresistance to streptomycin was the most prevalent (2.3%) followed by resistance to ethambutol (1%). The combined rate of multiresistance was 11.6% with 7% involving new cases and 25.5% involving retreatment. This study showed that the rates of primary and acquired resistance to first-line antituberculosis drugs were high and that TB was associated with HIV infection. The National TB Control Program must implement measures to coordinate diagnosis and management of TB and HIV infection.

UI  - 17674470
TI  - [The effectiveness and safety of sparfloxacine in combined therapy for tuberculosis].
AB  - The effectiveness and safety of the difluoroquinolone sparflo (sparfloxacine) used in combined therapy for drug-sensitive and drug-resistant pulmonary tuberculosis were studied. Clinical trials were carried out in 60 patients with severe pulmonary tuberculosis. The more effective combinations of sparfo and other antituberculous drugs were determined. Data on the satisfactory tolerability of sparfo used in various combinations of first- and second-line agents are presented.

UI  - 17667808
TI  - Isoniazid-related hepatic failure in children: a survey of liver transplantation centers.
AB  - While INH-associated liver failure in children is rare, discontinuation at the onset of symptoms does not assure recovery. This indicates a need for increased awareness of hepatotoxicity risk, expanded biochemical monitoring for children receiving INH, and prompt withdrawal in symptomatic patients.

UI  - 17657963
TI  - [Thiopoeitins in the treatment of tuberculosis].
AB  - Drug resistance in Mycobacterium tuberculosis, adverse reactions, caused by antituberculous drugs, as well as suppressed cellular immunity are responsible for lower efficiency of treatment. To improve the results of treatment in patients with tuberculosis in the intensive phase, the authors used glutoxim, a representative of thiopoeitins. Glutoxim treatment was performed in 73 patients with pulmonary tuberculosis (a study group). A control group comprised 45 patients. The course of therapy with glutoxim, 60 mg/day, was 52 days. The study group was characterized by a rapider cessation of intoxication symptoms, the higher rates of bacterial isolation cessation, and decay cavity-closure. At the end of an intensive treatment, there was abacillarity in 64 (86.7%) patients from the study group and in 32 (71.1%) control patients; decay cavity closure was observed in 60 (88.3%) and 29 (70.8%) patients, respectively (p < 0.05).

UI  - 17637263
TI  - [A cross-sectional case study of human immunodeficiency virus and tuberculosis co-infection in mainland China].
AB  - (1) The clinical manifestations of the 241 cases were varied because of prevailing pulmonary TB. (2) The immune function was depressed with reducing CD(4) counts in most of the patients. (3) Positivity rate of examination relevant to TB was too low to help the diagnosis. (4) The mortality (15.8%) was high even with HAART and/or chemotherapy.

UI  - 17615085
TI  - Monitoring tuberculosis treatment outcome: analysis of national surveillance data from a clinical perspective.
AB  - The proportion of tuberculosis cases with a successful treatment outcome exceeded the target of 85% success rate based on the modified outcome categories. Although the tuberculosis treatment outcome criteria set by WHO/IUATLD appear to be clear, they mix measures of process and outcome. Further refinement may be necessary in low incidence high income countries, especially those with a high mortality among the elderly.

UI  - 17598458
TI  - [Glutoxim in the surgical treatment of patients with pulmonary tuberculosis].
AB  - Surgery results in the development of secondary immunodeficiency associated with inhibition of the phagocytic bactericidal systems, leading to postoperative complications. Glutoxim, a representative of thiopoietins, was used to reduce the number of postoperative complications. Twenty-nine patients with pulmonary tuberculosis received glutoxim therapy (a study group). A control group comprised 25 patients. A course of glutoxim therapy was 35 days; the daily dose was 60 mg. Postoperative complications (tuberculous pleural empyema with bronchopleural fistula, progressive tuberculosis, nonspecific pneumonias) developed in 2 (6.9%) study group patients and in 8 (32%) control ones (p < 0.05). The inclusion ofglutoxim into complex preoperative preparation and its postoperative use cause a significant reduction in postoperative complications.

UI  - 17596252
TI  - Short communication: antituberculosis drug-induced hepatotoxicity is unexpectedly low in HIV-infected pulmonary tuberculosis patients in Malawi.
AB  - The proportion of patients with antituberculosis drug-induced hepatotoxicity (ATDH) was unexpectedly low during a trial on cotrimoxazole prophylaxis in Malawian HIV-positive pulmonary tuberculosis patients. About 2% of the patients developed grade 2 or 3 hepatotoxicity during tuberculosis (TB) treatment, according to WHO definitions. Data on ATDH in sub-Saharan Africa are limited. Although the numbers are not very strong, our trial and other papers suggest that ATDH is uncommon in this region. These findings are encouraging in that hepatotoxicity may cause less problem than expected, especially in the light of combined HIV/TB treatment, where drug toxicity is a major cause of treatment interruption.

UI  - 17592656
TI  - Effects of antituberculosis treatment on self assessment, perceptual analysis and acoustic analysis of voice quality in laryngeal tuberculosis patients.
AB  - Antituberculosis treatment clearly improved the voice outcomes of laryngeal tuberculosis patients, according to self-assessment, perceptual analysis and acoustic analysis.

UI  - 17580487
TI  - [The surgical treatment of chronic tuberculous empyema of the pleura].
AB  - 333 patients with chronic tuberculous empyema were treated in the Central Military Clinical Tuberculous Hospital N 4. Among them there were 325 (97,6%) men and 8 (2,4%) women. The patients' age varied from 18 to 87 years. The main causes of empyema development were the following: the exudative pleurisy--in 179 (53,8%) cases, the complications of lung resection--in 69 (20,7%), the ineffective artificial pneumothorax--in 50 (15,0). In 34 (10,2%) patients the empyema was the result of spontaneous pneumothorax and in 1 (0,3%) patient it developed due to generalization of tuberculosis of extra-pulmonary localization. The treatment was based on extensive surgical interventions performed in patients during the stable and subacute phases of pathologic process. It allowed achieving the good results in 89,2% and satisfactory results--in 9,9% patients.

UI  - 17578786
TI  - Postpartum tuberculosis incidence and mortality among HIV-infected women and their infants in Pune, India, 2002-2005.
AB  - Among Indian HIV-infected women, we found a high incidence of postpartum TB and associated postpartum maternal and infant death. Active screening and targeted use of isoniazid preventative therapy among HIV-infected women in India should be considered to prevent postpartum maternal TB and associated mother-to-child morbidity and mortality.

UI  - 17575680
TI  - Evaluation of a non-rifampicin continuation phase (6HE) following thrice-weekly intensive phase for the treatment of new sputum positive pulmonary tuberculosis.
AB  - Newly-diagnosed Category I patients can be effectively treated with this regimen without emergence of MDR TB. It has immense potential in programmes where directly observed therapy cannot be ensured throughout, and when rifampicin is contraindicated in HIV-TB patients who require concomitant therapy with anti-retroviral

UI  - 17570000
TI  - Multidrug-resistant tuberculosis in the Czech Republic: strategy and therapeutic outcomes.
AB  - 

UI  - 17542762
TI  - Clinical evaluation of the nelfinavir-rifabutin interaction in patients with tuberculosis and human immunodeficiency virus infection.
AB  - Coadministration of rifabutin and isoniazid without dosage adjustment during twice-weekly tuberculosis therapy with nelfinavir-based antiretroviral therapy resulted in rifabutin exposures within the acceptable ranges for safety and efficacy. Therefore, this combination is an appropriate option for the simultaneous treatment of tuberculosis and HIV infection when tuberculosis therapy is given twice weekly.

UI  - 17517849
TI  - Early bactericidal activity of high-dose rifampin in patients with pulmonary tuberculosis evidenced by positive sputum smears.
AB  - We studied the early bactericidal activity of twice the standard dose of rifampin in subjects with pulmonary tuberculosis evidenced by positive smears. The observed mean 2-day activity was almost double that reported at the standard dose. Further studies are warranted to establish whether higher rifampin doses might assist in shortening tuberculosis treatment.

UI  - 17471103
TI  - Buckling collapse of the spine in childhood spinal tuberculosis.
AB  - We prospectively followed 61 children under 15 years of age at the time of diagnosis to identify the risk factors for deformity progression. The children had 63 lesions and a minimum of 15 years followup. All exhibited an increase in deformity during the active disease phase, but 26 of 63 (41%) continued to progress during the quiescent phase until the growth was complete. In 21 of those 26, there was an increase in angular kyphosis with a final deformity < 90 degrees. In the other five, the deformity resembled a buckling collapse analogous to failure of an axially loaded slender column; the deformity was more than 100 degrees and associated with facet dislocation at multiple levels. These patients' vertebral segments above the level of destruction underwent severe sagittal rotation resulting in horizontal vertebrae with vertical growth plates, which resulted in longitudinal overgrowth of the vertebral segments. Risk factors for buckling collapse included an age of less than 7 years at the time of the disease, thoracolumbar involvement, loss of more than two vertebral bodies, and presence of radiographic spine-at-risk signs. Children at risk for buckling collapse must be carefully watched and the spine stabilized to avoid a massive increase in deformity.

UI  - 17452486
TI  - Pharmacokinetics and tolerability of a higher rifampin dose versus the standard dose in pulmonary tuberculosis patients.
AB  - Rifampin is a key drug for tuberculosis (TB) treatment. The available data suggest that the currently applied 10-mg/kg of body weight dose of rifampin may be too low and that increasing the dose may shorten the treatment duration. A double-blind randomized phase II clinical trial was performed to investigate the effect of a higher dose of rifampin in terms of pharmacokinetics and tolerability. Fifty newly diagnosed adult Indonesian TB patients were randomized to receive a standard (450-mg, i.e., 10-mg/kg in Indonesian patients) or higher (600-mg) dose of rifampin in addition to other TB drugs. A full pharmacokinetic curve for rifampin, pyrazinamide, and ethambutol was recorded after 6 weeks of daily TB treatment. Tolerability was assessed during the 6-month treatment period. The geometric means of exposure to rifampin (area under the concentration-time curve from 0 to 24 h [AUC(0-24)]) were increased by 65% (P < 0.001) in the higher-dose group (79.7 mg.h/liter) compared to the standard-dose group (48.5 mg.h/liter). Maximum rifampin concentrations (C(max)) were 15.6 mg/liter versus 10.5 mg/liter (49% increase; P < 0.001). The percentage of patients for whom the rifampin C(max) was > or =8 mg/liter was 96% versus 79% (P = 0.094). The pharmacokinetics of pyrazinamide and ethambutol were similar in both groups. Mild (grade 1 or 2) hepatotoxicity was more common in the higher-dose group (46 versus 20%; P = 0.054), but no patient developed severe hepatotoxicity. Increasing the rifampin dose was associated with a more than dose-proportional increase in the mean AUC(0-24) and C(max) of rifampin without affecting the incidence of serious adverse effects. Follow-up studies are warranted to assess whether high-dose rifampin may enable shortening of TB treatment.

UI  - 17445921
TI  - Contemporary use of adjunctive corticosteroids in tuberculous pericarditis.
AB  - There is controversy concerning the effectiveness of adjunctive corticosteroids in reducing mortality in tuberculous pericarditis. To assess the impact of this controversy on contemporary clinical practice, we studied the use of adjunctive corticosteroid in 185 consecutive patients with suspected pericardial tuberculosis from 15 hospitals in Cameroon, Nigeria, and South Africa. 109 (58.9%) patients received steroids with significant variation in corticosteroid use ranging from 0% to 93.5% per centre (P<0.0001). The presence of clinical features of HIV infection was the independent predictor of the non-use of adjunctive corticosteroids (OR 0.39, 95% CI 0.20-0.75, P=0.005). We have demonstrated marked variation in the use of corticosteroids by practitioners, with nearly half of all patients not receiving this intervention. Taken together with the statistical uncertainty regarding the effectiveness of adjunctive steroids in tuberculous pericarditis, these observations probably reflect a state of genuine uncertainty or clinical equipoise among practitioners who care for patients with tuberculous pericarditis in sub-Saharan Africa. These data provide a justification for the establishment of adequately powered randomised clinical trials to assess the effectiveness of adjunctive corticosteroids in patients with tuberculous pericarditis.

UI  - 17444151
TI  - [Diagnosis and treatment of urinary bladder dysfunctions in patients with nephrotuberculosis].
AB  - A combined, including urodynamic, study was made in 129 patients with abnormal reservoir function of the urinary bladder (UB). Of them, 82 patients had nephrotuberculosis (NT). Cystoscopy was made in 93 patients, endovesical multifocal biopsy of the bladder wall-- in 23. Correction was conducted with alpha-adrenoblocker alfusozine. In NT, sensory functional disorders of UB prevail (60%). The degree of fibrous-inflammatory involvement of the bladder wall by biopsy findings and severity of urodynamic disorders do not correlate (r < 0.03). Miction recovered in 81.5% patients with NT taking alfusozine. Ileocystoplasty (n = 20) was made in treatment failure and total UB fibrosis. Long-term pathogenic action of specific infection on the neuroreceptor system of the UB may cause defects in its activity. Complex urodynamic investigations of the lower urinary tracts in NT patients identify the type of the disorder and help in making choice of pharmacological or surgical correction. Alfusoxine is a drug of choice in UB hypersensitivity.

UI  - 17434825
TI  - Analysis of fluoroquinolone resistance in clinical isolates of Mycobacterium tuberculosis from India.
AB  - Clinical isolates of Mycobacterium tuberculosis (47 ofloxacin-susceptible and 71 ofloxacin-resistant) strains obtained from individual patients from various parts of India were analyzed for gyr A mutation in quinolone resistant determining region (QRDR). Most of the mutations were seen clustered in the codons 90, 94 and 95, which is a hot spot region of QRDR. The types of mutations were correlated with the in vitro susceptibility pattern of the strains to ofloxacin. The mutations: A90V was found coded for low-level resistance (MIC <or=16 microg/ml), D94A and D94V were coded for moderate level resistance (MIC 32-64 microg/ml) and S91P, D94G and D94N were coded for high level resistance (MIC >64 microg/ml) to ofloxacin. The resistance to fluoroquinolones was observed predominantly due to gyr A mutations. There were 2 highly resistant strains that did not show any mutations for gyr A, were further analyzed for gyr B mutations and were found negative for any mutations. However, there were two novel mutations, namely R68G and L109V, which were found in sensitive strain that did not code for any change in the susceptibility pattern and require further investigation.

UI  - 17427429
TI  - [Soy-based food in a complex treatment of patients with tuberculosis].
AB  - Results of clinical and laboratoty studies on efficiency and safety of upplied soya-based food during intensive antimicobacterial treatment of patients with tuberculosis are presented in the article. Obtained results showed the necessity of introduction soya-based food in a complex treatment of this infection as it enhances processes of detoxication, positevely influences on functional and structural state of the liver, reduces cytolysis, cholestasis symptomes, mesenchymal and inflamation reactions thus increases the tolerance of antimicobacterial agents.

UI  - 17388932
TI  - Spectrum of cytomorphology of tuberculous lymphadenitis and changes during anti-tubercular treatment.
AB  - Following completion of anti-tubercular treatment a significant percentage of patients have persistent lymphadenopathy and harbour the disease. Morphological follow up of these patients is essential as they may be at increased risk of relapse.

UI  - 17367564
TI  - Tuberculosis in the head and neck: experience in India.
AB  - In addition to cervical lymphadenitis, tuberculosis in the head and neck region can produce isolated disease in the oral cavity, ear, salivary glands, temporo-mandibular joint, nose and larynx. Seventy-five per cent of our head and neck tuberculosis patients did not have pulmonary involvement. Fine needle aspiration cytology was highly effective in the diagnosis of nodal tuberculosis, but histopathological examination was required to make the diagnosis in other head and neck sites. The PPD test was not effective as a diagnostic tool. If the otolaryngologist maintains a high index of suspicion, an early diagnosis can be made with the help of simple investigations. Successful outcome depends upon appropriate chemotherapy and timely surgical intervention when necessary.

UI  - 17366449
TI  - Surgical excision versus antibiotic treatment for nontuberculous mycobacterial cervicofacial lymphadenitis in children: a multicenter, randomized, controlled trial.
AB  - Surgical excision is more effective than antibiotic treatment for children with nontuberculous mycobacterial cervicofacial lymphadenitis.

UI  - 17333787
TI  - Adjunct therapy with corticosteroids or paracentesis for treatment of tuberculous pleural effusion.
AB  - To determine the effect of adjunct therapy, we carried out a prospective cohort study on 190 patients with tuberculous pleural effusion during May 2003-April 2004. Patients were divided into 3 groups. All groups were treated with anti-tuberculosis (TB) drugs for 6 months; in group 2 (n = 46) prednisolone, 30 mg/day for 10 days, was added; group 3 (n = 78) were given paracentesis to remove fluid. Fever and constitutional symptoms disappeared faster in group 2 (P > 0.05). After 10 days, there was a significantly greater reduction in the size of pleural effusion in group 2, but after 6 months the difference was not statistically significant. We found corticosteroids and therapeutic paracentesis are not necessary in the management of TB pleural effusion.

UI  - 17332973
TI  - Isoniazid intervention for latent tuberculosis among 86 patients with rheumatologic disease administered with anti-TNFalpha.
AB  - In this study, we investigated the safety and toxicity of isoniazid (INH) intervention therapy to the patients with latent tuberculosis who were given tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha) for the treatment of their rheumatologic diseases. In this prospective clinical study, we enrolled 86 patients receiving anti-TNFalpha therapy for their rheumatologic diseases between April 2005 and September 2006. Of all the subjects, 45 had rheumatoid arthritis, 36 had ankylosing spondylitis, and 5 had psoriatic arthritis. In addition to anti-TNFalpha therapy, 60 of the 86 patients were given INH intervention for revealed latent tuberculosis. INH at a dosage of 300 mg daily was given for 9 months. Hepatotoxicity due to the INH therapy was considered when the serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and/or aspartate aminotransaminase (AST) levels showed at least threefold increase with respect to their baseline serum levels. Serum ALT and AST levels were measured by enzymatic colorimetric method in fasting peripheral blood samples at 0 (baseline), 1, 2, 3, 6, and 9 months. Of 86 patients, 47 (54.7%) were women (mean age+/-SD, 44.1 +/- 10.9 years) and 39 (45.3%) were men (38.8 +/- 10.1 years). Except five patients (8.3%), liver toxicity due to the INH therapy was not encountered among the patients, and after temporarily discontinuing the INH therapy of these five subjects, serum transaminase levels returned to the normal ranges. No hepatotoxicity was observed in the non-INH group. However, there was no statistical significance between INH-treated and non-INH-treated group (p = 0.317). In addition, none of the 86 patients developed active tuberculosis infection during the treatment period. In conclusion, for those patients who were assigned to the TNFalpha treatment for their rheumatologic disorders and carrying risk for latent tuberculosis, INH intervention therapy was found to be safe and efficacious.

UI  - 17322163
TI  - Effect of pharmacist-led patient education on adherence to tuberculosis treatment.
AB  - Patients' adherence to TB treatment improved when a pharmacist provided patient education on medication use and addressed patients' pharmaceutical care issues.

UI  - 17303529
TI  - Serial MRI to determine the effect of dexamethasone on the cerebral pathology of tuberculous meningitis: an observational study.
AB  - Dexamethasone may affect outcome from tuberculous meningitis by reducing hydrocephalus and preventing infarction. The effect may have been under-estimated because the most severe patients could not be scanned.

UI  - 17300065
TI  - [Prevalence of primary drug resistance in M. tuberculosis in four administrative areas of the North-Western Federal District of the Russian Federation].
AB  - The paper describes the results of radiometric BACTEC assay of drug susceptibility of Mycobacterium tuberculosis strains, isolated from 81 new cases of tuberculosis, to first- and second-line antituberculosis drugs in four administrative areas of the North-Western Federal District of the Russian Federation. The results of determination of drug susceptibility to the antituberculosis drugs by the absolute concentration method and the BACTEC method are also compared. Primary drug resistance has been revealed in 58.0%; multidrug resistance in 34.6%. Comparison of the results of determination of drug susceptibility by the methods revealed no significant discrepancy between both methods; however, the procedure for drug susceptibility to some drugs requires improvement.

UI  - 17298164
TI  - Determinants of treatment adherence among smear-positive pulmonary tuberculosis patients in Southern Ethiopia.
AB  - Defaulting due to treatment noncompletion in this study setting is high, and the main determinants appear to be factors related to physical access to a treatment centre. The continuation phase of treatment is the most crucial time for treatment interruption, and future interventions should take this factor into consideration.

UI  - 17209699
TI  - Latent variable assessment of outcomes in a nurse-managed intervention to increase latent tuberculosis treatment completion in homeless adults.
AB  - The culturally competent NCM program, combined with active tracking and incentives, was successful in a difficult-to-treat and highly transient population.

UI  - 17163279
TI  - Safety, efficacy and pharmacokinetics of ritonavir 400mg/saquinavir 400mg twice daily plus rifampicin combined therapy in HIV patients with tuberculosis.
AB  - Therapeutic concentrations of the studied drugs and reduction of viral load were achieved; adverse events are the main limitation of use of a ritonavir/saquinavir regimen in treatment-naive patients, but its clinical benefits were evident.

UI  - 17139825
TI  - [Results of use of surfactant in complex therapy of patients with destructive pulmonary tuberculosis].
AB  - Many years' experience in studying the surfactant system in patients with pulmonary tuberculosis has allowed recommendation of using surfactant agents in the treatment of tuberculosis. The purpose of the study was to evaluate the efficacy of surfactant-BL (Russia) as a pathogenetic agent in chemotherapy in patients with destructive pulmonary tuberculosis. The results of treatment were compared in two groups of 70 persons in each, which were matched by gender, age, the extent of a tuberculous process, and the presence of drug resistance in the causative agent, including multidrug resistance. In the study group, the patients received surfactant inhalations (8 weeks) during chemotherapy while the control patients had only chemotherapy. Drugs were chosen on an individual basis, by taking into account the pathogen's drug sensitivity and a patient's tolerability of a drug. The cumulative dose of the surfactant was 700 mg. There were no adverse reactions to the surfactant in the study group of patients. After 2-5 surfactant inhalations, the amount of sputum increase, its discharge became easier, and cough diminished. Following 4 weeks, the level of bacterial isolation decreased in 49 (70.0%) patients from the study group and in 20 (28.6%) from the control one. Two months of treatment, bacterial isolation ceased in 82.9 and 64.3% in the study and control groups, respectively. In the study group, X-ray trend in infiltration resolution and cavernous closure was significantly better in the study group. By month 4, cavernous closure was achieved in 72.9% in the study group and in 41.4% in the control one. The changes in the cellular composition of the lung in surfactant-treated and untreated patients were analyzed by the data on broncho-alveolar lavage. The findings indicate that inhaled Surfactant-BL as a two-month therapy has a pathogenetic effect and during chemotherapy improves the efficiency of treatment reduces its time in pulmonary tuberculosis.

UI  - 17131792
TI  - Repeated sputum microscopy is not essential for monitoring tuberculosis treatment response.
AB  - The yield of a second on-the-spot sputum specimen is negligible, provided that the first smear is from an overnight specimen. From the data available, it is evident that repeated follow-up smears are not essential for documenting treatment outcome.

UI  - 17131785
TI  - Extension of the intensive phase reduces unfavourable outcomes with the 8-month thioacetazone regimen.
AB  - Extension of the intensive phase considerably reduces failures and relapses with a weaker regimen in patients smear-positive at 2 months. Its effectiveness may vary with extent of initial drug resistance vs. power of the regimen.

UI  - 17117227
TI  - Experience with adjunctive corticosteroids in managing tuberculous pericarditis.
AB  - Intrapericardial and systemic corticosteroids were well tolerated but did not improve the clinical outcome. The standard six-month regimen was effective regardless of HIV infection. The potential benefits from adjunctive corticosteroids in the management of effusive tuberculous pericarditis could not be demonstrated in this three-year study.

UI  - 17085459
TI  - Effect of isoniazid prophylaxis on mortality and incidence of tuberculosis in children with HIV: randomised controlled trial.
AB  - Clinical Trials NCT00330304.

UI  - 17074278
TI  - Dexamethasone for the treatment of tuberculous meningitis in adolescents and adults.
AB  - 

UI  - 17074263
TI  - [A controlled clinical trial of long course chemotherapy regimens containing rifabutin in the treatment of multi-drug resistant pulmonary tuberculosis].
AB  - Regimens containing rifabutin or rifapentine. are very effective in sputum negative conversion rate, lesion absorption and cavity closing for the treatment of multi-drug resistant pulmonary tuberculosis, with good safety and tolerance.

UI  - 17065932
TI  - Morphological changes during growth in healed childhood spinal tuberculosis: a 15-year prospective study of 61 children treated with ambulatory chemotherapy.
AB  - Notable morphological changes occurred in both the kyphosis fusion mass and the uninvolved levels above and below the lesion in children with healed spinal tuberculosis. These changes occurred during growth, after complete healing of the disease was achieved, and were responsible for the variability in progression of the deformity during growth seen in these children. Our results imply that all children with spinal tuberculosis must be followed up regularly till the entire growth potential is completed.

UI  - 17065029
TI  - Effect of tuberculosis preventive therapy on HIV disease progression and survival in HIV-infected adults.
AB  - The number of signs or symptoms at baseline and anergic status are associated with increasing morbidity and mortality. Even though the tuberculosis preventive therapies were effective in reducing the incidence of TB for HIV-infected adults, their benefit of delaying HIV disease progression to AIDS was not observed.

UI  - 17002726
TI  - Comprehensive findings on clinical, bacteriological, histopathological and therapeutic aspects of cutaneous tuberculosis.
AB  - Clinical findings were adequate to identify major forms of cutaneous tuberculosis as evidenced by bacteriological and histopathological examination. A daily regimen of rifampicin and isoniazid for 9 months was effective in treating cutaneous tuberculosis.

UI  - 17002053
TI  - [Artificial pneumoperitoneum in the complex treatment of pulmonary tuberculosis patients isolating drug-resistant mycobacterium tuberculosis].
AB  - The pretreated patients who isolated drug-resistant Mycobacterium tuberculosis (MBT) were randomly divided into 2 groups. A multidrug-resistant MBT strain was isolated from 77 and 62.2% of patients in the study and control groups, respectively. Artificial pneumoperitoneum (PP) was applied to the study group patients (n = 95) during adequate chemotherapy. In the control group (n = 43), only chemotherapy was performed in accordance with the data of a MBT drug sensitivity test. The results were assessed by the trend in bacterial isolation cessation and decay cavity closure. In the group of patients treated with PP and chemotherapy, sputum inoculation abacillarity occurred in 72.6 and 95.8% by months 4 and 6, respectively; in the control group, this did in 48.8 and 65.1% in the same periods. Moreover, decay cavity closure was noted in 95.1% in the study group and in 63.7% in the control group following 6 months of treatment.

UI  - 17002052
TI  - [Efficiency of chemotherapy of destructive pulmonary tuberculosis, based on the results of rapid detection of drug sensitivity to isoniazid and rifampicin with the "TB-Biochip" test system].
AB  - To evaluate the efficiency of chemotherapy used in patients with pulmonary tuberculosis by the results of a rapid detection of drug resistance (DR) to isoniazid and rifampicin on a "TB-Biochip" test system versus the standard treatment with its subsequent correction by the data of determination of Mycobacterium tuberculosis (MBT) resistance by the absolute concentration technique (ACT), the study included 208 patients with pulmonary tuberculosis. The patients were divided into 2 groups: 1) those in whom MBT sensitivity to antituberculous agents was determined on a "TB-Biochip" test system to detect mutations in the MBT genes rpoB, katG, inhA, ahpC that were responsible for MBT sensitivity to rifampicin and isoniazid and by ACT; 2) those in whom this was determined by only ACT. The results of a test for MBT sensitivity to rifampicin and isoniazid were obtained within 2 days before chemotherapy in Group 1 and 2 months after chemotherapy in Group 2. In Group 1, antituberculous chemotherapy was used, by taking into account MBT sensitivity to isoniazid, rifampicin, or their combination; in Group 2, the drugs were given by the standard regimens with their subsequent correction following 2 months by the results of ACT. The timely initiation of treatment with reserve drugs in the detection of drug sensitivity in MBT could achieve higher therapeutic efficiency and in a shorter space of time.

UI  - 17002050
TI  - [Efficiency of a new standard chemotherapy regimen in the treatment of patients with recurrent pulmonary tuberculosis].
AB  - The efficiency of conventional chemotherapy regimens was comparatively studied in 75 patients with recurrent pulmonary tuberculosis. In the patients with recurrent pulmonary tuberculosis, conventional chemotherapy regimen "2b" including isoniazid, rifampicin, pyrazinamide, ethambutol, fluoroquinolone (ofloxacin, ciprofloxacin, and levofloxacin), and canamycin (amikacin) versus conventional chemotherapy regimen "2a" including isoniazid, rifampicin, pyrazinamide, ethambutol, and streptomycin could cease bacterial isolation after 3-month therapy, as evidenced by sputum microscopy (86.1 and 62.5%, respectively; p < 0.05). Cavity closure was more frequently observed after 6-month chemotherapy using regimen "2b" (76.7 and 48.0%, respectively; p < 0.05). In patients with recurrent pulmonary tuberculosis who isolated Mycobacterium tuberculosis (MBT) resistant to isoniazid and other antituberculous drugs (exclusive of rifampicin), 3-month use of conventional regimen "2b" led to cessation of bacterial isolation (as evidenced by the inoculation test) in 66.7% of cases; but this did not occur with conventional regimen "2a" in any case. Similarly, 3-month use of regimens "2b" and "2a" in patients isolating MBT resistant to rifampicin and other agents (exclusive of isoniazid) resulted in the cessation of bacterial isolation in 80 and 0% of cases, respectively. In multidrug resistance, these parameters were 11.1 and 0%, respectively.

UI  - 16956905
TI  - Efavirenz trough levels are not associated with virological failure throughout therapy with 800 mg daily and a rifampicin-containing antituberculosis regimen.
AB  - Given the lack of a demonstrated relationship between efavirenz Cmin and its efficacy in our study, a firm recommendation cannot be made to always increase the dose to 800 mg/day when concomitantly given with rifampicin, but it seems a cautious approach to maintain the same efavirenz plasma levels as with 600 mg daily without rifampicin. Patients weighing<55 kg and also black, Asian and Hispanic subjects in whom genetic-based increased efavirenz plasma levels and rates of AEs have been observed may benefit from a dose of 600 mg.

UI  - 16898366
TI  - Timely diagnosis of MDR-TB under program conditions: is rapid drug susceptibility testing sufficient?
AB  - Timely diagnosis and effective, safe treatment are essential to reduce transmission and improve outcomes for patients with tuberculosis. Aside from laboratory methods, many programmatic factors influence the overall turnaround time (TAT) in diagnosing multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB). We measured each step in the overall TAT required for MDR-TB in two of five health districts of Lima, Peru. The total TAT, from initial sputum specimen to diagnosis and appropriate treatment, was 5 months, almost twice as long as the bacteriological procedures per se. Expensive investments in laboratory technology may yield low returns unless the programmatic aspects of the diagnostic process are streamlined at the same time.

UI  - 16864110
TI  - [Clinical study of deoxyribonucleotidum for adjuvant treatment of pulmonary tuberculosis with hepatic lesion].
AB  - deoxyribouncleotidum can improve hepatic function and immunity in patients with pulmonary tuberculosis.

UI  - 16857689
TI  - Efficacy and tolerability of daily-half dose linezolid in patients with intractable multidrug-resistant tuberculosis.
AB  - Although daily-half doses of linezolid were effective in patients with intractable or extensive MDR-TB, this dosage regimen did not reduce long-term use-related side effects, such as peripheral and optic neuropathy.

UI  - 16848340
TI  - A randomized controlled trial of two treatment programs for homeless adults with latent tuberculosis infection.
AB  - Nurse case management combined with education, incentives, and tracking dramatically improves both adherence to LTBI treatment and TB knowledge in homeless persons compared to a standard approach of outreach and incentives.

UI  - 16825130
TI  - Childhood drug-resistant tuberculosis in the Western Cape Province of South Africa.
AB  - The prevalence of drug-resistant tuberculosis in this setting is increasing, reflecting ongoing transmission of drug-resistant Mycobacterium tuberculosis.

UI  - 16807259
TI  - Nontuberculous mycobacteria in bronchiectasis: Prevalence and patient characteristics.
AB  - The aim of the current study was to investigate the prevalence and clinical associations of nontuberculous mycobacteria (NTM) in a well-characterised cohort of patients with adult-onset bronchiectasis. The sputum of all patients attending a tertiary referral bronchiectasis clinic between April 2002 and August 2003 was examined for mycobacteria as part of an extensive diagnostic work-up. NTM-positive patients subsequently had further sputa examined. A modified bronchiectasis scoring system was applied to all high-resolution computed tomography (HRCT) scans from NTM-positive patients, and a matched cohort without NTM. Out of 98 patients attending the clinic, 10 had NTM in their sputum on first culture; of those, eight provided multiple positive cultures. Three patients were treated for NTM infection. A higher proportion of NTM-positive than -negative patients were subsequently diagnosed with cystic fibrosis (two out of nine versus two out of 75). On HRCT scoring, more patients in the NTM-positive group had peripheral mucus plugging than in the NTM-negative group. In the current prospective study of a large cohort of patients with bronchiectasis, 10% cultured positive for nontuberculous mycobacteria in a random clinic sputum sample. Few clinical parameters were helpful in discriminating between groups, except for a higher prevalence of previously undiagnosed cystic fibrosis and of peripheral mucus plugging on high-resolution computed tomography in the nontuberculous mycobacteria group.

UI  - 16776452
TI  - Risk factors associated with default from multidrug-resistant tuberculosis treatment, South Africa, 1999-2001.
AB  - Mortality among MDR-TB defaulters was high. Interventions to reduce default from MDR-TB treatment should center on substance abuse treatment, patient education and support and improving provider-patient relationships.

UI  - 16776446
TI  - Early and extended early bactericidal activity of levofloxacin, gatifloxacin and moxifloxacin in pulmonary tuberculosis.
AB  - Moxifloxacin, gatifloxacin, and high-dose levofloxacin have excellent EBA, only slightly less than for INH, and greater extended EBA. These drugs warrant further study in the treatment of drug-susceptible TB.

UI  - 16768170
TI  - [Twice-weekly intermittent chemotherapy during the maintenance phase of the short-course treatment for new patients with pulmonary tuberculosis].
AB  - After the successful completion of the initial intensified phase of tuberculosis chemotherapy, twice-weekly intermittent chemotherapy during the maintenance phase under the supervision by pharmacist is as effective and safe as the daily therapy, and is conveniently accepted by the patients. The pharmacy DOT with the intermittent therapy during maintenance phase adopted in this trial, should be widely introduced in Japan.

UI  - 16752023
TI  - Treatment outcome of Singapore residents with pulmonary tuberculosis in the first year after introduction of a computerised treatment surveillance module.
AB  - The findings from the TSM's first year provide a baseline for future programme evaluation.

UI  - 16709935
TI  - Lack of weight gain and relapse risk in a large tuberculosis treatment trial.
AB  - Among persons underweight at diagnosis, weight gain of 5% or less during the first 2 mo of treatment is associated with an increased relapse risk. Such high-risk patients can be easily identified, even in resource-poor settings. Additional studies are warranted to identify interventions to decrease risk of relapse in such patients.

UI  - 16675781
TI  - Moxifloxacin versus ethambutol in the first 2 months of treatment for pulmonary tuberculosis.
AB  - The addition of moxifloxacin to isoniazid, rifampin, and pyrazinamide did not affect 2-mo sputum culture status but did show increased activity at earlier time points.

UI  - 16580190
TI  - A study of loculated tuberculous pleural effusions treated with intrapleural urokinase.
AB  - Our study shows that patients with loculated tuberculous pleural effusion treated with urokinase suffered less from residual pleural thickening, as measured after six months, than those treated by simple drainage. It is therefore suggested that the administration of intrapleural urokinase is a safe and effective treatment for those patients who drain a larger quantity of pleural fluid.

UI  - 16571156
TI  - The effect of multi-vitamin/mineral supplementation on mortality during treatment of pulmonary tuberculosis: a randomised two-by-two factorial trial in Mwanza, Tanzania.
AB  - Malnutrition is common in pulmonary tuberculosis (TB), and may impair survival. The objective of this study was to assess effects of multi-vitamin/mineral (MVM) and zinc (Zn) supplementation during TB treatment on mortality. Patients diagnosed with sputum-positive pulmonary TB in Mwanza, Tanzania, were randomised, using a two-by-two factorial design, to Zn (45 mg) or placebo, and MVM (vitamins A, B, C, D, E, and selenium and copper) or placebo. Survival status was ascertained at the end of the 8-month TB treatment and supplementation period. Of 499 TB patients, 213 (43 %) had HIV. The mean weight gain at 7 months was 6.88 kg (95 % CI 6.36, 7.41). Zn and MVM combined, but neither alone (interaction, P=0.03), increased weight gain by 2.37 kg (95 % CI 0.91, 3.83), irrespective of HIV status. Survival status at 8 months was determined for 422 patients (84.6 %), of which fifty-two (12.3 %) had died. Among fifty-two deaths, there were no effects of MVM (relative risk (RR) 0.73; 95 % CI 0.43, 1.23) and Zn (RR 0.76; 95 % CI 0.46, 1.28). However, among HIV co-infected patients, marginally significant effects of both MVM (RR 0.60; 95 % CI 0.34, 1.05) and Zn (RR 0.63, 95 % CI 0.37, 1.08) were seen, and MVM and Zn combined reduced mortality (RR 0.29; 95 % CI 0.10, 0.80; interaction ratio 0.52). In conclusion, supplementation with MVM, including Zn, during treatment of pulmonary TB may reduce mortality in those co-infected with HIV. A randomised trial of the effect of the combined intervention used in this study should be conducted in a different setting to confirm the finding.

UI  - 16562708
TI  - Tuberculosis drug resistance and treatment outcomes under DOTS settings in large cities in the Philippines.
AB  - The drug resistance level was high in this population, but treatment outcome using the standard treatment regimen was not seriously affected unless the patients were MDR.

UI  - 16562706
TI  - Factors affecting patient adherence to DOTS in urban Kathmandu, Nepal.
AB  - Daily health education delivered at DOTS centres is strongly associated with improved adherence. Adherence throughout treatment needs emphasis.

UI  - 16546538
TI  - Family-member DOTS and community DOTS for tuberculosis control in Nepal: cluster-randomised controlled trial.
AB  - The family-member DOTS and community DOTS strategies can both attain international targets for treatment success under programme conditions, and thus are appropriate for the hill and mountain districts of Nepal. Both strategies might also be appropriate in other parts of the world where directly observed treatment by health workers is not feasible. Our findings lend support to adoption of this patient-responsive approach to direct observation of treatment within global tuberculosis control policy.

UI  - 16539177
TI  - [Microbiological and molecular analysis of mycobacterium tuberculosis complex strains isolated from patients with pulmonary tuberculosis].
AB  - The aim of the study was to perform microbiological and molecular analysis of Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex strains isolated from patients with pulmonary tuberculosis originating from two different regions of Silesia voivodship in 2000 year. One of 135 strains subjected to the study lacked IS6110 insertion sequence. Its belonging to Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex was confirmed by positive test for specific gyrB gene sequence. Strain resistance analysis revealed that in previously diagnosed patients resistance to streptomycin (16,2%) was more frequent than other. In contrast to never treated patients group where the prevalence of resistance to isoniazid was the most frequent (4,5%). In both group of patients resistance to rifampin or ethambutol was not detected. The multidrug resistance strains (4,6%) were detected only in the previously diagnosed group. Combined analysis of microbiological, epidemiological and molecular data are essential for creation of functional registry of patients infected with resistant Mycobacteria, giving the possibility of surveillance of drug resistant tuberculosis in populations.

UI  - 16514112
TI  - Factors related to response to intermittent treatment of Mycobacterium avium complex lung disease.
AB  - TIW therapy was less effective for MAC-PD patients with cavitary disease and a history of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, bronchiectasis, or previous treatment for MAC-PD. Further research is needed to study the long-term outcomes of TIW treatment.
