
UI  - 24684867
TI  - A prospective, randomized controlled trial of single-incision laparoscopic vs conventional 3-port laparoscopic appendectomy for treatment of acute appendicitis.
AB  - Single-incision laparoscopic surgery appendectomy resulted in more pain and longer operative times without improving short-term recovery or complications. Long-term body image and cosmetic appearance were excellent in both groups.

UI  - 24374517
TI  - Long-term follow-up for adhesive small bowel obstruction after open versus laparoscopic surgery for suspected appendicitis.
AB  - Hospitalization due to SBO, between open and laparoscopic procedures, in patients operated on because of suspected appendicitis demonstrated a significant difference, favoring the laparoscopic approach. The frequency of SBO after the index surgery was, though, low in both groups.

UI  - 23692520
TI  - Does an Acute Surgical Model increase the rate of negative appendicectomy or perforated appendicitis?
AB  - The introduction of the ASM at GH has not significantly altered the rate of NA or PA. The NA rate at GH is comparable to other published UK and Australian series.

UI  - 23098130
TI  - The value of pancreatic stone protein in predicting acute appendicitis in patients presenting at the emergency department with abdominal pain.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT01610193; Institution Ethical Board Approval ID: KEKZH- Nr. 2011-0501.

UI  - 22869405
TI  - Validation and refinement of a prediction rule to identify children at low risk for acute appendicitis.
AB  - We have validated and refined a simple clinical prediction rule for pediatric appendicitis. For patients identified as being at low risk, clinicians should consider alternative strategies, such as observation or ultrasonographic examination, rather than proceeding to immediate computed tomographic imaging.

UI  - 22824858
TI  - Warm, humidified carbon dioxide gas insufflation for laparoscopic appendicectomy in children: a double-blinded randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Warm, humidified CO(2) insufflation for acute laparoscopic appendicectomy has no short-term clinical benefits on postoperative outcomes in pediatric patients (ClinicalTrials.gov trial identifying code: NCT01027455).

UI  - 22533576
TI  - Low-dose abdominal CT for evaluating suspected appendicitis.
AB  - Low-dose CT was noninferior to standard-dose CT with respect to negative appendectomy rates in young adults with suspected appendicitis. (Funded by GE Healthcare Medical Diagnostics and others; ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00913380.).

UI  - 22392173
TI  - Interrater reliability of clinical findings in children with possible appendicitis.
AB  - Interrater reliability of patient history and physical examination variables was generally fair to moderate. Those variables with higher interrater reliability are more appropriate for inclusion in clinical prediction rules in children with possible appendicitis.

UI  - 22305331
TI  - Detection and diagnostic value of urine leucine-rich -2-glycoprotein in children with suspected acute appendicitis.
AB  - Urine LRG ELISA allows for discrimination between patients with and without acute appendicitis but exhibits limited accuracy because of immunoassay interference. Direct measurements of urine LRG with selected ion monitoring mass spectrometry demonstrate superior diagnostic performance. Development of a clinical-grade urine LRG assay is needed to advance the diagnostic accuracy of clinical evaluations of appendicitis.

UI  - 22221415
TI  - Diagnostic characteristics of S100A8/A9 in a multicenter study of patients with acute right lower quadrant abdominal pain.
AB  - In patients presenting with acute right lower quadrant abdominal pain, we found the investigational enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) test for S100A8/A9 to perform with high sensitivity but very limited specificity. We found that shipping effect and delay in analysis resulted in a subsequent rise in test values, thereby increasing the sensitivity and decreasing the specificity of the test. Further investigation with hospital-based laboratory analyzers is the next critical step for determining the ultimate clinical utility of the ELISA test for S100A8/A9 in ED patients presenting with acute right lower quadrant abdominal pain.

UI  - 22009520
TI  - Diagnosing appendicitis at different time points in children with right lower quadrant pain: comparison between Pediatric Appendicitis Score and the Alvarado score.
AB  - The preliminary data show that the best cutoff score of Alvarado and PAS systems vary with the different time points of RLQ pain presentation. It may provide helpful information for primary or emergency physicians to determine whether the patient should undergo surgical consultation.

UI  - 21906396
TI  - Point of care technology or standard laboratory service in an emergency department: is there a difference in time to action? A randomised trial.
AB  - Fast laboratory answers by POCT in an ED reduce the time to clinical decision significantly for bacterial infections. We suggest further studies which include a sufficient number of patients on deep venous thrombosis, acute appendicitis and acute coronary syndrome.

UI  - 21550483
TI  - Amoxicillin plus clavulanic acid versus appendicectomy for treatment of acute uncomplicated appendicitis: an open-label, non-inferiority, randomised controlled trial.
AB  - French Ministry of Health, Programme Hospitalier de Recherche Clinique 2002.

UI  - 21450436
TI  - Is urinary 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid helpful for early diagnosis of acute appendicitis?
AB  - The measurement of urinary 5-HIAA levels is not an ideal diagnostic tool for ruling out or determination of acute appendicitis.

UI  - 21329493
TI  - Modified Alvarado Scoring System as a diagnostic tool for acute appendicitis at Bugando Medical Centre, Mwanza, Tanzania.
AB  - The study shows that use of MASS in patients suspected to have acute appendicitis provides a high degree of diagnostic accuracy and can be employed at Bugando Medical Centre to improve the diagnostic accuracy of acute appendicitis and subsequently reduces negative appendicectomy and complication rates. However, additional investigations may be required to confirm the diagnosis in case of atypical presentation.

UI  - 20961412
TI  - Optimizing imaging in suspected appendicitis (OPTIMAP-study): a multicenter diagnostic accuracy study of MRI in patients with suspected acute appendicitis. Study Protocol.
AB  - NTR2148.

UI  - 20797745
TI  - Comparison of outcomes after laparoscopic versus open appendectomy for acute appendicitis at 222 ACS NSQIP hospitals.
AB  - Within ACS NSQIP hospitals, LA is associated with lower overall morbidity in selected patients. However, patients with complicated appendicitis may have a greater risk of organ space SSI after LA. Academic affiliation does not seem to influence the operative approach. However, LA is associated with similar durations of stay but slightly greater operative times than OA at academic versus community hospitals.

UI  - 20645506
TI  - Laparoscopic appendectomy in the treatment of acute appendicitis.
AB  - Time of surgery is shorter and the duration of hospitalization, amount of given analgesic is smaller, less number of postoperative complications, better cosmetic effect and advantages of application of hem-o-lok over endo-loop laparoscopic appendectomy is preferred.

UI  - 20119730
TI  - Profiles of US and CT imaging features with a high probability of appendicitis.
AB  - Most patients with appendicitis can be categorised within a few imaging profiles on US and CT. When two of the essential features are present the diagnosis of appendicitis can be made accurately.

UI  - 19689484
TI  - Single and combined diagnostic value of clinical features and laboratory tests in acute appendicitis.
AB  - The discriminative power (AUC) of individual clinical features and laboratory test results for appendicitis was weak in patients with suspected appendicitis. Combinations of clinical features and laboratory tests with high diagnostic accuracy are relatively infrequent in patients with suspected appendicitis.

UI  - 19542400
TI  - Diagnosis of acute appendicitis with sliding slab ray-sum interpretation of low-dose unenhanced CT and standard-dose i.v. contrast-enhanced CT scans.
AB  - Low-dose unenhanced CT is potentially useful in the diagnosis of appendicitis.

UI  - 19517167
TI  - Laparoscopic versus open appendectomy: a prospective randomized comparison.
AB  - Laparoscopic appendectomy is a useful tool in the treatment of acute appendicitis. Its advantages lie in its minimal invasiveness, its better cosmetic outcome, its lower rate of complications based on surgical expertise and state-of-the-art equipment. It can be recommended as an adoptable method for the routine patient with appendicitis.

UI  - 19358184
TI  - Randomized clinical trial of antibiotic therapy versus appendicectomy as primary treatment of acute appendicitis in unselected patients.
AB  - NCT00469430 (http://www.clinicaltrials.gov).

UI  - 18998368
TI  - [Prospective study comparing the incidence of wound infection following appendectomy for acute appendicitis in children: conventional treatment versus using reabsorbable antibacterial suture or gentamicin-impregnated collagen fleeces].
AB  - Postappendectomy wound infection is frequent in the pediatric age. It causes them important discomfort. We have conducted a prospective clinical study to evaluate this incidence under different surgical management. The subjects were children undergoing appendectomy for acute appendicitis. The patients belonging to the Control Group were operated, by standard surgical technique, along the first 9 months of the study period (n: 58). The Study Group was constituted by 101 children operated during the 9 consecutives months, identical on the basis of demographics and operations undergone, except for the use of, in an alleatory manner, sutures with antiseptic impregnation (Vicryl Plus, Ethicon Johnson & Johnson Medical), to close the incisi6n in children included in Study Sub-Group A, or gentamycin-containing collagen sponge (Collatamp EG, Aculia Fombona, S.A.; Schering-Plough, S.A.), placed within the muscles before wound closure, in the children belonging to the Study Sub-Group B. We have analyzed in the two Groups the incidence of postoperative wound infection and the mean Hospital stay. The use of sutures with antiseptic impregnation and/or gentamycin-containing collagen sponge, significantly reduced the wound infection rates in the children operated on for appendicectomy included in the Study Group, compared with the ones in the Control Group, therefore contributing to decrease the Hospital length of stay.

UI  - 18723709
TI  - Morphine analgesia in patients with acute appendicitis: a randomised double-blind clinical trial.
AB  - NCT00477061.

UI  - 18553045
TI  - The appendicitis inflammatory response score: a tool for the diagnosis of acute appendicitis that outperforms the Alvarado score.
AB  - This simple clinical score can correctly classify the majority of patients with suspected appendicitis, leaving the need for diagnostic imaging or diagnostic laparoscopy to the smaller group of patients with an indeterminate scoring result.

UI  - 18436178
TI  - Concordance of interrater assessments of surgical methods to achieve source control of intra-abdominal infections.
AB  - Agreement on source control is lacking on more severely ill patients and those with complicated appendicitis. These data should be used to seek optimal management for these conditions and to minimize variability in future clinical trials of intra-abdominal infection.

UI  - 18418861
TI  - Impact of body mass index and tobacco smoking on outcome after open appendicectomy.
AB  - Perforation due to acute appendicitis was associated with current tobacco smoking. A BMI of 27.5 kg/m(2) or more and current smoking were associated with overall postoperative complications in patients with NPA.

UI  - 18043966
TI  - Artificial neural networks: useful aid in diagnosing acute appendicitis.
AB  - ANNs can be an effective tool for accurately diagnosing appendicitis and may reduce unnecessary appendectomies.

UI  - 17870498
TI  - The Alvarado score and antibiotics therapy as a corporate protocol versus conventional clinical management: randomized controlled pilot study of approach to acute appendicitis.
AB  - 

UI  - 17365999
TI  - Interleukin-6 and lipopolysaccharide-binding protein in acute appendicitis in children.
AB  - The aim of the study was to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of interleukin-6 (IL-6) and lipopolysaccharide-binding protein (LBP) in children with acute appendicitis (AA) and to compare this with the diagnostic accuracy of routinely used C-reactive protein (CRP) and white blood cell (WBC) count. Eighty-two consecutive children admitted to our Department because of suspected AA were enrolled in this prospective study and classified into two groups: group 1 (49 children who underwent surgery for AA) and group 2 (33 children with no surgery with diagnosis of non-specific abdominal pain or sonographic mesenteric lymphadenitis). There were no negative appendectomies during the time of the study. The patients were further classified into three subgroups: subgroup 1A (43 patients with advanced AA), subgroup 2A (11 patients with mesenteric lymphadenitis) and subgroup 2B (10 patients with non-specific abdominal pain). The perforation rate was 32.7 %. WBC count and serum CRP, IL-6 and LBP were measured on admission. Area under receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve (AUC), sensitivity, specificity and predictive values were evaluated. Serum IL-6 and LBP were significantly higher in group 1 than in group 2. The highest AUC for AA was that for IL-6 (0.776), followed by WBC count (0.684), CRP (0.637) and LBP (0.635). In conclusion, only IL-6, determined on admission, showed medium diagnostic accuracy, while other laboratory markers showed low diagnostic accuracy for AA in children. The new laboratory markers therefore do not significantly improve the diagnosis of AA.

UI  - 16736333
TI  - Appendectomy versus antibiotic treatment in acute appendicitis. a prospective multicenter randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Acute non-perforated appendicitis can be treated successfully with antibiotics. However, there is a risk of recurrence in cases of acute appendicitis, and this risk should be compared with the risk of complications after appendectomy.

UI  - 16199711
TI  - Early analgesia for children with acute abdominal pain.
AB  - Our data show that morphine effectively reduces the intensity of pain among children with acute abdominal pain and morphine does not seem to impede the diagnosis of appendicitis.

UI  - 15791379
TI  - The Feny-Lindberg scoring system for appendicitis increases positive predictive value in fertile women--a prospective study in 455 patients randomized to either laparoscopic or open appendectomy.
AB  - The Feny-Lindberg score is an inexpensive clinical tool that may improve the diagnostic accuracy for acute appendicitis in women of childbearing age, which is a group of patients where the diagnostic accuracy usually is low and where the arsenal of diagnostic tools such as computed tomography is limited because of radiation. The low specificity of the score in women of childbearing age must, however, be kept in mind.

UI  - 15609378
TI  - Randomized clinical trial of laparoscopic versus open appendicectomy for confirmed appendicitis.
AB  - There was no difference in time to full recovery after LA and OA in patients with laparoscopically confirmed appendicitis. A trend towards better physical activity was noted after the laparoscopic procedure.

UI  - 15573244
TI  - Efficacy of pre-incisional bupivacaine infiltration on postoperative pain relief after appendectomy: prospective double-blind randomized trial.
AB  - Pain is the most undesirable and threatening experience for surgical patients. This study aims to determine the efficacy of pre-incisional analgesic bupivacaine infiltration (preemptive analgesia) on postoperative pain relief after appendectomy. A prospective randomized double-blinded study was conducted on 123 patients aged 13-45 years with a preoperative and-postoperative diagnosis of acute appendicitis admitted to Siriraj Hospital, Bangkok, from January to May 2002. They were randomly set into two groups: the control (61 patients) and the preemptive (62 patients). In the preemptive group, bupivacaine (Marcaine) was infiltrated into the skin and subcutaneous tissue along the proposed wound line before gridiron incision, and also into the muscle layer after incision. The control group received no injection. Routine appendectomy was done. Pain score was assessed by the patients in the first 48 hr while they were lying supine and as they moved to a sitting position at 24 and 48 hr after operation. Morphine injection was given on patients' request with pain score = 5 every 4 hr in the first 48 hr or until analgesic paracetamol could be taken orally. The pain score during the first 6, 12, 24, and 48 hr, including the score while sitting up, were all significantly lower ( p < 0.001) in the preemptive group. So were the total number of morphine injections and the amount of morphine used postoperatively. The pain reduction could be due to interruption of inflammatory or pain mediator cascades that normally occur during an operation. This study showed that pre-incisional bupivacaine infiltration is an effective and simple method of reducing postoperative pain for patients undergoing appendectomy.

UI  - 15529837
TI  - The efficacy of postoperative oral antibiotics in appendicitis: a randomized prospective double-blinded study.
AB  - The conventional treatment of acute appendicitis is appendectomy followed by intravenous (IV) antibiotics until intraabdominal infection has resolved. It is controversial as to whether it is efficacious to add a course of oral antibiotics after cessation of IV antibiotics. All consenting patients who presented to Kern Medical Center between October 2000 and June 2003 with acute appendicitis were entered into the study. Perforated/gangrenous appendicitis was equally represented in the two study arms. After appendectomy, and when IV antibiotics were ready to be discontinued, patients were randomized to receive a 7-day outpatient course of either placebo (Group 1) or oral antibiotics (Group 2). Patients were monitored for infectious complications for a minimum of 3 months, and there was no statistical difference (11.5% in Group 1 vs 12.1% in Group 2, P = 0.61). The data suggest that adding a course of outpatient oral antibiotics, after completing a course of IV antibiotics, does not decrease postoperative infectious complications in appendicitis patients.

UI  - 15258869
TI  - Does morphine change the physical examination in patients with acute appendicitis?
AB  - The objective of this study was to determine if judicious dosing of morphine sulfate can provide pain relief without changing important physical examination findings in patients with acute appendicitis. We conducted a prospective, randomized, double-blind crossover design. Patients scheduled for appendectomy were randomized to two groups. Group A received 0.075 mg/kg intravenous morphine sulfate and 30 minutes later received placebo. The sequence of medication was reversed in group B. Patients were examined by a surgical resident and an EM attending before and after receiving medication. Six explicit physical examination findings were documented as absent, indeterminate, or present. Physicians were also asked if they felt overall examination findings had changed after medication. Patient's visual analog scale (VAS) was recorded before each medication and at study completion. Thirty-four patients were enrolled and full data were available for 22 patients. Neither morphine nor placebo caused a significant change in individual examination findings. Three patients in both groups were judged to have a change in their examination after medication. The median change in VAS was 20 mm after morphine and 0 mm after placebo (P =.01). In this pilot study, patients with clinical signs of appendicitis were treated with morphine and had significant improvement of their pain without changes in their physical examination.

UI  - 15080514
TI  - The value of 5-hydroxy indole acetic acid measurement in spot urine in diagnosis of acute appendicitis.
AB  - Urine 5-HIAA measurement has low sensitivity and specificity. The value of the test is even clearly lower in gangrenous appendicitis. This may be misleading in management of patients in late phase of appendicitis and in cases with perforation which is mainly responsible for morbidity.

UI  - 14768141
TI  - Laparoscopic versus open surgical exploration in premenopausal women with suspected acute appendicitis.
AB  - Laparoscopy may carry some diagnostic advantage over open surgery in premenopausal women with suspected acute appendicitis. Patients found not to have acute appendicitis have a marginally shorter period of hospitalisation after laparoscopic intervention. The outcome following laparoscopic appendicectomy for confirmed acute appendicitis is at least equivalent to that achieved with conventional appendicectomy. Laparoscopic exploration is an acceptable option in premonopausal women requiring surgery for suspected acute appendicitis.

UI  - 14691696
TI  - Laparoscopic versus open appendectomy: what is the real difference? Results of a prospective randomized double-blinded trial.
AB  - In this prospective randomized double-blinded trial, laparoscopic appendectomy appears to confer no significant advantage over open appendectomy for postoperative pain or lost work days. It does carry an increase in operating room costs and, contrary to other reports, hospital stay is not shortened. Further studies are needed to determine if specific populations, such as the obese or women, may benefit from a minimally invasive approach to appendicitis.

UI  - 12362098
TI  - Somatosensory changes in the referred pain area following acute inflammation of the appendix.
AB  - Somatosensory hyperalgesia to experimental stimuli was observed in acute appendicitis. We believe that viscerosomatic convergence mechanisms and central nervous system hyperexcitability explain these findings.

UI  - 12049313
TI  - Neurogenic appendicopathy: a clinical disease entity?
AB  - Neurogenic appendicopathy is a histopathological entity that can be identified by hematoxylin-eosin staining. History and clinical examination do not enable us preoperatively to differentiate between acute appendicitis, NA, and negative appendectomy.

UI  - 11967756
TI  - Neurogenic appendicopathy in children.
AB  - Neurogenic appendicopathy is a very rare histopathological entity in children. History and clinical examination do not make it possible for us to differentiate preoperatively between acute appendicitis and neurogenic appendicopathy.

UI  - 11807363
TI  - 99m Tc anti-CD 15 monoclonal antibody (LeuTech) imaging improves diagnostic accuracy and clinical management in patients with equivocal presentation of appendicitis.
AB  - LeuTech is a convenient, safe, rapid, and sensitive imaging test for diagnosis of appendicitis and favorably impacts patient management in adult and pediatric patients with equivocal signs and symptoms.

UI  - 11167866
TI  - Randomized clinical trial of laparoscopic versus open appendicectomy.
AB  - Hospital stay was equally short, whereas laparoscopic appendicectomy was associated with fewer wound infections, faster recovery, earlier return to work and improved cosmesis.

UI  - 10487595
TI  - Clinical benefit of a diagnostic score for appendicitis: results of a prospective interventional study. German Study Group of Acute Abdominal Pain.
AB  - Integration of a score into the diagnostic process may have unforeseen clinical effects. The tested score cannot be recommended as a standard tool for diagnostic decision making in acute appendicitis.

UI  - 10391166
TI  - Perforating appendicitis: is it a separate disease? Acute Abdominal Pain Study Group.
AB  - Perforated and unperforated appendicitis behave clinically like two different diseases. They can in most cases reliably be distinguished using clinical criteria alone. Although greater diagnostic accuracy may result in a higher rate of perforation, close observation and timely intervention will only marginally affect the outcome.

UI  - 10076613
TI  - Rapid diagnostic imaging of acute, nonclassic appendicitis by leukoscintigraphy with sulesomab, a technetium 99m-labeled antigranulocyte antibody Fab' fragment. LeukoScan Appendicitis Clinical Trial Group.
AB  - Sulesomab is safe, well-tolerated, and with no apparent immunogenicity. Focal inflammation or infection in the setting of suspected atypical appendicitis is rapidly and accurately detected. Management decisions incorporating sulesomab imaging potentially provide clear patient benefits, especially by correctly predicting surgery to be unnecessary in 97% of patients without acute appendicitis.

UI  - 10027359
TI  - Prospective randomized multicentre study of laparoscopic versus open appendicectomy.
AB  - Laparoscopic appendicectomy is as safe as open appendicectomy and has the advantage of allowing a quicker recovery.

UI  - 9880422
TI  - Ultrasonography for diagnosis of acute appendicitis: results of a prospective multicenter trial. Acute Abdominal Pain Study Group.
AB  - A prospective multicenter observational trial was performed to assess the performance and clinical benefit of ultrasonography of the appendix in the routine clinical examination. Included in the study were 2280 patients with acute abdominal pain from 11 surgical departments in Germany and Austria. Ultrasonography of the appendix was performed in 870 (38%) of the patients (range 16-85%). The overall sensitivity of ultrasonography of the appendix was 55% (13-90%), the specificity 95% (range 82-100%), positive predictive value 81% (50-100%), and negative predictive value 85% (68-96%). With respect to single ultrasound scan findings, adequate sensitivity (44%) was achieved only with the target phenomen, not with the other criteria. There were no correlations between the ultrasound findings of the appendix and the diagnostic accuracy of the clinician, the negative appendectomy rate, or the perforated appendix rate. From the study it can be concluded that there is no proven clinical benefit of ultrasound scanning of the appendix in the routine clinical diagnosis.

UI  - 9550848
TI  - Diagnosis of acute appendicitis in two databases. Evaluation of different neighborhoods with an LVQ neural network.
AB  - The use of an artificial neural network system was studied in the diagnosis of acute abdominal pain, especially acute appendicitis, with patients from Finland and Germany. Separate Learning Vector Quantization (LVQ) neural networks were trained with a training set from each database and also with a combined database. Each neural network was evaluated separately with a test set of cases from each database. With the combined database different neighborhood methods were compared to find the optimal choice for this decision-making problem. The acute appendicitis cases of the Finnish test data set were classified well with all the networks, but the cases of the German test set were difficult to classify for the Finnish network. The use of larger neighborhoods increased the sensitivity of the classification by nearly 10%. The differences in the results of the Finnish and German databases suggest that there are differences in the data collection or patient populations between centers. Therefore, care must be taken when using decision-support systems which have been developed in other centers. Neural networks offer a method to evaluate differences between databases. With the use of larger neighborhoods, the effects of the differences on the accuracy of the classification can be partly diminished.

UI  - 8620275
TI  - Meropenem versus tobramycin with clindamycin in the antibiotic management of patients with advanced appendicitis.
AB  - This study demonstrates a small but significant reduction (approximately one day) in post-operative fever, duration of antibiotic treatment, and hospital stay for patients treated with MP compared to those treated with T/C.

UI  - 7743448
TI  - Diagnostic accuracy and short-term surgical outcomes in cases of suspected acute appendicitis.
AB  - A higher diagnostic accuracy rate is associated with more perforated appendixes. Although perforation itself leads to adverse outcomes, a higher accuracy rate does not. This suggests that hospitals with higher accuracy rates incur more perforations, but, with close observation, timely laparotomy and the use of modern antibiotics, these patients have favourable outcomes. This contrasts with adverse effects of perforation among patients at high risk for perforation (especially very young children and elderly people) in centres at all accuracy levels. The variation in hospitals' diagnostic accuracy rates suggests that some proportion of appendectomies could be safely avoided.

UI  - 9457980
TI  - Maternal serum creatine kinase as a biochemical marker of tubal pregnancy.
AB  - Our results indicate that maternal serum creatine kinase can be an important biochemical marker in suspected tubal pregnancy.

UI  - 7612771
TI  - Diagnostic scores for acute appendicitis. Abdominal Pain Study Group.
AB  - The original published data seemed to comply with our standardised criteria but evaluation of the scores on our database resulted in poor performances for all of them. Published data seem to be optimistically biased whereas our evaluation gives more realistic estimates of the routine performance in different clinical environments. Further well designed large scale trials are needed to investigate the clinical benefit of diagnostic scoring in acute appendicitis.

UI  - 7749676
TI  - Randomized controlled trial of appendicectomy versus antibiotic therapy for acute appendicitis.
AB  - In a prospective controlled study the effect of antibiotics as the only treatment in acute appendicitis was evaluated. Of 40 patients admitted with a duration of abdominal pain of less than 72 h, 20 received antibiotics intravenously for 2 days followed by oral treatment for 8 days and 20 considered as controls were randomized to surgery. All patients treated conservatively were discharged within 2 days, except one who required surgery after 12 h because of peritonitis secondary to perforated appendicitis. Seven patients were readmitted within 1 year as a result of recurrent appendicitis and underwent surgery, when appendicitis was confirmed. The diagnostic accuracy within the operated group was 85 per cent. One patient had perforated appendicitis at operation. Antibiotic treatment in patients with acute appendicitis was as effective as surgery. The patients had less pain and required less analgesia, but the recurrence rate was high.

UI  - 8000659
TI  - Single-dose cefotetan or cefoxitin versus multiple-dose cefoxitin as prophylaxis in patients undergoing appendectomy for acute nonperforated appendicitis.
AB  - Single-dose cefotetan and multiple-dose cefoxitin are equally effective. However, because of the greater convenience and markedly decreased cost, single-dose cefotetan is the prophylaxis of choice in appendectomy for nonperforated appendicitis.

UI  - 1377245
TI  - Antibiotic prophylaxis in acute non-perforated appendicitis in children: single dose of metronidazole and gentamicin.
AB  - In a 3-year study, 103 children with acute non-perforated appendicitis who underwent appendicectomy were randomized for either a single preoperative dose of gentamicin and metronidazole or three doses of gentamicin and metronidazole given before and after the operation. The overall wound infection rate was 1.9%. There was no significant difference between wound infection rates of the single-dose group (2.1%) and the three-dose group (1.8%). The mean(s.d.) hospital stays of the single-dose and three-dose groups were similar: 6.6(2.2) days and 6.4(2.7) days. This study shows that a single preoperative dose of gentamicin and metronidazole is as effective as three doses of gentamicin and metronidazole in the control of post-appendicectomy wound sepsis.

UI  - 2656877
TI  - Nonperforative appendicitis: a continuing surgical dilemma.
AB  - Acute appendicitis continues as a medical challenge with newer approaches failing to improve diagnostic accuracy. The role of antibiotics in acute nonperforative appendicitis (NPA) remains unclear. In 175 patients studied at two hospitals, preoperative guidelines were used to exclude perforative appendicitis. Nevertheless, 14% of patients were found to have this condition. Surgeon's reports significantly underestimated the diagnosis when compared with the pathologists' reports. Antibiotic prophylaxis in 122 patients with NPA was studied prospectively comparing ceftizoxime (CTZ), cefamandole (CFM), and placebo (PLA). Ceftizoxime decreased the infection rate compared with PLA (0 vs. 8; P less than .01). Use of antibiotics (CTZ or CFM) resulted in decreased infections when compared with PLA (3 vs. 8; P less than .01) and fewer days of hospitalization (3.8 vs. 5.4 d, P less than .005). Analysis of infection risk factors showed no correlations except for failure to administer antibiotics and the finding of a gangrenous appendix. Operative culture results had no predictive value for either infection or pathogen identification. It is recommended that all patients undergoing surgery for NPA be given 1 d of antibiotic prophylaxis.

UI  - 3094664
TI  - Computer aided diagnosis of acute abdominal pain: a multicentre study.
AB  - A multicentre study of computer aided diagnosis for patients with acute abdominal pain was performed in eight centres with over 250 participating doctors and 16,737 patients. Performance in diagnosis and decision making was compared over two periods: a test period (when a small computer system was provided to aid diagnosis) and a baseline period (before the system was installed). The two periods were well matched for type of case and rate of accrual. The system proved reliable and was used in 75.1% of possible cases. User reaction was broadly favourable. During the test period improvements were noted in diagnosis, decision making, and patient outcome. Initial diagnostic accuracy rose from 45.6% to 65.3%. The negative laparotomy rate fell by almost half, as did the perforation rate among patients with appendicitis (from 23.7% to 11.5%). The bad management error rate fell from 0.9% to 0.2%, and the observed mortality fell by 22.0%. The savings made were estimated as amounting to 278 laparotomies and 8,516 bed nights during the trial period--equivalent throughout the National Health Service to annual savings in resources worth over 20m pounds and direct cost savings of over 5m pounds. Computer aided diagnosis is a useful system for improving diagnosis and encouraging better clinical practice.

UI  - 6404238
TI  - Acute nonperforating appendicitis. Efficacy of brief antibiotic prophylaxis.
AB  - A prospective, randomized, double-blind clinical study was performed to determine the efficacy of perioperative systemic antibiotics in preventing infection after appendectomy for acute nonperforating appendicitis. One hundred three patients received three doses of either placebo (saline, n = 52) or cefoxitin sodium (n = 51). The two groups were similar with regard to age distribution, sex ratio, duration of operation, pathologic condition of appendix, and hospital stay. Postoperative wound infections were detected in 9.6% of the placebo-treated patients, whereas none occurred in the cefoxitin group. All but one infection appeared after discharge. Cost analysis identified a net savings of $ 84 per patient with the use of prophylactic antibiotics. Septic morbidity after appendectomy for nonperforating appendicitis is significantly reduced by systemic antibiotics, and brief administration of a single broad-spectrum agent (cefoxitin) is effective prophylaxis.

UI  - 7025769
TI  - Effect of prophylactic antibiotics in acute nonperforated appendicitis: a prospective, randomized, double-blind clinical study.
AB  - A prospective, randomized, double-blind clinical study was performed to determined the efficacy of short-term (24 hr) perioperative antibiotics in preventing septic complications after emergency appendectomy for nonperforated appendicitis. The patients were stratified into three clinical arms: Group I (placebo, n = 45), Group II (cefamandole, n = 46) and Group III (cefamandole plus carbenicillin, n = 45). The three groups of patients were similar in regard to age, sex, duration of operation and pathologic classification of the appendix. The overall incidence of infection in the study was 5.1%. The infection rates in Groups II (2.2%) and III (0%) were significantly lower than Group I (placebo) (13.3%), (p less than 0.05). No difference was observed between cefamandole alone and cefamandole plus carbenicillin. Average postoperative hospital days per patient for each group was: Group I - 3.8 days; Group II - 2.9 days; Group III - 3.1 days. Cost analysis of hospitalization including cost of prophylactic antibiotics revealed a $247.99 per patient saving for Group II versus Group I and $95.53 for Group III versus Group I. Systemic prophylactic antibiotics can successfully reduce septic complications after appendectomy for nonperforated appendicitis, and a single drug (cefamandole) directed at the facultative pathogens is as effective as double drug therapy, which includes specific anaerobic coverage.
