
UI  - 23415202
TI  - [Sequential antibiotic therapy in complicated acute appendicitis].
AB  - Initial results show a shorter hospital stay and lower costs for the group of children with sequential postoperative antimicrobial therapy.

UI  - 21964835
TI  - Is amoxicillin plus clavulanic acid non-inferior to appendicectomy for the treatment of uncomplicated acute appendicitis?
AB  - 

UI  - 21683209
TI  - Quality of life assessment between laparoscopic appendectomy at presentation and interval appendectomy for perforated appendicitis with abscess: analysis of a prospective randomized trial.
AB  - Families experience significant parenting distress related to the child's functioning and disruption in the child's quality of life that may be because of the delay in fully resolving the child's medical condition. In addition, parents experience negative consequences to their own stress as a result of the delay before the child's appendectomy.

UI  - 21550483
TI  - Amoxicillin plus clavulanic acid versus appendicectomy for treatment of acute uncomplicated appendicitis: an open-label, non-inferiority, randomised controlled trial.
AB  - French Ministry of Health, Programme Hospitalier de Recherche Clinique 2002.

UI  - 20137360
TI  - Relief of abdominal pain by morphine without altering physical signs in acute appendicitis.
AB  - Morphine relieved abdominal pain and improved the patients' cooperation for treatment and care. Furthermore, the morphine did not mask the physical signs of acute appendicitis.

UI  - 20127199
TI  - Letter to the editor. Re: Conservative management of acute appendicitis.
AB  - 

UI  - 19358184
TI  - Randomized clinical trial of antibiotic therapy versus appendicectomy as primary treatment of acute appendicitis in unselected patients.
AB  - NCT00469430 (http://www.clinicaltrials.gov).

UI  - 19277796
TI  - Conservative management of acute appendicitis.
AB  - Our conclusion is that antibiotic treatment in the patients with acute appendicitis is quite effective, and these patients may not need surgery. The patients managed conservatively with antibiotics alone experience less pain and require less analgesia but have high recurrent rate.

UI  - 19040944
TI  - An evidence-based definition for perforated appendicitis derived from a prospective randomized trial.
AB  - Defining perforation as a hole in the appendix or a fecalith in the abdomen is effective in identifying the patients at risk for postoperative abscess formation. Application of these criteria would allow substantial reduction in therapy for patients with purulent or gangrenous appendicitis who do not possess the same abscess risk. These data outline the first evidence-based definition of perforation.

UI  - 17870498
TI  - The Alvarado score and antibiotics therapy as a corporate protocol versus conventional clinical management: randomized controlled pilot study of approach to acute appendicitis.
AB  - 

UI  - 17437361
TI  - Predictors of efficacy and health resource utilization in treatment of complicated intra-abdominal infections: evidence for pooled clinical studies comparing tigecycline with imipenem-cilastatin.
AB  - Tigecycline was similar to imipenem-cilastatin in terms of both efficacy and health resource utilization. Risk factors identified in this study for both outcome measures are offered as support for guiding clinical practice.

UI  - 16736333
TI  - Appendectomy versus antibiotic treatment in acute appendicitis. a prospective multicenter randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Acute non-perforated appendicitis can be treated successfully with antibiotics. However, there is a risk of recurrence in cases of acute appendicitis, and this risk should be compared with the risk of complications after appendectomy.

UI  - 15529837
TI  - The efficacy of postoperative oral antibiotics in appendicitis: a randomized prospective double-blinded study.
AB  - The conventional treatment of acute appendicitis is appendectomy followed by intravenous (IV) antibiotics until intraabdominal infection has resolved. It is controversial as to whether it is efficacious to add a course of oral antibiotics after cessation of IV antibiotics. All consenting patients who presented to Kern Medical Center between October 2000 and June 2003 with acute appendicitis were entered into the study. Perforated/gangrenous appendicitis was equally represented in the two study arms. After appendectomy, and when IV antibiotics were ready to be discontinued, patients were randomized to receive a 7-day outpatient course of either placebo (Group 1) or oral antibiotics (Group 2). Patients were monitored for infectious complications for a minimum of 3 months, and there was no statistical difference (11.5% in Group 1 vs 12.1% in Group 2, P = 0.61). The data suggest that adding a course of outpatient oral antibiotics, after completing a course of IV antibiotics, does not decrease postoperative infectious complications in appendicitis patients.

UI  - 14691709
TI  - Open and laparoscopic appendectomy are equally safe and acceptable in children.
AB  - Pediatric patients with appendicitis can safely be offered laparoscopic appendectomy without incurring a greater risk for complications. Nevertheless, a higher (but not significantly higher) abscess rate was found in patients with perforated appendicitis who underwent laparoscopy.

UI  - 12632352
TI  - Appendicitis 2000: variability in practice, outcomes, and resource utilization at thirty pediatric hospitals.
AB  - Significant variability in practice patterns and resource utilization exists in the management of acute appendicitis in pediatric hospitals. Clinical outcomes could be improved by collaborative initiatives to adopt evidence-based best practices.

UI  - 10231206
TI  - Can oral metronidazole substitute parenteral drug therapy in acute appendicitis? A new policy in the management of simple or complicated appendicitis with localized peritonitis: a randomized controlled clinical trial.
AB  - To demonstrate the efficacy of oral metronidazole (OM) in simple or complicated appendicitis with localized peritonitis, a randomized prospective study was carried out in 1083 patients, ranging in age from 4 to 50 years (mean age, 21.38). The patients were randomly divided into two groups. The study group (SG) (524 patients) received OM (500 mg for adults, 7-10 mg/kg if less than 15 years) 2-3 hours before operation. The drug was continued 4 to 5 hours after operation, every 8 hours, for three doses if the appendix was mild to severely inflamed. In the case of complicated appendicitis (114 patients), the same dose was given for 3 to 6 days, depending on the absence or presence of pus. Ceftizoxime was administered to the control group (CG) (559 patients) 2 to 3 hours before operation and then postoperatively every 6 hours for three doses if the appendix was mild to severely inflamed. The complicated cases in the CG (120 patients) received a combination of penicillin, chloramphenicol, and gentamicin for 3 to 6 days, depending on the absence or presence of pus. The serum concentration of metronidazole measured in 43 patients was at bactericidal level in 40 (mean +/- SD standard deviation, 10.65 +/- 4.89 microg/mL). The rate of wound infection was not significantly different in the SG and the CG with the same degree of pathology (3.17% vs 2.96% if uncomplicated; 15.78% vs 14.16% if complicated, respectively). Pelvic collection occurred in four adults and one child in the CG with perforated appendicitis (4.16%). The same complication developed in two adults and two children in the SG with perforated appendicitis (3.5%). All six adults and one of the children in the SG had to be re-explored, whereas the remaining two children responded to conservative management (OM and gentamicin). In uncomplicated cases, hospital stay and hospital charge were both almost the same in both groups. However, length of hospitalization was nearly 1 day shorter and hospital cost per day was about 30 per cent less in complicated cases in the SG as compared with the CG. Conclusively, OM may not only substitute parenteral antibiotics in acute appendicitis as a prophylactic agent, but it may also be used as a cost-effective drug and is more convenient to the patient.

UI  - 9568649
TI  - Is abdominal cavity culture of any value in appendicitis?
AB  - Traditional intraoperative abdominal cavity culture can be abandoned. In perforated appendicitis, colonic flora can be predicted, and antibiotic therapy should begun without any abdominal cavity culture results. This practical approach will save money and reduce laboratory work without affecting the patient's morbidity.

UI  - 8620275
TI  - Meropenem versus tobramycin with clindamycin in the antibiotic management of patients with advanced appendicitis.
AB  - This study demonstrates a small but significant reduction (approximately one day) in post-operative fever, duration of antibiotic treatment, and hospital stay for patients treated with MP compared to those treated with T/C.

UI  - 7710799
TI  - Ultrasonographic findings after conservative treatment of acute appendicitis and open appendicectomy.
AB  - In a randomized study we investigated the effects of antibiotics as the only treatment in acute appendicitis. Forty patients were examined, 19 after antibiotic treatment (one operated due to perforation) and 21 after surgery. All patients were examined prior to randomization, after 10 days and after 30 days. Of the positive ultrasonographic (US) findings, 18 (86%) of the 21 operated patients had histologically proven acute appendicitis. At the 10th day, 9 patients had a seroma under the scar, which had disappeared a month after surgery in all patients. In the 19 patients conservatively treated with antibiotics, the appendix could be visualized in 8 symptom-free cases on the 10th day. In 5 of the 8 patients the appendix was still visualized after 1 month. Three of these 5 had recurrent appendicitis within a year. It is concluded that US can be used not only in diagnosing acute appendicitis, but also in the evaluation of treatments such as antibiotics.

UI  - 7749676
TI  - Randomized controlled trial of appendicectomy versus antibiotic therapy for acute appendicitis.
AB  - In a prospective controlled study the effect of antibiotics as the only treatment in acute appendicitis was evaluated. Of 40 patients admitted with a duration of abdominal pain of less than 72 h, 20 received antibiotics intravenously for 2 days followed by oral treatment for 8 days and 20 considered as controls were randomized to surgery. All patients treated conservatively were discharged within 2 days, except one who required surgery after 12 h because of peritonitis secondary to perforated appendicitis. Seven patients were readmitted within 1 year as a result of recurrent appendicitis and underwent surgery, when appendicitis was confirmed. The diagnostic accuracy within the operated group was 85 per cent. One patient had perforated appendicitis at operation. Antibiotic treatment in patients with acute appendicitis was as effective as surgery. The patients had less pain and required less analgesia, but the recurrence rate was high.

UI  - 1879186
TI  - Intramuscular imipenem as adjuvant therapy for acute cholecystitis and perforated or gangrenous appendicitis.
AB  - An open-label prospective study was performed employing intramuscularly administered imipenem as an adjunct to surgery in 20 patients with acute cholecystitis and 24 patients with perforated or gangrenous appendicitis. Three (12.5%) septic failures occurred in appendicitis patients and 2 (10%) failures in cholecystitis patients. There were no deaths. Adverse effects were minor, and there was no toxicity. Although failures were not associated with in vitro resistance, Pseudomonas spp. were recovered from 2 of 3 appendicitis failures. Intramuscular imipenem appeared to be an effective single-drug antimicrobial when used as an adjunct to surgery in patients with acute cholecystitis or perforated appendicitis. It should be a more cost-effective alternative to the current multiple-drug therapy frequently employed in patients with intra-abdominal sepsis.

UI  - 6404238
TI  - Acute nonperforating appendicitis. Efficacy of brief antibiotic prophylaxis.
AB  - A prospective, randomized, double-blind clinical study was performed to determine the efficacy of perioperative systemic antibiotics in preventing infection after appendectomy for acute nonperforating appendicitis. One hundred three patients received three doses of either placebo (saline, n = 52) or cefoxitin sodium (n = 51). The two groups were similar with regard to age distribution, sex ratio, duration of operation, pathologic condition of appendix, and hospital stay. Postoperative wound infections were detected in 9.6% of the placebo-treated patients, whereas none occurred in the cefoxitin group. All but one infection appeared after discharge. Cost analysis identified a net savings of $ 84 per patient with the use of prophylactic antibiotics. Septic morbidity after appendectomy for nonperforating appendicitis is significantly reduced by systemic antibiotics, and brief administration of a single broad-spectrum agent (cefoxitin) is effective prophylaxis.

UI  - 6337420
TI  - Antibiotic prophylaxis in acute appendicitis.
AB  - 
