
UI  - 25058217
TI  - Nonmyeloablative HLA-matched sibling allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation for severe sickle cell phenotype.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00061568.

UI  - 24879794
TI  - Hemin controls T cell polarization in sickle cell alloimmunization.
AB  - Patients with sickle cell disease (SCD) often require transfusions to treat and prevent worsening anemia and other SCD complications. However, transfusions can trigger alloimmunization against transfused RBCs with serious clinical sequelae. Risk factors for alloimmunization in SCD remain poorly understood. We recently reported altered regulatory T cell (Treg) and Th responses with higher circulating Th1 (IFN-(+)) cytokines in chronically transfused SCD patients with alloantibodies as compared with those without alloantibodies. Because monocytes play a critical role in polarization of T cell subsets and participate in clearance of transfused RBCs, we tested the hypothesis that in response to the RBC breakdown product hemin, monocyte control of T cell polarization will differ between alloimmunized and non-alloimmunized SCD patients. Exogenous hemin induced Treg polarization in purified T cell/monocyte cocultures from healthy volunteers through the monocyte anti-inflammatory heme-degrading enzyme heme oxygenase-1. Importantly, hemin primarily through its effect on CD16+ monocytes induced an anti-inflammatory (higher Treg/lower Th1) polarization state in the non-alloimmunized SCD group, whereas it had little effect in the alloimmunized group. Non-alloimmunized SCD CD16+ monocytes expressed higher basal levels of heme oxygenase-1. Furthermore, IL-12, which contributed to a proinflammatory polarization state (low Treg/high Th1) in SCD, was dampened in hemin-treated stimulated monocytes from non-alloimmunized SCD patients, but not in the alloimmunized group. These data suggest that unlike alloimmunized patients, non-alloimmunized SCD CD16+ monocytes in response to transfused RBC breakdown products promote an anti-inflammatory state that is less conducive to alloimmunization.

UI  - 24680796
TI  - Randomized controlled trial of sildenafil for preventing recurrent ischemic priapism in sickle cell disease.
AB  - Sildenafil use by systematic dosing may offer a strategy to prevent recurrent ischemic priapism in patients with sickle cell disease.

UI  - 24665133
TI  - Microvascular oxygen consumption during sickle cell pain crisis.
AB  - Sickle cell disease is an inherited blood disorder characterized by chronic hemolytic anemia and episodic vaso-occlusive pain crises. Vaso-occlusion occurs when deoxygenated hemoglobin S polymerizes and erythrocytes sickle and adhere in the microvasculature, a process dependent on the concentration of hemoglobin S and the rate of deoxygenation, among other factors. We measured oxygen consumption in the thenar eminence during brachial artery occlusion in sickle cell patients and healthy individuals. Microvascular oxygen consumption was greater in sickle cell patients than in healthy individuals (median [interquartile range]; sickle cell: 0.91 [0.75-1.07] vs healthy: 0.75 [0.62-0.94] -HbO2/min, P < .05) and was elevated further during acute pain crisis (crisis: 1.10 [0.78-1.30] vs recovered: 0.88 [0.76-1.03] -HbO2/min, P < .05). Increased microvascular oxygen consumption during pain crisis could affect the local oxygen saturation of hemoglobin when oxygen delivery is limiting. Identifying the mechanisms of elevated oxygen consumption during pain crisis might lead to the development of new therapeutic interventions. This trial was registered at www.clinicaltrials.gov as #NCT01568710.

UI  - 24655331
TI  - Gonadal and uterine function in female survivors treated by chemotherapy, radiotherapy, and/or bone marrow transplantation for childhood malignant and non-malignant diseases.
AB  - Conditioning therapies for SCT, including TBI, had the worst effects on uterine volume and gonadal reserve. Increasing age at treatment and conventional chemotherapy were associated with less detrimental effects on uterine volume.

UI  - 24562420
TI  - The 6-min walk test: an independent correlate of elevated tricuspid regurgitant jet velocity in children and young adult sickle cell patients.
AB  - Elevation of echocardiography-determined tricuspid regurgitant jet velocity (TRV) predicts high systolic pulmonary artery pressure. The present study tested the hypotheses that elevated tricuspid regurgitant jet velocity is associated with both hemolysis and hypoxia and abnormal 6-min walk test (6MWT) results. This study aims to correlate elevated TRV with different clinical laboratory findings and 6MWT and to find the independent predictors of increased TRV. A prospective study of 80 patients aged 5-25years old with sickle cell disease (SCD) under basal conditions and 40 matched controls was conducted. Hemolytic analysis was assessed by the levels of lactate dehydrogenase, serum bilirubin, and reticulocyte count. Oxygen saturation determination using pulse oximeter and 6MWT were done. The overall prevalence of elevated TRV (2.5m/s) was 28.75%. Associated risk factors were older age (r=0.28, p=0.01), longer duration of disease (r=0.25, p=0.025), higher reticulocytic count (r=0.344, p=0.002), lower O2 saturation (r=-0.574, p=0.0001), and shorter walked distance in 6MWT (r=-0.75, p=0.0001). By multivariate logistic analysis, only the distance walked during 6MWT was the independent correlate of elevated TRV (odds ratio=0.85; 95% CI=0.74 to 0.98 p=0.033). The study provides evidence for independent association of TRV with abnormal 6MWT results. The 6-min walk test can be used as noninvasive adjuvant tool for functional capacity assessment of SCD patients with elevated TRV.

UI  - 24558793
TI  - Knowledge, attitude and practice of premarital counseling for sickle cell disease among youth in Yaba, Nigeria.
AB  - Nigeria accounts for 50% of sickle cell disease (SCD) births worldwide and about 2.3% of her population suffers from SCD with 25% of Nigerians being healthy carriers. This study determined the knowledge, attitude and practice of youths in Yaba, Nigeria towards pre-marital genetic counseling. Data was collected using a questionnaire containing both open ended and closed ended questions. The questionnaires (n= 280) were analyzed by frequency counts, percentages and chi-square. The study shows that 80% of youths had knowledge, 86% had positive attitude and 65% had practiced things related to SCD and premarital counseling. There was a significant association between respondents' educational qualification and knowledge, attitude and practices related to SCD and SCD premarital counseling, and between age and attitude and practices related to SCD premarital counseling. In conclusion, public education on the role of premarital genetic counseling should continue and avenues to allow individuals carry out genotype test should still be encouraged.

UI  - 24529619
TI  - Headache and migraine in children with sickle cell disease are associated with lower hemoglobin and higher pain event rates but not silent cerebral infarction.
AB  - Recurrent headaches and migraines are common and undertreated in children with sickle cell disease. Low hemoglobin levels and high pain rates are associated with recurrent headaches and migraines; whereas, silent cerebral infarction is not.

UI  - 24523480
TI  - Neuroimaging abnormalities in adults with sickle cell anemia: associations with cognition.
AB  - Our findings suggest that basal ganglia and thalamus abnormalities may represent a particularly salient contributor to cognitive dysfunction in adults with SCA.

UI  - 24519984
TI  - Risk and resilience factors for grade retention in youth with sickle cell disease.
AB  - These findings suggest the need for interventions that promote connectedness and achievement-orientation in families of youth with SCD. Research is also needed to further explore other possible risk or resilience factors for grade retention in this population, such as school absenteeism.

UI  - 24436121
TI  - A pilot study of electronic directly observed therapy to improve hydroxyurea adherence in pediatric patients with sickle-cell disease.
AB  - This study demonstrates electronic DOT is feasible, acceptable, and can achieve high HU adherence. Further study is needed to confirm that electronic DOT can improve HU adherence and impact clinical outcomes in children with SCD.

UI  - 24329963
TI  - Haemoglobinuria is associated with chronic kidney disease and its progression in patients with sickle cell anaemia.
AB  - To evaluate the association between haemoglobinuria and chronic kidney disease (CKD) in sickle cell anaemia (SCA), we analysed 356 adult haemoglobin SS or S(o) thalassaemia patients from the University of Illinois at Chicago (UIC) and 439 from the multi-centre Walk-Treatment of Pulmonary Hypertension and Sickle Cell Disease with Sildenafil Therapy (Walk-PHaSST) cohort. CKD was classified according to National Kidney Foundation Kidney Disease Outcomes Quality Initiatives guidelines. Haemoglobinuria, defined as positive haem on urine dipstick with absent red blood cells on microscopy, was confirmed by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in a subset of patients. The prevalence of CKD was 58% in the UIC cohort and 54% in the Walk-PHaSST cohort, and haemoglobinuria was observed in 36% and 20% of the patients, respectively. Pathway analysis in both cohorts indicated an independent association of lactate dehydrogenase with haemoglobinuria and, in turn, independent associations of haemoglobinuria and age with CKD (P<00001). After a median of 32months of follow-up in the UIC cohort, haemoglobinuria was associated with progression of CKD [halving of estimated glomerular filtration rate or requirement for dialysis; Hazard ratio (HR) 139, 95% confidence interval (CI) 17-1132, P=00012] and increasing albuminuria (HR 31, 95% CI: 13-77; logrank P=00035). In conclusion haemoglobinuria is common in SCA and is associated with CKD, consistent with a role for intravascular haemolysis in the pathogenesis of renal dysfunction in SCA.

UI  - 24326816
TI  - Asymptomatic bacteriuria among pregnant women with sickle cell trait in Enugu, South Eastern Nigeria.
AB  - The prevalence of ASB in pregnant women with HbAS in Enugu, Nigeria was high and did not vary significantly from that of woman with HbAA. Therefore, pregnant women irrespective of their sickle cell status would benefit from routine screening for ASB.

UI  - 24309610
TI  - Abnormal pulmonary function and associated risk factors in children and adolescents with sickle cell anemia.
AB  - Obstructive and restrictive pulmonary changes develop in children with sickle cell disease, but reports conflict as to the type of change that predominates. We prospectively performed spirometry, plethysmography, and lung diffusing capacity in 146 children aged 7 to 20 years with hemoglobin SS or S(0)-thalassemia. Nineteen percent of the patients had obstructive physiology as defined according to guidelines of the American Thoracic Society. In addition, 9% had restrictive physiology and 11% had abnormal but not categorized physiology. Increasing age, patient-reported or family-reported history of asthma or wheezing, and higher lactate dehydrogenase concentration were independent predictors of obstruction as reflected in lower forced expiratory volume in the first second/forced vital capacity. In conclusion, abnormal pulmonary function, most often obstructive, is common in children with hemoglobin SS and S(0)-thalassemia. Full pulmonary function testing should be performed in children with hemoglobin SS or S(0)-thalassemia, especially with history of asthma or wheezing and accentuated elevations in hemolytic markers.

UI  - 24284096
TI  - Spectral detection of sickle cell anemia and thalassemia.
AB  - Sickle cell disease (SCD) and thalassemia (Thal) are the most common inherited, autosomal, recessive blood disorders which lead to complications such as vasoocclusion and splenomegaly. Patients who suffer from these diseases have poor quality of life and shorter life span. The most common techniques for detection of these diseases are complete blood cell count, followed by electrophoresis and high performance liquid chromatography. In this connection, the results of this paper indicate the potential of a new technique, based on spectral analysis of blood plasma and cellular components, to detect SCD and Thal with accuracy of 90% and above. To the best of our knowledge this would be the first report on spectral pathology of hemoglobinopathy.

UI  - 24276838
TI  - Intravenous magnesium sulfate for vaso-occlusive episodes in sickle cell disease.
AB  - IV MgSO4 was well tolerated but had no effect on the LOS in hospital, pain scores, or cumulative analgesia use in admitted children with a VOE.

UI  - 24169414
TI  - Socio-economic deprivation and risk of emergency readmission and inpatient mortality in people with sickle cell disease in England: observational study.
AB  - SCD patients from the most socio-economically deprived areas and with comorbidities are at highest risk of both SCD readmissions and in-hospital mortality, suggesting that there are inequalities in healthcare access and health outcomes amongst people with SCD.

UI  - 24147086
TI  - Hematological and hemorheological determinants of the six-minute walk test performance in children with sickle cell anemia.
AB  - The six-minute walk test is a well-established submaximal exercise reflecting the functional status and the clinical severity of sickle cell patients. The aim of the present cross-sectional study was to investigate the biological determinants of the six-minute walk test performance in children with sickle cell anemia. Hematological and hemorheological parameters, pulmonary function and the six-minute walk test performance were determined in 42 children with sickle cell anemia at steady state. The performance during the six-minute walk test was normalized for age, sex and height and expressed as percentage of the predicted six-minute walk distance. We showed that a high level of anemia, a low fetal hemoglobin expression and low red blood cell deformability were independent predictors of a low six-minute walk test performance. This study describes for the first time the impact of blood rheology in the six-minute walk test performance in children with sickle cell anemia.

UI  - 24123128
TI  - Parent education and biologic factors influence on cognition in sickle cell anemia.
AB  - Children with sickle cell anemia have a high prevalence of silent cerebral infarcts (SCIs) that are associated with decreased full-scale intelligence quotient (FSIQ). While the educational attainment of parents is a known strong predictor of the cognitive development of children in general, the role of parental education in sickle cell anemia along with other factors that adversely affect cognitive function (anemia, cerebral infarcts) is not known. We tested the hypothesis that both the presence of SCI and parental education would impact FSIQ in children with sickle cell anemia. A multicenter, cross-sectional study was conducted in 19 US sites of the Silent Infarct Transfusion Trial among children with sickle cell anemia, age 5-15 years. All were screened for SCIs. Participants with and without SCI were administered the Wechsler Abbreviated Scale of Intelligence. A total of 150 participants (107 with and 43 without SCIs) were included in the analysis. In a multivariable linear regression model for FSIQ, the absence of college education for the head of household was associated with a decrease of 6.2 points (P = 0.005); presence of SCI with a 5.2 point decrease (P = 0.017); each $1000 of family income per capita with a 0.33 point increase (P = 0.023); each increase of 1 year in age with a 0.96 point decrease (P = 0.023); and each 1% (absolute) decrease in hemoglobin oxygen saturation with 0.75 point decrease (P = 0.030). In conclusion, FSIQ in children with sickle cell anemia is best accounted for by a multivariate model that includes both biologic and socioenvironmental factors.

UI  - 24095588
TI  - Docosahexaenoic and eicosapentaenoic acid supplementation does not exacerbate oxidative stress or intravascular haemolysis in homozygous sickle cell patients.
AB  - We investigated whether or not Omega-3 long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acid (omega-3 LCPUFA) supplementation exacerbates oxidative stress in homozygous sickle cell patients aged 2 to 14 years. Depending on their age, they received between one and three omega-3 (277.8mg DHA and 39.0mg EPA/capsule) or placebo (high oleic acid sunflower seed oil) capsules for one year. Supplementation increased significantly the levels of the two fatty acids in red cell phosphatidylcholine and phosphatidylethanolamine (p<0.001). The patients who received omega-3 LCPUFA compared with their placebo-taking counterparts had a higher concentration of plasma vitamin E at one year (14.32.8 versus 12.32.8mol/l; p<0.001). The two groups had comparable concentrations of the vitamin at six month intervention (10.82.2 versus 10.72.9mol/l; p>0.05) and baseline (10.73.1 versus 10.72.8mol/l; p>0.05). After six month of intervention, the patients on omega 3 fatty acids had lower GPx-1 (33.513.4 versus 46.6 17.6, p<0.01) and Cu/Zn-SOD (1070600 versus 1470690 p<0.05) activities than at baseline. GPx-1 (33.517.6IU/g Hb versus 43.713.2IU/g Hb; p<0.01) and Cu/Zn-SOD (1070600IU/g Hb versus 1360920IU/g Hb; p>0.05) activities were reduced in the omega 3 compared with the placebo at six month intervention. There was no difference in the activity of either of the enzymes between baseline and six month intervention in the placebo group (p>0.05). This study demonstrates; DHA and EPA supplementation, rather than exacerbating the inherent oxidative stress associated with the disease, seems to provide an antioxidant protection. Hence, it will be safe to provide omega-3 LCPUFA to sickle cell patients to help ameliorate vaso-occlusive and haemolytic crises and membrane fatty acid abnormality.

UI  - 24050721
TI  - Right and left ventricular function and myocardial scarring in adult patients with sickle cell disease: a comprehensive magnetic resonance assessment of hepatic and myocardial iron overload.
AB  - Abnormal heart iron levels and myocardial scars are not a common finding in SCD despite increased liver iron overload. The significantly different ventricular function seen in SCD compared to normal suggests the changes in RV and LV function may not be due to the anemia alone. Future studies are necessary to confirm this association.

UI  - 24038960
TI  - PedsQL Multidimensional Fatigue Scale in sickle cell disease: feasibility, reliability, and validity.
AB  - The PedsQL Multidimensional Fatigue Scale demonstrated acceptable to excellent measurement properties in SCD. The results demonstrate the relative severity of fatigue symptoms in pediatric patients with SCD, indicating the potential clinical utility of multidimensional assessment of fatigue in patients with SCD in clinical research and practice.

UI  - 24035168
TI  - Effect of extended-release niacin on serum lipids and on endothelial function in adults with sickle cell anemia and low high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels.
AB  - Through bound apolipoprotein A-I (apoA-I), high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) activates endothelial nitric oxide synthase, inducing vasodilation. Because patients with sickle cell disease (SCD) have low apoA-I and endothelial dysfunction, we conducted a randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled trial to test whether extended-release niacin (niacin-ER) increases apoA-I-containing HDL-C and improves vascular function in SCD. Twenty-seven patients with SCD with levels of HDL-C <39 mg/dl or apoA-I <99 mg/dl were randomized to 12 weeks of niacin-ER, increased in 500-mg increments to a maximum of 1,500 mg/day, or placebo. The primary outcome was the absolute change in HDL-C level after 12 weeks, with endothelial function assessed before and at the end of treatment. Niacin-ER-treated patients trended to greater increase in HDL-C level compared with placebo treatment at 12 weeks (5.1  7.7 vs 0.9  3.8 mg/dl, 1-tailed p = 0.07), associated with significantly greater improvements in the ratios of low-density lipoprotein to HDL-C levels (1.24 vs 1.95, p = 0.003) and apolipoprotein B to apoA-I levels (0.46 vs 0.58, p = 0.03) compared with placebo-treated patients. No improvements were detected in 3 independent vascular physiology assays of endothelial function. Thus, the relatively small changes in HDL-C levels achieved by the dose of niacin-ER used in our study are not associated with improved vascular function in patients with SCD with initially low levels of apoA-I or HDL-C.

UI  - 23999955
TI  - Hydroxyurea is associated with lower costs of care of young children with sickle cell anemia.
AB  - Savings on inpatient care resulted in a significantly lower overall estimated medical care cost for young children with sickle cell anemia who were receiving hydroxyurea compared with those receiving placebo. Because cost savings are likely to increase with age, these data provide additional support for broad use of hydroxyurea treatment in this population.

UI  - 23996496
TI  - Frequent red cell transfusions reduced vascular endothelial activation and thrombogenicity in children with sickle cell anemia and high stroke risk.
AB  - Stroke is one of the most disabling complications of sickle cell anemia (SCA). The molecular mechanisms leading to stroke in SCA or by which packed red blood cell (PRBC) transfusion prevents strokes are not understood. We investigated the effects of PRBC transfusion on serum biomarkers in children with SCA who were at high-risk for stroke. Serum samples from 80 subjects were analyzed, including baseline, study exit time point and 1 year after study exit. Forty of the 80 samples were from subjects randomized to standard care and 40 from transfusion arm. Samples were assayed for levels of BDNF, sVCAM-1, sICAM-1, MPO, Cathepsin-D, PDGF-AA, PDGF-AB/BB, RANTES (CCL5), tPAI-1, and NCAM-1 using antibody immobilized bead assay. Significantly lower mean serum levels of sVCAM-1 (2.2  10(6)  0.8  10(6) pg/mL vs. 3.1  10(6)  0.9  10(6) pg/mL, P < 0.0001), Cathepsin-D (0.5  10(6)  0.1  10(6) pg/mL vs. 0.7  10(6)  0.2  10(6) pg/mL, P < 0.0001), PDGF-AA (10556  4033 pg/mL vs. 14173  4631 pg/mL, P = 0.0008), RANTES (0.1  10(6)  0.07  10(6) pg/mL vs. 0.2  10(6)  0.06  10(6) pg/mL, P < 0.006), and NCAM-1 (0.7  10(6)  0.2  10(6) pg/mL vs. 0.8  10(6)  0.1  10(6) pg/mL, P < 0.0006) were observed among participants who received PRBC transfusion, compared to those who received standard care. Twenty or more PRBC transfusion over 4 years was associated with lower serum levels of sVCAM-1 (P < 0.001), PDGF-AA (P = 0.025), and RANTES (P = 0.048). Low baseline level of BDNF (P = 0.025), sVCAM-1 (P = 0.025), PDGF-AA (P = 0.01), t-PAI-1 (P = 0.025) and sICAM-1 (P = 0.022) was associated with higher probability of stroke free survival. Beyond improving hemoglobin levels, our results suggest that the protective effects of PRBC transfusion on reducing stroke in SCD may result from reduced thrombogenesis and vascular remodeling.

UI  - 23995469
TI  - Reproductive health choices for young adults with sickle cell disease or trait: randomized controlled trial immediate posttest effects.
AB  - Initial efficacy findings are encouraging but warrant planned booster sessions and outcome follow-ups to determine sustained intervention efficacy on reproductive health knowledge, intention, and actual behavior of persons with SCD/SCT.

UI  - 23973010
TI  - A pilot study of eptifibatide for treatment of acute pain episodes in sickle cell disease.
AB  - In this small study, eptifibatide appeared to be safe, but did not improve the times to crisis resolution or hospital discharge. Adequately powered studies are required to evaluate the safety and efficacy of eptifibatide in SCD. Clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00834899.

UI  - 23952263
TI  - Perinatal outcome in sickle cell anemia: a prospective study from India.
AB  - Sickle cell anemia, the homozygous genotype of sickle cell disease is one of the most common heritable diseases in the world. The Arab-Asian haplotype present in India is one of the least severe of all haplotypes. Many sickle cell anemia patients are now leading a symptom-free productive life due to hydroxyurea (HU) and better supportive care. Although pregnancy in sickle cell anemia patients is considered a high-risk category, it perinatal outcome is least studied, particularly among carriers of the Arab-Asian haplotype. Thus, the present prospective, randomized study was performed to assess the perinatal outcome in sickle cell anemia. Neonatal outcome such as low birth weight, perinatal mortality rate, special care newborn unit (SCNU) admission, intrauterine growth retardation (IUGR) and pre term births were significantly higher in sickle cell anemia mothers. Maternal outcome such as severe anemia, preeclampsia, vasoocclusive crisis (VOC), pulmonary complications, jaundice and blood transfusion requirements were significantly higher in sickle cell anemia mothers, which were successfully managed. Cesarian section rate was not significantly different from normal controls. Successful pregnancies were achieved in 84.44% of cases. However, we strongly recommend that pregnancies in these patients should be managed in an institutional setup.

UI  - 23946212
TI  - Efficacy and safety of deferasirox compared with deferoxamine in sickle cell disease: two-year results including pharmacokinetics and concomitant hydroxyurea.
AB  - We report a prospective, randomized, Phase II study of deferasirox and deferoxamine (DFO) in sickle cell disease patients with transfusional iron overload, with all patients continuing on deferasirox after 24 weeks, for up to 2 years. The primary objective was to evaluate deferasirox safety compared with DFO; long-term efficacy and safety of deferasirox was also assessed. We also report, for the first time, the safety and pharmacokinetics of deferasirox in patients concomitantly receiving hydroxyurea. Deferasirox (n = 135) and DFO (n = 68) had comparable safety profiles over 24 weeks. Adverse events (AEs) secondary to drug administration were reported in 26.7% of patients in the deferasirox cohort and 28.6% in the DFO cohort. Gastrointestinal disorders were more common with deferasirox, including diarrhea (10.4% versus 3.6%) and nausea (5.2% versus 3.6%). The most common AE in the DFO group was injection-site pain irritation, which occurred in 7% of patients. Acute renal failure occurred in one patient on deferasirox who was continued on medication despite progressive impairment of renal function parameters. Serum ferritin levels were reduced in both treatment groups. Patients continuing on deferasirox for up to 2 years demonstrated an absolute median serum ferritin decrease of -614 ng/mL (n = 96). Increasing deferasirox dose was associated with improved response and a continued manageable safety profile. Concomitant hydroxyurea administration (n = 28) did not appear to influence the efficacy, safety (including liver and kidney function), and pharmacokinetic parameters of deferasirox.

UI  - 23862300
TI  - A pilot study to evaluate awareness of and attitudes about prenatal and neonatal genetic testing in postpartum African American women.
AB  - Despite professional guidelines that stress the importance of education, counseling, and consent for prenatal and neonatal testing, postpartum women do not recall these conversations.

UI  - 23861242
TI  - Pain and other non-neurological adverse events in children with sickle cell anemia and previous stroke who received hydroxyurea and phlebotomy or chronic transfusions and chelation: results from the SWiTCH clinical trial.
AB  - To compare the non-neurological events in children with sickle cell anemia (SCA) and previous stroke enrolled in SWiTCH. The NHLBI-sponsored Phase III multicenter randomized clinical trial stroke with transfusions changing to hydroxyurea (SWiTCH) (ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00122980) compared continuation of chronic blood transfusion/iron chelation to switching to hydroxyurea/phlebotomy for secondary stroke prevention and management of iron overload. All randomized children were included in the analysis (intention to treat). The Fisher's Exact test was used to compare the frequency of subjects who experienced at least one SCA-related adverse event (AE) or serious adverse event (SAE) in each arm and to compare event rates. One hundred and thirty three subjects, mean age 13  3.9 years (range 5.2-19.0 years) and mean time of 7 years on chronic transfusion at study entry, were randomized and treated. Numbers of subjects experiencing non-neurological AEs were similar in the two treatment arms, including SCA-related events, SCA pain events, and low rates of acute chest syndrome and infection. However, fewer children continuing transfusion/chelation experienced SAEs (P = 0.012), SCA-related SAEs (P = 0.003), and SCA pain SAEs (P = 0.016) as compared to children on the hydroxyurea/phlebotomy arm. The timing of phlebotomy did not influence SAEs. Older age at baseline predicted having at least 1 SCA pain event. Patients with recurrent neurological events during SWiTCH were not more likely to experience pain. In children with SCA and prior stroke, monthly transfusions and daily iron chelation provided superior protection against acute vaso-occlusive pain SAEs when compared to hydroxyurea and monthly phlebotomy.

UI  - 23828223
TI  - A dose-escalation phase IIa study of 2,2-dimethylbutyrate (HQK-1001), an oral fetal globin inducer, in sickle cell disease.
AB  - 2,2-Dimethylbutyrate (HQK-1001), an orally-bioavailable promoter-targeted fetal globin gene-inducing agent, was evaluated in an open-label, randomized dose-escalation study in 52 subjects with hemoglobin SS or S/(0) thalassemia. HQK-1001 was administered daily for 26 weeks at 30 mg/kg (n = 15), 40 mg/kg (n = 18) and 50 mg/kg (n = 19), either alone (n = 21) or with hydroxyurea (n = 31). The most common drug-related adverse events were usually mild or moderate and reversible. Gastritis was graded as severe in three subjects at 40 mg/kg and was considered the dose-limiting toxicity. Subsequently all subjects were switched to the maximum tolerated dose of 30 mg/kg. Due to early discontinuations for blood transfusions, adverse events or non-compliance, only 25 subjects (48%) completed the study. Drug plasma concentrations were sustained above targeted levels at 30 mg/kg. Increases in fetal hemoglobin (Hb F) were observed in 42 subjects (80%), and 12 (23%) had increases 4%. The mean increase in Hb F was 2% [95% confidence interval (CI), 0.8-3.2%] in 21 subjects receiving HQK-1001 alone and 2.7% (95% CI, 1.7-3.8%) in 31 subjects receiving HQK-1001 plus hydroxyurea. Total hemoglobin increased by a mean of 0.65 g/dL (95% CI, 0.5-1.0 g/dL), and 13 subjects (25%) had increases 1 g/dL. Future studies are warranted to evaluate the therapeutic potential of HQK-1001 in sickle cell disease. .

UI  - 23828202
TI  - Liver stiffness increases acutely during sickle cell vaso-occlusive crisis.
AB  - Acute vaso-occlusive crisis (VOC) in sickle cell disease (SCD) is an important cause of end-organ damage. It is estimated that 10-39% of VOC occurs with hepatic involvement. Current assessments of hepatic involvement during VOC are unsatisfactory. We investigated transient elastography (TE) as a marker of hepatic involvement, its relationship with histology, and biochemical markers during VOC. SCD patients were evaluated with biochemical markers and TE at steady-state and during VOC. Change in TE and biochemical markers were correlated with length of hospital stay. When available, liver biopsy and tricuspid regurgitation velocity (TRV) at steady-state were correlated with TE. Twenty-three patients were evaluated (mean age=34.3 years, standard deviation=7.96). In 15 patients with liver biopsies, TE correlated with fibrosis (P=0.01) and TRV (P=0.0063), but not hepatic iron. Hemolysis biomarkers changed during VOC (P<0.022), but not alanine aminotransferase (ALT). Paired comparison of TE at steady-state and during VOC showed an increased from 6.2 to 12.3 kPa (P=0.0029). Increasing TE during VOC associated with increasing ALT and alkaline phosphatase (P=0.0088 and 0.0099, respectively). At steady-state, increasing inflammation on biopsy (P=0.0037) and TRV (P=0.0075) correlated with increasing TE during VOC. Increased hospital stay was associated with higher ALT (P=0.041), lower albumin (P=0.046), hemoglobin/hematocrit (P<0.0021) but not TE. TE may identify patients with hepatic involvement during VOC independent of biochemical measures. Increase in TE may reflect both hepatic passive congestion and hepatic involvement during VOC. TE may serve as a physiological biomarker for hepatic features of VOC.

UI  - 23776145
TI  - Clinically meaningful measurement of pain in children with sickle cell disease.
AB  - The minimal clinical significant improvement was defined for the VAS and NRS and both scales were able to discriminate between important clinical findings including pain relief, need for pain medication, and treatment satisfaction. Collectively, this study provides data to improve our understanding of pain ratings of pediatric patients with SCD.

UI  - 23735165
TI  - Intellectual function evaluation of first generation immigrant children with sickle cell disease: the role of language and sociodemographic factors.
AB  - Immigrant bilingual children with SCD seem to display a rate of cognitive impairment similar to their monolingual counterparts but a more pronounced and precocious onset of language difficulties. Adjunctive tests need to be considered in this group of patients to better define their specific deficits.

UI  - 23713628
TI  - The association between tricuspid regurgitation velocity and 5-year survival in a North West London population of patients with sickle cell disease in the United Kingdom.
AB  - Raised tricuspid regurgitant velocity (TRV) occurs in approximately 30% of adults with sickle cell disease (SCD), and has been shown to be an independent risk factor for death. TRV was assessed in 164 SCD patients who were subsequently followed up for survival. Raised pulmonary pressures were defined as a TRV jet 2.5 m/s on echocardiography. Elevated TRV was present in 29.1% of patients and it was associated with increased age and left atrial diameter. There were 15 deaths (9.1%) over a median of 68.1 months follow up; seven patients had increased TRV, and eight patients had a TRV<2.5 m/s. Higher TRV values were associated with a greater than 4-fold increased risk of death (Hazard Ratio: 4.48, 99% confidence interval 1.01-19.8), although we found a lower overall mortality rate than has been reported in previous studies. TRV was not an independent risk factor for death. We have confirmed the association between raised TRV and mortality in a UK SCD population whose disease severity appears to be less than that reported in previous studies. Further prospective studies are needed to more clearly characterize which patient factors modify survival in SCD patients with raised TRV.

UI  - 23681054
TI  - Environmental tobacco smoke and airway obstruction in children with sickle cell anemia.
AB  - ETS exposure is associated with evidence of lower airway obstruction and increased respiratory symptoms in SCA.

UI  - 23677903
TI  - Association between baseline fetal hemoglobin levels and incidence of severe vaso-occlusive pain episodes in children with sickle cell anemia.
AB  - The ameliorating effect of high fetal hemoglobin (HbF) levels on the incidence of pain episodes in sickle cell anemia (SCA) is well-known; however, in children this relationship is less clearly established. We hypothesized that higher HbF levels in children with SCA are associated with fewer severe pain episodes. A meta-analysis of data from the Silent Infarct Transfusion Trial (n=456) and the Cooperative Study of Sickle Cell Disease (n=764), demonstrated that baseline HbF levels were associated with the incidence of severe pain, commonly defined across studies as an event requiring hospitalization (P-value=0.02).

UI  - 23657867
TI  - Human bulbar conjunctival hemodynamics in hemoglobin SS and SC disease.
AB  - The known biophysical variations of hemoglobin (Hb) S and Hb C may result in hemodynamic differences between subjects with SS and SC disease. The purpose of this study was to measure and compare conjunctival hemodynamics between subjects with Hb SS and SC hemoglobinopathies. Image sequences of the conjunctival microcirculation were acquired in 9 healthy control subjects (Hb AA), 24 subjects with SC disease, and 18 subjects with SS disease, using a prototype imaging system. Diameter (D) and blood velocity (V) measurements were obtained in multiple venules of each subject. Data were categorized according to venule caliber by averaging V and D for venules with diameters less than (vessel size 1) or greater than (vessel size 2) 15 m. V in vessel size 2 was significantly greater than V in vessel size 1 in the AA and SS groups (P  0.009), but not in the SC group (P = 0.1). V was significantly lower in the SC group as compared to the SS group (P = 0.03). In AA and SS groups, V correlated with D (P  0.005), but the correlation was not statistically significant in the SC group (P = 0.08). V was inversely correlated with hematocrit in the SS group for large vessels (P = 0.03); however, no significant correlation was found in the SC group (P  0.2). Quantitative assessment of conjunctival microvascular hemodynamics in SS and SC disease may advance understanding of sickle cell disease pathophysiology and thereby improve therapeutic interventions.

UI  - 23645695
TI  - A randomized, placebo-controlled trial of arginine therapy for the treatment of children with sickle cell disease hospitalized with vaso-occlusive pain episodes.
AB  - Painful episodes of vaso-occlusion are the leading cause of hospitalizations and emergency department visits in sickle cell disease, and are associated with increased mortality. Low nitric oxide bioavailability contributes to vasculopathy in sickle cell disease. Since arginine is the obligate substrate for nitric oxide production, and an acute deficiency is associated with pain, we hypothesized that arginine may be a beneficial treatment for pain related to sickle cell disease. Thirty-eight children with sickle cell disease hospitalized for 56 episodes of pain were randomized into this double-blinded placebo-controlled trial. Patients received L-arginine (100 mg/kg tid) or placebo for 5 days or until discharge. A significant reduction in total parenteral opioid use by 54% (1.9  2.0 mg/kg versus 4.1  4.1 mg/kg, P=0.02) and lower pain scores at discharge (1.9  2.4 versus 3.9  2.9, P=0.01) were observed in the treatment arm compared to the placebo one. There was no significant difference in hospital length of stay (4.1  01.8 versus 4.8  2.5 days, P=0.34), although a trend favored the arginine arm, and total opioid use was strongly correlated with the duration of the admission (r=0.86, P<0.0001). No drug-related adverse events were observed. Arginine therapy represents a novel intervention for painful vaso-occlusive episodes. A reduction of narcotic use by >50% is remarkable. Arginine is a safe and inexpensive intervention with narcotic-sparing effects that may be a beneficial adjunct to standard therapy for sickle cell-related pain in children. A large multi-center trial is warranted in order to confirm these observations.

UI  - 23637037
TI  - Sickle cell disease related mortality in the United States (1999-2009).
AB  - Mortality during childhood has decreased significantly. However, the transition period from pediatric to adult care is critical. Risk-reduction, monitoring, and early treatment intervention of cardiovascular disease in adults is warranted.

UI  - 23633232
TI  - Acute care of pediatric patients with sickle cell disease: a simulation performance assessment.
AB  - Mannequin-based simulation is a novel method for teaching pediatric residents SCD-specific acute care skills. The assessment provided reliable and valid measures of trainees' performance. Further studies are needed to determine simulation's utility in education and evaluation.

UI  - 23625812
TI  - Transcranial Doppler velocity and brain MRI/MRA changes in children with sickle cell anemia on chronic transfusions to prevent primary stroke.
AB  - For children with SCA and abnormal TCD velocities, transfusions lower TCD velocities and help prevent stroke, but do not always result in normal velocities or protect against progression of cerebral vasculopathy. Improved adherence to transfusion goals may improve on-treatment TCD velocities.

UI  - 23620965
TI  - Homozygous sickle cell disease in Uganda and Jamaica a comparison of Bantu and Benin haplotypes.
AB  - The haematological and clinical features of the Bantu haplotype in Uganda were broadly similar to the Benin haplotype in Jamaica except for less leg ulceration and priapism and possibly greater haemolysis among Ugandan subjects. Anaemic episodes in Uganda were treated empirically by transfusion often without a clear diagnosis; better documentation including reticulocyte counts and observations on spleen size is necessary to evolve appropriate models of care.

UI  - 23612380
TI  - Barriers to hematopoietic cell transplantation clinical trial participation of african american and black youth with sickle cell disease and their parents.
AB  - African Americans and Blacks have low participation rates in clinical trials and reduced access to aggressive medical therapies. Hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) is a high-risk but potentially curative therapy for sickle cell disease (SCD), a disorder predominantly seen in African Americans. We conducted focus groups to better understand participation barriers to HCT clinical trials for SCD. Nine focus groups of youth with SCD (n=10) and parents (n=41) were conducted at 3 sites representing the Midwest, South Atlantic, and West South Central US. Main barriers to clinical trial participation included gaps in knowledge about SCD, limited access to SCD/HCT trial information, and mistrust of medical professionals. For education about SCD/HCT trials, participants highly preferred one-on-one interactions with medical professionals and electronic media as a supplement. Providers can engage with sickle cell camps to provide information on SCD/HCT clinical trials to youth and local health fairs for parents/families. Youth reported learning about SCD through computer games; investigators may find this medium useful for clinical trial/HCT education. African Americans affected by SCD face unique barriers to clinical trial participation and have unmet HCT clinical studies education needs. Greater recognition of these barriers will allow targeted interventions in this community to increase their access to HCT.

UI  - 23606168
TI  - Genetic modifiers of sickle cell anemia in the BABY HUG cohort: influence on laboratory and clinical phenotypes.
AB  - The recently completed BABY HUG trial investigated the safety and efficacy of hydroxyurea in infants with sickle cell anemia (SCA). To investigate the effects of known genetic modifiers, genomic DNA on 190 randomized subjects were analyzed for alpha thalassemia, beta-globin haplotype, polymorphisms affecting endogenous fetal hemoglobin (HbF) levels (XmnI, BCL11A, and HBS1L-MYB), UGT1A1 promoter polymorphisms, and the common G6PD A(-) mutation. At study entry, infants with alpha thalassemia trait had significantly lower mean corpuscular volume, total bilirubin, and absolute reticulocyte count. Beta-globin haplotypes associated with milder disease had significantly higher hemoglobin and %HbF. BCL11A and XmnI polymorphisms had significant effects on baseline HbF, while UGT1A1 promoter polymorphisms significantly influenced baseline serum bilirubin. At study exit, subjects randomized to placebo still exhibited laboratory effects of alpha thalassemia and other modifiers, while those assigned hydroxyurea had treatment effects that exceeded most genetic influences. The pain phenotype was influenced by HbF modifiers in both treatment groups. These data document that genetic polymorphisms do modify laboratory and clinical phenotypes even in very young patients with SCA. The hydroxyurea effects are more potent, however, indicating that treatment criteria should not be limited to certain genetic subsets, and supporting the use of hydroxyurea for all young patients with SCA.

UI  - 23590693
TI  - The effect of hydroxcarbamide therapy on survival of children with sickle cell disease.
AB  - Although evidence is accumulating that hydroxycarbamide decreases mortality among adults with sickle cell disease (SCD), there are no published data regarding the effect of hydroxycarbamide on mortality among children. The Paediatric Hydroxycarbamide Program was established to treat children with SCD aged 3-18years if they met disease severity criteria. Mortality data and clinical/laboratorial effects of hydroxycarbamide were retrospectively collected for the first 9years of the Program. Mortality among those who received hydroxycarbamide was compared to that of untreated children. Among 1760 subjects, 267 received hydroxycarbamide at a median dose of 208mg/kg/d (range 10-32) for a median of 2years (range 01-65). Survival among hydroxycarbamide-treated children was significantly greater than that among untreated ones (995% vs. 945%, P=001), due primarily to fewer deaths from acute chest syndrome and infection. Hydroxycarbamide therapy was significantly associated with increases in haemoglobin concentration, fetal haemoglobin, mean corpuscular volume, and reduction in platelet counts, reticulocytes and neutrophils. Toxicity was minimal and predominantly mild reversible neutropenia. Significantly fewer hospitalizations and emergency room visits, and shorter admissions were observed among hydroxycarbamide-treated subjects, when compared to the 12-month period prior to treatment initiation. Hydroxycarbamide therapy reduces disease severity and is probably associated with decreased mortality among children with SCD.

UI  - 23539110
TI  - IMPROVE trial: a randomized controlled trial of patient-controlled analgesia for sickle cell painful episodes: rationale, design challenges, initial experience, and recommendations for future studies.
AB  - A complex randomized analgesic trial was initiated within a multisite disease network seeking to provide an evidence base for clinical care. A number of design considerations were shown to be feasible in this setting, and several pain intensity and pain interference measures were shown to be sensitive to time- and treatment-related improvements. While the premature closure and small sample size precluded definitive conclusions regarding treatment efficacy, this trial furnishes a template for design and implementation considerations that should improve future SCD analgesic trials.

UI  - 23538327
TI  - Evaluation of H3 histone methylation and colony formation in erythroid progenitors treated with thalidomide and sodium butyrate.
AB  - Thalidomide shows superiority to sodium butyrate as a hypomethylating agent in this cell culture study, and it has the potential to become conventional treatment for sickle cell disease and -thalassemia.

UI  - 23527666
TI  - Pilot study of human recombinant hyaluronidase-enhanced subcutaneous hydration and opioid administration for sickle cell disease acute pain episodes.
AB  - The objective of this study was to determine the feasibility of protocol-driven human recombinant hyaluronidase (rHuPH20)-enhanced subcutaneous (SC) hydration and opioid administration in adults presenting to the emergency department (ED) with sickle cell disease acute pain episodes (SCDAPE). Adults with SCDAPE were given 150 U of rHuPH20 and normal saline subcutaneously. Opioids were administered SC every 15 minutes for 4 hours until numerical rating scale (NRS) pain intensity scores fell to <5, or Ramsay Sedation Scores were >4. Pain intensity and pain relief were recorded hourly. Total morphine equivalents and fluid volume, total pain relief (TOTPAR), patient- and physician-perceived global efficacy, patient-perceived global SC needle discomfort, physician-rated ease of needle placement, and adverse effects were noted. Ten patients (6 males, 4 females), mean age 32.9 years (23-56 years) completed the trial. Mean pain intensity scores fell 25% (from 9.2 to 6.9) from baseline and mean 4-hour TOTPAR score was 4 (maximum: 16). A mean total of 119 mg (70-170 mg) morphine equivalents and 846 mL (200-1650 mL) normal saline were administered. Mean patient and physician global perceived efficacy ratings were 3.4 and 4.2 (of 5). Patient global discomfort of SC needle presence was 2.7 (of 10), and ease of needle placement was physician rated at 4 (of 4; easiest). Patients experienced mild swelling and stinging at the SC site, and no infusion required discontinuation. The authors conclude that rHuPH20-enhanced subcutaneous hydration and opioid administration appear feasible from this pilot study. These results need confirmation in a controlled clinical trial.

UI  - 23516012
TI  - [Evaluation of erythrocyte deformability in subjects with sickle cell trait during a soccer game: effect of hydration ad libitum].
AB  - This study compared erythrocyte changes between a group of subjects with sickle cell trait (SCT) and controls (subjects without hemoglobinopathy) during a soccer game in two conditions: with and without hydration. Erythrocyte deformability of subjects was assessed by the coefficient of erythrocyte rigidity (Tk) which was calculated before and after football match. Our results showed a significant increase in erythrocyte rigidity (Tk) in SCT at the end of physical activities without hydration; however when water was provided ad libitum their Tk decreased significantly, reaching values of controls. And adequate hydration is recommended in subjects with sickle cell trait during and after exercise.

UI  - 23508932
TI  - Alloimmunization in sickle cell anemia in the era of extended red cell typing.
AB  - Despite extended RBC typing, alloimmunization may still occur due to RBC variants that are not detected on routine screening and transfusions at institutions where extended RBC typing is not done. Extended RBC typing should be the standard of care for patients with SCD. Prospective genotyping may reduce allosensitization to rare variants not detected on routine screening.

UI  - 23489171
TI  - Optimizing Hydroxyurea use in children with sickle cell disease: low dose regimen is effective.
AB  - In SCD patients, low-dose regimen of HU is a feasible option that ensured safety and yet did not affect efficacy.

UI  - 23460681
TI  - Weight status of children with sickle cell disease.
AB  - Nearly one-quarter of children and adolescents with SCD in New England are overweight or obese. Longitudinal studies are needed to determine the impact of elevated BMI on the morbidity and mortality of both children and adults with SCD.

UI  - 23441057
TI  - PedsQL sickle cell disease module: feasibility, reliability, and validity.
AB  - The PedsQL SCD Module demonstrated acceptable measurement properties. The PedsQL SCD Module may be utilized in the evaluation of SCD-specific health-related quality of life in clinical research and practice. In conjunction with the PedsQL Generic Core Scales and the PedsQL Multidimensional Fatigue Scale, the PedsQL SCD Module will facilitate the understanding of the health and well-being of children with SCD.

UI  - 23422753
TI  - Genetic mapping and exome sequencing identify 2 mutations associated with stroke protection in pediatric patients with sickle cell anemia.
AB  - Stroke is a devastating complication of sickle cell anemia (SCA), occurring in 11% of patients before age 20 years. Previous studies of sibling pairs have demonstrated a genetic component to the development of cerebrovascular disease in SCA, but few candidate genetic modifiers have been validated as having a substantial effect on stroke risk. We performed an unbiased whole-genome search for genetic modifiers of stroke risk in SCA. Genome-wide association studies were performed using genotype data from single-nucleotide polymorphism arrays, whereas a pooled DNA approach was used to perform whole-exome sequencing. In combination, 22 nonsynonymous variants were identified and represent key candidates for further in-depth study. To validate the association of these mutations with the risk for stroke, the 22 candidate variants were genotyped in an independent cohort of control patients (n = 231) and patients with stroke (n = 57) with SCA. One mutation in GOLGB1 (Y1212C) and another mutation in ENPP1 (K173Q) were confirmed as having significant associations with a decreased risk for stroke. These mutations were discovered and validated by an unbiased whole-genome approach, and future studies will focus on how these functional mutations may lead to protection from stroke in the context of SCA.

UI  - 23418000
TI  - Exploring barriers and facilitators to clinical trial enrollment in the context of sickle cell anemia and hydroxyurea.
AB  - Engagement of parents/guardians of children with SCD in identifying barriers and facilitators to clinical trial enrollment may be critical to the development of strategies to enhance SCD trial completion.

UI  - 23416852
TI  - Long-term outcome and evaluation of organ function in pediatric patients undergoing haploidentical and matched related hematopoietic cell transplantation for sickle cell disease.
AB  - HLA-matched related donor (MRD) hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) is a well-established therapy for patients with sickle cell disease (SCD); however, experience using alternative donors, including haploidentical donors, in HSCT for SCD is limited. We report the long-term outcomes of 22 pediatric patients who underwent related donor HSCT for SCD at St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, either a myeloablative sibling MRD HSCT (n= 14) or reduced-intensity parental haploidentical donor HSCT (n= 8). The median patient age was 11.0  3.9 years in the MRD graft recipients and 9.0  5.0 years in the haploidentical donor graft recipients. The median follow-up was 9.0  2.3 years, with an overall survival (OS) of 93% and a recurrence/graft failure rate of 0%, for the MRD cohort and 7.4  2.4 years, with an OS of 75%, disease-free survival of 38%, and disease recurrence of 38%, for the haploidentical donor cohort. We report the long-term hematologic response and organ function in patients undergoing MRD or haploidentical donor HSCT for severe SCD. Our data demonstrate long-term hematologic improvements after HSCT with sustained engraftment, and confirm that HSCT offers long-term protection from common complications of SCD, including stroke, pulmonary hypertension, acute chest, and nephropathy, regardless of donor source.

UI  - 23414938
TI  - A double-blind, randomized, multicenter phase 2 study of prasugrel versus placebo in adult patients with sickle cell disease.
AB  - Despite the small size and short duration of this study, there was a decrease in platelet activation biomarkers and a trend toward decreased pain.

UI  - 23409025
TI  - Candidate sequence variants and fetal hemoglobin in children with sickle cell disease treated with hydroxyurea.
AB  - These findings clarify the overlap between baseline and hydroxyurea-induced fetal hemoglobin levels in pediatric disease. Studies assessing influences of specific sequence variants in these and other genetic loci in larger populations and in unusual hydroxyurea responders are needed to further understand the maintenance and therapeutic induction of fetal hemoglobin in pediatric sickle cell disease.

UI  - 23406172
TI  - Genetic determinants of haemolysis in sickle cell anaemia.
AB  - Haemolytic anaemia is variable among patients with sickle cell anaemia and can be estimated by reticulocyte count, lactate dehydrogenase, aspartate aminotransferase and bilirubin levels. Using principal component analysis of these measurements we computed a haemolytic score that we used as a subphenotype in a genome-wide association study. We identified in one cohort and replicated in two additional cohorts the association of a single nucleotide polymorphism in NPRL3 (rs7203560; chr16p133) (P=60410(-07) ). This association was validated by targeted genotyping in a fourth independent cohort. The HBA1/HBA2 regulatory elements, hypersensitive sites (HS)-33, HS-40 and HS-48 are located in introns of NPRL3. Rs7203560 was in perfect linkage disequilibrium (LD) with rs9926112 (r(2) =1) and in strong LD with rs7197554 (r(2) =075) and rs13336641 (r(2) =077); the latter is located between HS-33 and HS-40 sites and next to a CTCF binding site. The minor allele for rs7203560 was associated with the -(37) thalassaemia gene deletion. When adjusting for HbF and  thalassaemia, the association of NPRL3 with the haemolytic score was significant (P=000375) and remained significant when examining only cases without gene deletion thalassaemia (P=002463). Perhaps by independently down-regulating expression of the HBA1/HBA2 genes, variants of the HBA1/HBA2 gene regulatory loci, tagged by rs7203560, reduce haemolysis in sickle cell anaemia.

UI  - 23377438
TI  - Sickle cell vaso-occlusion causes activation of iNKT cells that is decreased by the adenosine A2A receptor agonist regadenoson.
AB  - Adenosine A2A receptor (A2AR) agonists reduce invariant natural killer T (iNKT) cell activation and decrease inflammation in sickle cell disease (SCD) mice. We conducted a phase 1 trial of the A2AR agonist regadenoson in adults with SCD. The target dose was 1.44 g/kg/h. iNKT cell activation was evaluated using antibodies targeting the p65 subunit of nuclear factor-B (phospho-NF-B p65), interferon- (IFN-), and A2AR. Regadenoson was administered to 27 adults with SCD. We examined 21 patients at steady state and 6 during painful vaso-occlusive crises (pVOC). iNKT cell activation was also measured in 14 African-American controls. During pVOC, the fraction of iNKT cells demonstrating increased phospho-NF-B p65 and A2AR expression was significantly higher compared with controls (P < .01) and steady-state patients (P < .05). IFN- expression was also significantly higher compared with controls (P = .02). After a 24-hour infusion of regadenoson during pVOC, phospho-NF-B p65 activation in iNKT cells decreased compared to baseline by a median of 48% (P = .03) to levels similar to controls and steady-state SCD. No toxicities were identified. Infusional regadenoson administered to adults with SCD at 1.44 g/kg/h during pVOC decreases activation of iNKT cells without toxicity.

UI  - 23356250
TI  - Influence of lime juice on the severity of sickle cell anemia.
AB  - Regular intake of lime juice may be of great therapeutic and nutritional relevance in children with SCA.

UI  - 23352054
TI  - The Transfusion Alternatives Preoperatively in Sickle Cell Disease (TAPS) study: a randomised, controlled, multicentre clinical trial.
AB  - NHS Blood and Transplant.

UI  - 23342819
TI  - Sickle cell disease patients' perceptions of emergency department pain management.
AB  - Patients with sickle cell disease (SCD) experience painful crises that often require admission to the emergency department (ED) for pain management. Factors such as ED overcrowding and negative perception and stigmatization of SCD may impact patients' perceptions of the quality of pain management in the ED. Data from a multisite prospective cohort study was assessed to determine whether demographic (age and sex), clinical (time to administration of initial analgesia, number of analgesic doses, discharge disposition, and clinical site), or interpersonal factors (separately measured perceptions of being treated with trust and respect by ED triage nurses, nurses, and physicians) were associated with patient ratings of their pain management in the ED. Patients were adults with SCD seen at 3 EDs (2 urban and 1 rural). Demographic and clinical information was derived from medical record review; interpersonal and ED pain management ratings were derived from interviews conducted 1 week post ED visit. A total of 209 interviews by 98 patients were analyzed. Results indicated significant differences among the ED sites on the demographic, clinical, and interpersonal factors. Overall, patients reported being treated with trust and respect by ED clinicians. Adjusted logistic regression analyses indicated that ED clinical site 1 (odds ratio [OR], 10.42; 95% confidence interval [Cl], 1.44-7.36) and being treated with trust and respect by the ED physician (OR, 25.53; 95% CI, 2.07-314.96) predicted good ED pain management ratings. Interpersonal health care experiences may be an important indicator of patient satisfaction and quality of care received by patients with SCD in the ED.

UI  - 23303999
TI  - Sickle cell disease (SCD), iNKT cells, and regadenoson infusion.
AB  - A humanized murine sickle cell-disease (SCD) model (NY1DD) has been used to study ischemia/reperfusion injury (IRI) in sickle cell anemia, and iNKT cells (a very small subset of murine and human T cells) have been found to instigate such injury in this model. Furthermore, levels of activated iNKT cells are generally elevated in the circulation of patients with SCD. Because activated iNKT cells are rich in adenosine A2A receptors which, when agonized, down-regulate the inflammatory cytokine expression that characterizes the cells, we have conducted a phase 1 trial of a constant infusion of low-dose regadenoson (an adenosine analogue with high A2A receptor specificity) to determine its safety and the capacity of a safe dose to down-regulate circulating iNKT cells in patients with SCD. We have found two dose rates that are both safe and effective and now plan a controlled Phase 2B clinical trial to determine whether our highest dose, administered as a 48-hour constant infusion, will induce faster remission in both painful vaso-occlusive crisis (pVOC) and acute chest syndrome (ACS).

UI  - 23296434
TI  - Developmental function in toddlers with sickle cell anemia.
AB  - Whereas overall functioning was in the normal range, behavioral and adaptive function was poorer with older age, even in this very young group of children. Explanatory mechanisms for this association between poorer developmental function and older age need to be identified.

UI  - 23293942
TI  - How I manage priapism due to sickle cell disease.
AB  - Priapism due to sickle cell disease is a common but less well characterized complication of the disorder. It represents a "medical emergency" with the key determinant of outcome being the duration of penile ischaemia and time to detumescence of <4 h associated with a successful treatment outcome. Management can be outpatient-based and consists of pre-emptive strategies for early stuttering attacks based on prior health education of the association between the 2 disorders, non pharmacological management, outpatient penile aspiration and irrigation with or without instillation of alpha and beta adrenergic agonists for acute episodes and secondary prophylaxis to prevent the high rates of recurrences. The evidence to recommend medical prophylaxis is sparse but based on a consensus of experts and small phase 2 or III clinical trials. A clearer understanding of the molecular mechanism(s) involving normal and dysregulated erectile physiology, scavenger haemolysis and nitric oxide pathway paves way for the use of phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitors in medical prophylaxis of stuttering attacks. These agents will need to be studied in multi-centre randomized phase III trials before they become standard of care. A multidisciplinary team approach is required to enhance "sexual wellness" and prevent erectile dysfunction in this sexually vulnerable group.

UI  - 23278176
TI  - Antioxidant vitamins C and E supplementation increases markers of haemolysis in sickle cell anaemia patients: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - Erythrocytes from sickle cell anaemia (SCA) patients continuously produce larger amounts of pro-oxidants than normal cells. Oxidative stress seems to primarily affect the membrane and results in haemolysis. The use of antioxidants in vitro reduces the generation of pro-oxidants. To evaluate the impact of vitamins C (VitC) and E (VitE) supplementation in SCA patients, patients over 18 years were randomly assigned to receive VitC 1400 mg + VitE 800 mg per day or placebo orally for 180 d. Eighty-three patients were enrolled (44 vitamins, 39 placebo), median age 27 (18-68) years, 64% female. There were no significant differences between the two groups regarding clinical complications or baseline laboratorial tests. Sixty percent of the patients were VitC deficient, 70% were VitE deficient. Supplementation significantly increased serum VitC and E. However, no significant changes in haemoglobin levels were observed, and, unexpectedly, there was a significant increase in haemolytic markers with vitamin supplementation. In conclusion, VitC + VitE supplementation did not improve anaemia and, surprisingly, increased markers of haemolysis in patients with SCA and S-(0) -thalassaemia. The exact mechanisms to explain this findings and their clinical significance remain to be determined.

UI  - 23255310
TI  - Hydroxyurea treatment decreases glomerular hyperfiltration in children with sickle cell anemia.
AB  - Glomerular hyperfiltration and microalbuminuria/proteinuria are early manifestations of sickle nephropathy. The effects of hydroxyurea therapy on these renal manifestations of sickle cell anemia (SCA) are not well defined. Our objective was to investigate the effects of hydroxyurea on glomerular filtration rate (GFR) measured by (99m)Tc-DTPA clearance, and on microalbuminuria/proteinuria in children with SCA. Hydroxyurea study of long-term effects (HUSTLE) is a prospective study (NCT00305175) with the goal of describing the long-term cellular, molecular, and clinical effects of hydroxyurea therapy in SCA. Glomerular filtration rate, urine microalbumin, and serum cystatin C were measured before initiating hydroxyurea therapy and then repeated after 3 years. Baseline and Year 3 values for HUSTLE subjects were compared using the Wilcoxon Signed Rank test. Associations between continuous variables were evaluated using Spearman correlation coefficient. Twenty-three children with SCA (median age 7.5 years, range, 2.5-14.0 years) received hydroxyurea at maximum tolerated dose (MTD, 24.4  4.5 mg/kg/day, range, 15.3-30.6 mg/kg/day). After 3 years of treatment, GFR measured by (99m)Tc-DTPA decreased significantly from 167  46 mL/min/1.73 m to 145  27 mL/min/1.73 m (P = 0.016). This decrease in GFR was significantly associated with increase in fetal hemoglobin (P = 0.042) and decrease in lactate dehydrogenase levels (P = 0.035). Urine microalbumin and cystatin C levels did not change significantly. Hydroxyurea at MTD is associated with a decrease in hyperfiltration in young children with SCA.

UI  - 23253664
TI  - Effect of propranolol as antiadhesive therapy in sickle cell disease.
AB  - Sickle red blood cells (SSRBCs) adhere to both endothelial cells (ECs) and the extracellular matrix. Epinephrine elevates cyclic adenosine monophosphate in SSRBCs and increases adhesion of SSRBCs to ECs in a -adrenergic receptor and protein kinase A-dependent manner. Studies in vitro as well as in vivo have suggested that adrenergic stimuli like epinephrine may contribute to vaso-occlusion associated with physiologic stress. We conducted both animal studies and a Phase I dose-escalation study in sickle cell disease (SCD) patients to investigate whether systemically administered propranolol inhibits SSRBC adhesion and to document the safety of propranolol in SCD. Systemically administered propranolol prevented SSRBC adhesion and associated vaso-occlusion in a mouse model. In patients receiving a single oral dose of 10, 20, or 40 mg propranolol, SSRBC adhesion to ECs was studied before and after propranolol, with and without stimulation with epinephrine. Propranolol administration significantly reduced epinephrine-stimulated SSRBC adhesion in a dose dependent manner (p = 0.03), with maximum inhibition achieved at 40 mg. Adverse events were not severe, did not show dose dependence, and were likely unrelated to drug. No significant heart rate changes occurred. These results imply that -blockers may have a role as antiadhesive therapy for SCD.

UI  - 23193009
TI  - Effect of omega-3 (n-3) fatty acid supplementation in patients with sickle cell anemia: randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - The findings of this trial, which need to be verified in a large multicenter study, suggest that omega-3 fatty acids can be an effective, safe, and affordable therapy for sickle cell anemia. This trial was registered with Current Controlled Trials as ISRCTN80844630.

UI  - 23176402
TI  - Patients with sickle cell anemia on simple chronic transfusion protocol show sex differences for hemodynamic and hematologic responses to transfusion.
AB  - In our sample population, males exhibit a paradoxical reduction in oxygen delivery in response to transfusion because the increase in vascular resistance is larger than the increase in oxygen capacity. This may result from an inability to adequately suppress their HbS% between transfusion cycles.

UI  - 23171128
TI  - A phase 1 study of prasugrel in patients with sickle cell disease: pharmacokinetics and effects on ex vivo platelet reactivity.
AB  - Results demonstrate that in response to prasugrel, patients with SCD and healthy subjects have similar degrees of platelet inhibition and exposure to Pras-AM, and provide a basis for further study of prasugrel in patients with SCD.

UI  - 23168877
TI  - Evaluation of microalbuminuria in relation to asymptomatic bacteruria in Nigerian patients with sickle cell anemia.
AB  - Studies have identified microalbuminuria (MA) and asymptomatic bacteruria (ASB) as co-morbid factors in sickle cell anemia (SCA). However, the relationship between these comorbid factors remains unclear and data are lacking for Nigerian patients. This study determined the prevalence of MA and ASB in a cohort of patients with SCA in a steady state, in Lagos, Nigeria. Early morning mid-stream urine samples were collected in sterile bottles from 103 patients comprising 48 males and 55 females with a mean age of 10.4 years. Aerobic culture and colony count of organisms was done using conventional methods. Serum creatinine and hematological indices, including irreversibly sickled cells (ISC), were also assayed. Of the 103 urine samples screened, 23 (22.3%) had albuminuria (ALB), and consisted of nine males and 14 females (P > 0.05); 16.5% of the cases had MA (P <0.05). Age at onset of MA was seven years, and children accounted for 23.5% of all cases with ALB (P >0.05). The prevalence of confirmed ASB was 14.6%, with females accounting for 14 of 19 probable ASB cases (P <0.05). Univariate regression analysis demonstrated a significant (P <0.05) association between age at onset of MA, hemoglobin level, reticulocyte count, ISC and occurrence of ASB, but with only ISC evolving as an independent predictor. Twenty-eight bacterial isolates predominated by Escherichia coli (39.3%; P <0.05), of whom 89.3% were multi-drug resistant, were recovered from the ASB urine samples. In conclusion, both MA and ASB are common in Nigerian SCA patients, with the former occurring from the first decade of life.

UI  - 23123915
TI  - Comparison of hematologic measurements between local and central laboratories: data from the BABY HUG trial.
AB  - Overnight shipping with processing delay causes spurious reductions in absolute neutrophil count (ANC) and absolute monocyte count (AMC) that may result in incorrect monitoring decisions in multicenter clinical trials.

UI  - 23115062
TI  - Patients with sickle cell disease have increased sensitivity to cold and heat.
AB  - Sickle cell disease (SCD) pain is associated with colder temperatures and touch and described as "cold," "hot," and "shooting" suggesting hypersensitivity to tactile stimuli. Sickle mice exhibit hypersensitivity to thermal (cold, heat) and mechanical stimuli compared to controls. It is unknown whether humans experience this same hypersensitivity. Thus, we quantified thermal and mechanical sensitivity differences between patients with SCD and controls. Our primary hypothesis was that patients with SCD will exhibit hypersensitivity to thermal and mechanical stimuli compared to race-matched controls. Our secondary hypothesis was this hypersensitivity will be associated with older and female subjects, and with frequent pain and hemolysis in patients with SCD. A total of 55 patients and 57 controls 7 years completed quantitative sensory testing. Patients with SCD detected the sensation of cold and warm temperatures sooner as seen in their significantly lower median cold and heat detection thresholds [29.5C vs. 28.6C, P = 0.012 and 34.5C vs. 35.3C, P = 0.02] and experienced cold and heat pain sooner as seen in their significantly lower median cold and heat pain thresholds [21.1C vs. 14.8C, P = 0.01 and 42.7C vs. 45.2C, P = 0.04]. We found no mechanical threshold differences. Older age was associated with lower cold, heat, and mechanical pain thresholds in both groups. No association with pain, gender, or hemolysis was found. Patients with SCD exhibit hypersensitivity to thermal stimuli suggesting peripheral or central sensitization may exist and could contribute to SCD pain.

UI  - 23066365
TI  - Stability of polysomnography for one year and longer in children with sickle cell disease.
AB  - In the absence of acute SCD complications, overnight PSG usually remains stable or improves over a 12- to 30-month period. Only 6.7% subjects, or fewer, had AHI on a subsequent PSG that would re-classify the child as having SDB not identified in the earlier PSG.

UI  - 22958163
TI  - Magnetic resonance angiography-defined intracranial vasculopathy is associated with silent cerebral infarcts and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase mutation in children with sickle cell anaemia.
AB  - Silent cerebral infarct (SCI) is the most commonly recognized cause of neurological injury in sickle cell anaemia (SCA). We tested the hypothesis that magnetic resonance angiography (MRA)-defined vasculopathy is associated with SCI. Furthermore, we examined genetic variations in glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) and HBA (-globin) genes to determine their association with intracranial vasculopathy in children with SCA. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain and MRA of the cerebral vasculature were available in 516 paediatric patients with SCA, enrolled in the Silent Infarct Transfusion (SIT) Trial. All patients were screened for G6PD mutations and HBA deletions. SCI were present in 415% (214 of 516) of SIT Trial children. The frequency of intracranial vasculopathy with and without SCI was 159% and 63%, respectively (P<0001). Using a multivariable logistic regression model, only the presence of a SCI was associated with increased odds of vasculopathy (P=00007, odds ratio (OR) 284; 95% Confidence Interval (CI)=155-521). Among male children with SCA, G6PD status was associated with vasculopathy (P=004, OR 278; 95% CI=104-742), while no significant association was noted for HBA deletions. Intracranial vasculopathy was observed in a minority of children with SCA, and when present, was associated with G6PD status in males and SCI.

UI  - 22955919
TI  - HLA-haploidentical bone marrow transplantation with posttransplant cyclophosphamide expands the donor pool for patients with sickle cell disease.
AB  - Allogeneic marrow transplantation can cure sickle cell disease; however, HLA-matched donors are difficult to find, and the toxicities of myeloablative conditioning are prohibitive for most adults with this disease. We developed a nonmyeloablative bone marrow transplantation platform using related, including HLA-haploidentical, donors for patients with sickle cell disease. The regimen consisted of antithymocyte globulin, fludarabine, cyclophosphamide, and total body irradiation, and graft-versus-host disease prophylaxis with posttransplantation high-dose cyclophosphamide, mycophenolate mofetil, and tacrolimus or sirolimus. After screening 19 patients, we transplanted 17, 14 from HLA-haploidentical and 3 from HLA-matched related donors. Eleven patients engrafted durably. With a median follow-up of 711 days (minimal follow up 224 days), 10 patients are asymptomatic, and 6 patients are off immunosupression. Only 1 patient developed skin-only acute graft-versus-host disease that resolved without any therapy; no mortality was seen. Nonmyeloablative conditioning with posttransplantation high-dose cyclophosphamide expands the donor pool, making marrow transplantation feasible for most patients with sickle cell disease, and is associated with a low risk of complications, even with haploidentical related donors. Graft failure, 43% in haploidentical pairs, remains a major obstacle but may be acceptable in a fraction of patients if the majority can be cured without serious toxicities.

UI  - 22952182
TI  - No improvement in suboptimal vitamin A status with a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of vitamin A supplementation in children with sickle cell disease.
AB  - Compared with placebo, 12 mo of vitamin A supplementation at the RDA for healthy children did not improve serum retinol values in children with SCD-SS, which possibly suggests that higher doses are needed. However, the existence of alternative conclusions emphasizes the need for future research.

UI  - 22924607
TI  - High dose vitamin D therapy for chronic pain in children and adolescents with sickle cell disease: results of a randomized double blind pilot study.
AB  - We report results of a pilot study of high-dose vitamin D in sickle cell disease (SCD). Subjects were given a 6-week course of oral high-dose cholecalciferol (4000-100000 IU per week) or placebo and monitored prospectively for a period of six months. Vitamin D insufficiency and deficiency was present at baseline in 825% and 525% of subjects, respectively. Subjects who received high-dose vitamin D achieved higher serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D, experienced fewer pain days per week, and had higher physical activity quality-of-life scores. These findings suggest a potential benefit of vitamin D in reducing the number of pain days in SCD. Larger prospective studies with longer duration are needed to confirm these effects.

UI  - 22915643
TI  - Impact of hydroxyurea on clinical events in the BABY HUG trial.
AB  - The Pediatric Hydroxyurea Phase 3 Clinical Trial (BABY HUG) was a phase 3 multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial of hydroxyurea in infants (beginning at 9-18 months of age) with sickle cell anemia. An important secondary objective of this study was to compare clinical events between the hydroxyurea and placebo groups. One hundred and ninety-three subjects were randomized to hydroxyurea (20 mg/kg/d) or placebo; there were 374 patient-years of on-study observation. Hydroxyurea was associated with statistically significantly lower rates of initial and recurrent episodes of pain, dactylitis, acute chest syndrome, and hospitalization; even infants who were asymptomatic at enrollment had less dactylitis as well as fewer hospitalizations and transfusions if treated with hydroxyurea. Despite expected mild myelosuppression, hydroxyurea was not associated with an increased risk of bacteremia or serious infection. These data provide important safety and efficacy information for clinicians considering hydroxyurea therapy for very young children with sickle cell anemia. This clinical trial is registered with the National Institutes of Health (NCT00006400, www.clinicaltrials.gov).

UI  - 22887019
TI  - A phase 1/2 trial of HQK-1001, an oral fetal globin inducer, in sickle cell disease.
AB  - Therapeutics which reduce the pathology in sickle cell syndromes are needed, particularly noncytotoxic therapeutics. Fetal hemoglobin (HbF, (2) (2) ) is established as a major regulator of disease severity; increased HbF levels correlate with milder clinical courses and improved survival. Accordingly, sodium dimethylbutyrate (HQK-1001), an orally-bioavailable, promoter-targeted fetal globin gene-inducing agent, was evaluated in a randomized, blinded, dose-ranging Phase I/II trial in 24 adult patients with HbSS or S/ thalassemia, to determine safety and tolerability of three escalating dose levels. The study therapeutic was administered once daily for two 6-week cycles, with a two-week interim dose holiday. Twenty-one patients completed the study. Five patients received study drug at 10 or 20 mg/kg doses, seven patients received study drug at 30 mg/kg/dose, and 4 patients received placebo. HQK-1001 was well-tolerated with no unexpected drug-related adverse events; a dose-limiting toxicity was not identified. Plasma drug levels were sustained above targeted levels for 24 hr. Increases in HbF above baseline were observed particularly with 30 mg/kg/day doses; in five of seven treated patients, a mean absolute increase in HbF of 0.2 g/dl and a mean increase in total hemoglobin (Hgb) of 0.83 g/dl above baseline were observed, whereas no increases occurred in placebo-treated controls. These findings of favorable PK profiles, tolerability, early rises in HbF, and total Hgb indicate that trials of longer duration appear warranted to more definitively evaluate the therapeutic potential of HQK-1001 in sickle cell disease.

UI  - 22886853
TI  - Impact of PCA strategies on pain intensity and functional assessment measures in adults with sickle cell disease during hospitalized vaso-occlusive episodes.
AB  - 

UI  - 22882132
TI  - Low-shear red blood cell oxygen transport effectiveness is adversely affected by transfusion and further worsened by deoxygenation in sickle cell disease patients on chronic transfusion therapy.
AB  - Decreased low-shear HVR suggests impaired oxygen transport to low-flow regions and may explain why some complications of sickle cell anemia are ameliorated by CTT and others may be made worse.

UI  - 22841030
TI  - Capturing PLMS and their variability in children with sickle cell disease: does ankle activity monitoring measure up to polysomnography?
AB  - Ankle activity monitoring is a valid screening measure for PLMS in children with SCD and can readily be performed at home. Interpretation should incorporate a threshold for elevated PLMS of 10/h and scoring from sleep onset to offset, which could be identified with concurrent wrist actigraphy, to better account for true PLMS.

UI  - 22804353
TI  - Red blood cell alloimmunization in sickle cell disease: prevalence in 2010.
AB  - Though antigen typing before transfusion of people with SCD and providing antigen-negative units is now widely employed by sickle cell centers, the alloimmunization rate remains quite high in contemporary sickle cell populations and may be due in large part to transfusions received at institutions not providing extended matching.

UI  - 22773602
TI  - Atorvastatin reduces serum cholesterol and triglycerides with limited improvement in vascular function in adults with sickle cell anemia.
AB  - 

UI  - 22760067
TI  - Two-year analysis of efficacy and safety of deferasirox treatment for transfusional iron overload in sickle cell anemia patients.
AB  - The efficacy and safety of a 2-year treatment with deferasirox was evaluated in 31 patients with sickle cell anemia and transfusional iron overload. At 24 months, there were significant decreases from baseline in mean serum ferritin (from 2,344.6 to 1,986.3 g/l; p = 0.040) and in mean liver iron concentration (from 13.0  5.4 to 9.3  5.7 mg Fe/g dry weight; p < 0.001). Myocardial T2* values were normal (>20 ms) in all patients at baseline and did not change significantly over the course of the study. However, there was a significant improvement from baseline in left ventricular ejection fraction at 24 months (62.2-64.6%; p = 0.02). Deferasirox was generally well tolerated with no progressive increases in serum creatinine or renal failure observed. These data confirm that deferasirox is effective in reducing body iron burden in patients with sickle cell anemia and transfusional iron overload.

UI  - 22734586
TI  - Low fixed-dose hydroxyurea in severely affected Indian children with sickle cell disease.
AB  - There is limited data on the efficacy of hydroxyurea (HU) in Indian sickle cell anemia patients who have severe manifestations despite high fetal hemoglobin (Hb F). Sixty sickle cell anemia children (5-18 years) with more than three episodes of vasoocclusive crises or blood transfusions per year were randomized to receive HU (n = 30) or placebo (n = 30) therapy. Fixed dose (10 mg/kg/day) of HU was administered for 18 months and the patients were followed-up monthly with clinical assessment and laboratory monitoring. In the HU group, hemoglobin (Hb) and Hb F levels increased significantly along with a significant decrease in the number of painful crises, blood transfusion requirements and hospitalizations compared to the placebo group. No major adverse events were observed in this study. In conclusion, low-fixed dose HU therapy was effective for the treatment of Indian sickle cell anemia children. However, there is a need for long-term studies to evaluate the efficacy and toxicity in a larger number of Indian sickle cell anemia patients.

UI  - 22689686
TI  - Hemorheological risk factors of acute chest syndrome and painful vaso-occlusive crisis in children with sickle cell disease.
AB  - Our results indicate for the first time that the red blood cell aggregation properties may play a role in the pathophysiology of acute chest syndrome in children with hemoglobin SC disease and boys with sickle cell anemia. In addition, whereas greater blood viscosity is associated with a higher rate of vaso-occlusive crises in children with sickle cell anemia, no association was found in children with hemoglobin SC disease, underscoring differences in the etiology of vaso-occlusive crises between sickle cell anemia and hemoglobin SC disease.

UI  - 22687181
TI  - Risk factors for increased ED utilization in a multinational cohort of children with sickle cell disease.
AB  - Asthma and exposure to environmental tobacco smoke are potentially modifiable risk factors for greater ED use in children with SCD. Low income is associated with greater ED use for SCD pain in countries with and without universal health care.

UI  - 22678814
TI  - Cerebral tissue hemoglobin saturation in children with sickle cell disease.
AB  - Cerebral desaturation, a physiologic marker of at-risk brain, is common in SCD, more severe in HbSS/S(0) patients, and associated with peripheral desaturation, more severe anemia, and increasing age. Cerebral oximetry has the potential to improve the identification of children with SCD at highest risk of neurologic injury and possibly serve as a physiologic guide for neuroprotective therapy.

UI  - 22647439
TI  - Intranasal fentanyl versus intravenous morphine in the emergency department treatment of severe painful sickle cell crises in children: study protocol for a randomised controlled trial.
AB  - Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN67469672 and EudraCT no. 2011-005161-20.

UI  - 22579409
TI  - Detecting the emergence of chronic pain in sickle cell disease.
AB  - Most SCD patients whose pain remits entirely between episodes are not in a chronic pain state, but some--those who are older and have a history of highly painful episodes--appear to be transitioning into it. These early signs of disturbed processing may aid clinicians seeking to forestall disease progression.

UI  - 22568799
TI  - Obesity--does it occur in Nigerian children with sickle cell anemia.
AB  - Children with sickle cell anemia are vulnerable to growth deficits; thus, it would be thought that obesity would be rare among them. The objective of the study is to examine the prevalence of obesity in a sickle cell anemia population in Lagos. A random sample of children with sickle cell anemia aged 2-15 years was interviewed and anthropometric measurements including weight and height were taken. Their body mass index (BMI) was calculated. Participants were classified as obese or not obese by their BMI or weight-for-height-for-age using World Health Organization standard definitions. The overall prevalence of obesity was 2.5% and 3.8% among hemoglobin genotype SS subjects and hemoglobin genotype AA controls, respectively. The age-specific prevalence for obesity was highest among the adolescent age category in hemoglobin genotype AA controls and the childhood age category in subjects with sickle cell anemia. All the obese subjects with sickle cell anemia were from upper socioeconomic strata, while two and one of the three subjects with hemoglobin genotype AA were from upper and middle socioeconomic strata, respectively. Obesity does exist among children with sickle cell anemia in Lagos, Nigeria. Public health programs aimed at prevention and control of obesity must include children with sickle cell anemia.

UI  - 22547579
TI  - Infusion of hemolyzed red blood cells within peripheral blood stem cell grafts in patients with and without sickle cell disease.
AB  - Peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) infusions are associated with complications such as elevated blood pressure and decreased creatinine clearance. Patients with sickle cell disease experience similar manifestations, and some have postulated release of plasma-free hemoglobin with subsequent nitric oxide consumption as causative. We sought to evaluate whether the infusion of PBSC grafts containing lysed red blood cells (RBCs) leads to the toxicity observed in transplant subjects. We report a prospective cohort study of 60 subjects divided into 4 groups based on whether their infusions contained dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) and lysed RBCs, no DMSO and fresh RBCs, DMSO and no RBCs, or saline. Our primary end point, change in maximum blood pressure compared with baseline, was not significantly different among groups. Tricuspid regurgitant velocity and creatinine levels also did not differ significantly among groups. Our data do not support free hemoglobin as a significant contributor to toxicity associated with PBSC infusions. This study was registered at clinicaltrials.gov (NCT00631787).

UI  - 22506947
TI  - Adult emergency department patients with sickle cell pain crisis: results from a quality improvement learning collaborative model to improve analgesic management.
AB  - While the use of a learning collaborative and implementation of nurse-initiated analgesic protocols was not associated with improvement in time to administration of the initial analgesic, improvements in the decrease in the arrival to discharge pain score and increased use of hydromorphone and the SC route were noted in adults with SCD in the ED.

UI  - 22488175
TI  - Hyposplenism: comparison of different methods for determining splenic function.
AB  - Asplenic patients are at risk for pneumococcal sepsis. Patients with hyposplenic function, such as associated with sickle cell disease (SCD), are also at risk. However, tests to assess splenic function are either unavailable or lacking standardization. The aim of this study was to compare different methods for determining splenic function. Eighteen patients with SCD (i.e., 10 heterozygous (SC) and 8 homozygous (SS) SCD patients), and eight splenectomized patients were compared to 10 controls. All subjects underwent spleen scintigraphy, after which functional splenic volumes (FSV) were calculated. FSV was compared to immunological function and B cell-subsets, as well as phagocytic function represented by the presence of Howell Jolly bodies (HJB) and percentages of pitted red cells (PIT). Heterozygous SCD (SC) patients had increased splenic volumes, but diminished FSV, homozygous SCD (SS) patients were asplenic. Splenectomized and SS patients had a strongly reduced phagocytic and immunological function. SC patients had reduced anti-polysaccharide responses without an increase in PIT. FSV correlated significantly with phagocytic and immunological function. HJB were indicative of splenic dysfunction, HJB absence was not indicative of normal functioning splenic tissue. Although visualizing HJB is methodologically advantageous to PIT, both are valid biomarkers of splenic dysfunction. The amount of non-switched memory B cells is strongly correlated to FSV.

UI  - 22488107
TI  - A potent oral P-selectin blocking agent improves microcirculatory blood flow and a marker of endothelial cell injury in patients with sickle cell disease.
AB  - Abnormal blood flow accounts for most of the clinical morbidity of sickle cell disease (SCD) [1,2]. Most notably, occlusion of flow in the microvasculature causes the acute pain crises [3] that are the commonest cause for patients with SCD to seek medical attention [4] and major determinants of their quality of life [5]. Based on evidence that endothelial P-selectin is central to the abnormal blood flow in SCD we provide results from four of our studies that are germane to microvascular blood flow in SCD. A proof-of-principle study established that doses of heparin lower than what are used for anticoagulation but sufficient to block P-selectin improved microvascular blood flow inpatients with SCD. An in vitro study showed that Pentosan Polysulfate Sodium (PPS) had greater P-selectin blocking activity than heparin. A Phase I clinical study demonstrated that a single oral dose of PPS increased microvascular blood flow in patients with SCD. A Phase II clinical study that was not completed documented that daily oral doses of PPS administered for 8 weeks lowered plasma levels of sVCAM-1 and tended to improve microvascular blood flow in patients with SCD. These data support the concept that P-selectin on the microvascular endothelium is critical to both acute vascular occlusion and chronically impaired microvascular blood flow in SCD. They also demonstrate that oral PPS is beneficial to microvascular sickle cell blood flow and has potential as an efficacious agent for long-term prophylactic therapy of SCD.

UI  - 22463614
TI  - Refining the value of secretory phospholipase A2 as a predictor of acute chest syndrome in sickle cell disease: results of a feasibility study (PROACTIVE).
AB  - Acute chest syndrome (ACS) is defined as fever, respiratory symptoms and a new pulmonary infiltrate in an individual with sickle cell disease (SCD). Nearly half of ACS episodes occur in SCD patients already hospitalized, potentially permitting pre-emptive therapy in high-risk patients. Simple transfusion of red blood cells may abort ACS if given to patients hospitalized for pain who develop fever and elevated levels of secretory phospholipase A2 (sPLA2). In a feasibility study (PROACTIVE; ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00951808), patients hospitalized for pain who developed fever and elevated sPLA2 were eligible for randomization to transfusion or observation; all others were enrolled in an observational arm. Of 237 enrolled, only 10 were randomized; one of the four to receive transfusion had delayed treatment. Of 233 subjects receiving standard care, 22 developed ACS. A threshold level of sPLA2  48 ng/ml gave optimal sensitivity (73%), specificity (71%) and accuracy (71%), but a positive predictive value of only 24%. The predictive value of sPLA2 was improved in adults and patients with chest or back pain, lower haemoglobin concentration and higher white blood cell counts, and in those receiving less than two-thirds maintenance fluids. The hurdles identified in PROACTIVE should facilitate design of a larger, definitive, phase 3 randomized controlled trial.

UI  - 22442712
TI  - The role of fibrocytes in sickle cell lung disease.
AB  - These data support the notion that activated fibrocytes play a significant role in the pathogenesis of sickle cell lung disease.

UI  - 22435112
TI  - Bone marrow transplant options and preferences in a sickle cell anemia cohort on chronic transfusions.
AB  - Most families of children with SCA on chronic transfusions choose to proceed with HLA typing. However, when a matched sibling was identified, most families declined to proceed with matched-sibling transplantation. Discussing BMT as a treatment option, offering HLA typing and identifying barriers may improve acceptance of this treatment modality.

UI  - 22360576
TI  - Hydroxycarbamide alters erythroid gene expression in children with sickle cell anaemia.
AB  - Sickle cell anaemia (SCA) is a severe debilitating haematological disorder associated with a high degree of morbidity and mortality. The level of fetal haemoglobin (HbF) is well-recognized as a critical laboratory parameter: lower HbF is associated with a higher risk of vaso-occlusive complications, organ damage, and early death. Hydroxycarbamide treatment can induce HbF, improve laboratory parameters, and ameliorate clinical complications of SCA but its mechanisms of action remain incompletely defined and the HbF response is highly variable. To identify pathways of hydroxycarbamide activity, we performed microarray expression analyses of early reticulocyte RNA obtained from children with SCA enrolled in the HydroxyUrea Study of Long-term Effects (NCT00305175) and examined the effects of hydroxycarbamide exposure in vivo. Hydroxycarbamide affected a large number of erythroid genes, with significant decreases in the expression of genes involved in translation, ribosome assembly and chromosome organization, presumably reflecting the daily cytotoxic pulses of hydroxycarbamide. Hydroxycarbamide also affected expression of numerous genes associated with HbF including BCL11A, a key regulator of baseline HbF levels. Together, these data indicate that hydroxycarbamide treatment for SCA leads to substantial changes in erythroid gene expression, including BCL11A and other potential signalling pathways associated with HbF induction.

UI  - 22343483
TI  - Ameliorating attention problems in children with sickle cell disease: a pilot study of methylphenidate.
AB  - Stimulant medication positively impacted select measures of memory and inhibitory control in some children with SCD. Attention, as rated by parent and teachers, was improved for a greater number of children and adolescents on higher doses of MPH relative to LD MPH and placebo. Stimulant medication may provide an effective intervention for some children with SCD and cerebrovascular complications who demonstrate attention problems.

UI  - 22343376
TI  - Unrelated donor cord blood transplantation for children with severe sickle cell disease: results of one cohort from the phase II study from the Blood and Marrow Transplant Clinical Trials Network (BMT CTN).
AB  - The Sickle Cell Unrelated Donor Transplant Trial (SCURT trial) of the Blood and Marrow Transplant Clinical Trials Network (BMT CTN) is a phase II study of the toxicity and efficacy of unrelated donor hematopoietic cell transplantation in children with severe sickle cell disease (SCD) using a reduced-intensity conditioning regimen. Here we report the results for the cord blood cohort of this trial. Eight children with severe SCD underwent unrelated donor cord blood transplantation (CBT) following alemtuzumab, fludarabine, and melphalan. Cyclosporine or tacrolimus and mycophenolate mofetil were administered for graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) prophylaxis. Donor/recipient HLA match status was 6 of 6 (n = 1) or 5 of 6 (n = 7), based on low/intermediate-resolution molecular typing at HLA -A, -B, and high-resolution typing at -DRB1. Median recipient age was 13.7 years (range: 7.4-16.2 years), and median weight was 35.0 kg (range: 25.2-90.2 kg). The median pre-cryopreservation total nucleated cell dose was 6.4  10(7) /kg (range: 3.1-7.6), and the median postthaw infused CD34 cell dose was 1.5  10(5) /kg (range: 0.2-2.3). All patients achieved neutrophil recovery (absolute neutrophil count >500/mm(3)) by day 33 (median: 22 days). Three patients who engrafted had 100% donor cells by day 100, which was sustained, and 5 patients had autologous hematopoietic recovery. Six of 8 patients had a platelet recovery to >50,000/mm(3) by day 100. Two patients developed grade II acute GVHD. Of these, 1 developed extensive chronic GVHD and died of respiratory failure 14 months posttransplantation. With a median follow-up of 1.8 years (range: 1-2.6), 7 patients are alive with a 1-year survival of 100%, and 3 of 8 are alive without graft failure or disease recurrence. Based upon the high incidence of graft rejection after unrelated donor CBT, enrollment onto the cord blood arm of the SCURT trial was suspended. However, because this reduced-intensity regimen has demonstrated a favorable safety profile, this trial remains open to enrollment for unrelated marrow donor transplants. Novel approaches aimed at improving engraftment will be needed before unrelated CBT can be widely adopted for transplanting patients with severe SCD.

UI  - 22341923
TI  - Hemodynamic characteristics and predictors of pulmonary hypertension in patients with sickle cell disease.
AB  - Pulmonary hypertension is a common co-morbidity of sickle cell disease with an associated increased mortality risk, but its etiology is not well-understood. To evaluate the hemodynamic characteristics, clinical predictors, and cardiovascular manifestations of elevated pulmonary arterial pressure in this population, we performed noninvasive hemodynamic assessments of 135 patients with sickle cell disease using Doppler echocardiography. A diagnosis of pulmonary hypertension was determined by gender-, age-, and body mass index-specific normal reference ranges for tricuspid regurgitation jet velocities (TRVs). A high TRV was noted in 34 patients (25%). Pulmonary vascular resistance was elevated in only 2 (6%) of the 34 patients with suspected pulmonary hypertension but was significantly greater than in those with normal TRV. On univariate regression, the TRV correlated with age, body mass index, left atrial pressure, and right ventricular stroke volume and was negatively associated with hemoglobin and glomerular filtration rate. The left atrial pressure, right ventricular stroke volume, and hemoglobin remained independent predictors of TRV in a multivariate model. A greater TRV was also associated with larger right ventricular and right atrial chamber sizes and greater N-terminal probrain natriuretic peptide levels. In conclusion, our results suggest that the mild elevation in TRV often observed in patients with sickle cell disease is rarely associated with a high pulmonary vascular resistance and that multiple factors-including the compensatory high output state associated with anemia, pulmonary venous hypertension, and pulmonary vasculopathy-can contribute to an elevated pulmonary arterial pressure in these patients.

UI  - 22327223
TI  - Evidence for both innate and acquired mechanisms of protection from Plasmodium falciparum in children with sickle cell trait.
AB  - Sickle cell trait (HbAS) is known to be protective against Plasmodium falciparum malaria, but it is unclear when during the course of infection this protection occurs and whether protection is innate or acquired. To address these questions, a cohort of 601 children 1-10 years of age were enrolled in Kampala, Uganda, and followed for 18 months for symptomatic malaria and asymptomatic parasitemia. Genotyping was used to detect and follow individual parasite clones longitudinally within subjects. Children with HbAS were protected against the establishment of parasitemia, as assessed by the molecular force of infection at older but not younger ages (at 2 years of age: incidence rate ratio [IRR] = 1.16; 95% confidence interval [95% CI], 0.62-2.19; P = .6; at 9 years of age: IRR = 0.50; 95% CI, 0.28-0.87; P = .01), suggesting an acquired mechanism of protection. Once parasitemic, children with HbAS were less likely to progress to symptomatic malaria, with protection again being the most pronounced at older ages (at 2 years of age: relative risk [RR] = 0.92; 95% CI, 0.77-1.10; P = .3; at 9 years of age: RR = 0.68; 95% CI, 0.51-0.91; P = .008). Conversely, the youngest children were best protected against high parasite density (at 2 years of age: relative density = 0.24; 95% CI, 0.10-0.54; P = .001; at 9 years of age: relative density = 0.59; 95% CI, 0.30-1.19; P = .14), suggesting an innate mechanism of protection against this end point.

UI  - 22318468
TI  - N-acetylcysteine reduces oxidative stress in sickle cell patients.
AB  - Oxidative stress is of importance in the pathophysiology of sickle cell disease (SCD). In this open label randomized pilot study the effects of oral N-acetylcysteine (NAC) on phosphatidylserine (PS) expression as marker of cellular oxidative damage (primary end point), and markers of hemolysis, coagulation and endothelial activation and NAC tolerability (secondary end points) were studied. Eleven consecutive patients (ten homozygous [HbSS] sickle cell patients, one HbS(0)-thalassemia patient) were randomly assigned to treatment with either 1,200 or 2,400 mg NAC daily during 6 weeks. The data indicate an increment in whole blood glutathione levels and a decrease in erythrocyte outer membrane phosphatidylserine exposure, plasma levels of advanced glycation end-products (AGEs) and cell-free hemoglobin after 6 weeks of NAC treatment in both dose groups. One patient did not tolerate the 2,400 mg dose and continued with the 1,200 mg dose. During the study period, none of the patients experienced painful crises or other significant SCD or NAC related complications. These data indicate that N-acetylcysteine treatment of sickle cell patients may reduce SCD related oxidative stress.

UI  - 22318199
TI  - Stroke With Transfusions Changing to Hydroxyurea (SWiTCH).
AB  - Stroke is a devastating complication of sickle cell anemia (SCA) with high recurrence if untreated. Chronic transfusions reduce recurrent strokes but have associated morbidities including iron overload. Stroke With Transfusions Changing to Hydroxyurea (SWiTCH) was a multicenter phase 3 randomized trial comparing standard treatment (transfusions/chelation) to alternative treatment (hydroxyurea/phlebotomy) for children with SCA, stroke, and iron overload. SWiTCH was a noninferiority trial with a composite primary end point, allowing an increased stroke risk but requiring superiority for removing iron. Subjects on standard treatment received monthly transfusions plus daily deferasirox iron chelation. Subjects on alternative treatment received hydroxyurea plus overlap transfusions during dose escalation to maximum tolerated dose (MTD), followed by monthly phlebotomy. Subjects on standard treatment (N = 66) maintained 30% sickle hemoglobin (HbS) and tolerated deferasirox at 28.2  6.0 mg/kg/d. Subjects on alternative treatment (N = 67) initiated hydroxyurea and 60 (90%) reached MTD at 26.2  4.9 mg/kg/d with 29.1%  6.7% fetal hemoglobin (HbF). Adjudication documented no strokes on transfusions/chelation but 7 (10%) on hydroxyurea/phlebotomy, still within the noninferiority stroke margin. The National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute closed SWiTCH after interim analysis revealed equivalent liver iron content, indicating futility for the composite primary end point. Transfusions and chelation remain a better way to manage children with SCA, stroke, and iron overload.

UI  - 22294512
TI  - Effect of hydroxyurea treatment on renal function parameters: results from the multi-center placebo-controlled BABY HUG clinical trial for infants with sickle cell anemia.
AB  - Treatment with hydroxyurea for 24 months did not influence GFR in young children with SCA. However, hydroxyurea was associated with better urine concentrating ability and less renal enlargement, suggesting some benefit to renal function.

UI  - 22288328
TI  - Knowledge and attitudes of secondary school students in Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja, Nigeria towards sickle cell disease.
AB  - This study shows that majority of the respondents did not know their genotype ,and their knowledge about the cause and prevention of SCD was poor.

UI  - 22278200
TI  - Exchange transfusion therapy and its effects on real-time microcirculation in pediatric sickle cell anemia patients: an intravital microscopy study.
AB  - Periodic blood exchange transfusion is a treatment modality commonly used to manage pediatric sickle cell anemia at the University of California Davis Medical Center. The goal of exchange transfusion therapy is to ameliorate vasoocclusion and improve tissue perfusion by removing sickled red blood cells and introducing normal red blood cells. Using computer-assisted intravital microscopy, pretransfusion and posttransfusion microvascular characteristics were analyzed. In this study, the bulbar conjunctiva exhibited a "blanched" avascular appearance in all 6 pediatric sickle cell anemia patients before transfusion, indicative of tissue hypoperfusion and ischemia. Immediately after transfusion, substantial improvement in vascularization and tissue perfusion resulted, reflected by the enhanced appearance of capillaries and arterioles. In addition, a decrease in red cell velocity was observed. These observations provide evidence that exchange transfusion therapy is beneficial in ameliorating vasoocclusion and improving tissue perfusion. However, with the paradoxical posttransfusion decrease in red cell velocity presumably due to induced hyperviscosity from the large transfusion volume, blood flow is still impaired. This decreased velocity may thwart efforts to improve oxygen delivery through transfusion and may, to some extent, promote vasoocclusion instead. This paradoxical result warrants further investigation on the effects of transfusion volume and viscosity in the exchange transfusion process.

UI  - 22275916
TI  - Local incentive spirometry improves peak expiratory flow rate in teenage sickle cell anaemia patients: a randomized pilot trial.
AB  - Locally designed incentive spirometry improved PEFR of the SCA teenagers significantly in six weeks of spirometry exercise. Routine improvement in PEFR of SCA patients with the aid of incentive spirometry should be encouraged to improve lung function.

UI  - 22238140
TI  - Evaluation of partial and total splenectomy in children with sickle cell disease using an Internet-based registry.
AB  - Both TS and PS result in favorable hematologic outcomes and low risk of adverse events for children with SCD. A REDCap-based registry may facilitate data entry and analysis of clinical outcomes to allow for comparison between different types of splenectomy.

UI  - 22237246
TI  - Renal disease in adult Nigerians with sickle cell anemia: a report of prevalence, clinical features and risk factors.
AB  - Renal abnormalities in adult Nigerians with sickle cell anemia (SCA) have not been extensively studied. To determine the prevalence, pattern and the associated risk factors of renal disease, 72 subjects with SCA from two centers in the southwestern Nigeria were investigated. Socio-demographic data, body mass index and clinical findings were documented. The urine analysis, serum bio-chemistry, hemogram and renal factors attributable to SCA were determined. Presence of albuminuria of at least 1+ or microalbuminuria in those negative with dipstick; and the estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) using the Cockcroft-Gault formula categorized subjects to various stages of chronic kidney disease (CKD). Subjects with and without albuminuria were compared to determine the relative risk associated with renal disease. Four (5.6%) subjects had macro-albuminuria, while 32 (44.4%) had micro-albuminuria and 30 (41.7%) had hemoglobinuria. In the subjects with albuminuria, age, hematocrit, systolic blood pressure, serum creatinine, urea and creatinine clearance were numerically higher while the eGFR was numerically lower. There was no significant difference in the clinical parameters studied in the two groups of subjects. The diastolic blood pressure was significantly higher in the albuminuric group. Based on eGFR, 22 (30.6%) subjects had hyperfiltration (GFR > 140 mL/min/1.73 m2), of whom 36.4% had albuminuria, 18 (25.0%) had stage 1 CKD, 30 (41.7%) had stage 2 CKD and two (2.7%) subjects had stage 3 CKD with albuminuria. None had stage 4 and 5 CKD. We conclude that renal abnormalities, importantly albuminuria, is common in adult Nigerians with SCA and the pattern and incidence are similar to those reported from other parts of the world. Regular blood pressure monitoring, early diagnosis and active intervention are advocated to delay progression to end-stage kidney disease in view of poor outcomes of renal replacement therapy in SCA patients with nephropathy.

UI  - 22231377
TI  - Chronic transfusion practices for prevention of primary stroke in children with sickle cell anemia and abnormal TCD velocities.
AB  - 

UI  - 22224796
TI  - Acute splenic sequestration crisis in sickle cell disease: cohort study of 190 paediatric patients.
AB  - Acute splenic sequestration crisis (ASSC) is an unpredictable life-threatening complication of sickle cell disease (SCD) in infants. Here, our objective was to update available clinical information on ASSC. We retrospectively studied the 190 patients who were diagnosed at birth with SS or Sbeta(0) in the Paris conurbation between 2000 and 2009 and who experienced ASSC. They had 437 ASSC episodes (0.06/patient-year). Median age at the first episode was 1.4 years (0.1-7) and 67% of patients had more than one episode. Age was the only factor predicting recurrence: the risk was lower when the first episode occurred after 2 years versus before 1 year of age (hazard ratio, 0.60; 95% confidence interval, 0.41-0.88; P=0.025). A concomitant clinical event was found in 57% of episodes. The mortality rate was 0.53%. The treatment consisted in watchful waiting without prophylactic blood transfusions or splenectomy in 103 (54%) patients and in a blood transfusion programme in 55 (29%) patients. Overall, splenectomy was performed in 71 (37%) patients, at a median age of 4.5 years (range, 1.9-9.4). In conclusion, aggressive treatment may be warranted in patients experiencing ASSC before 2 years of age. Randomized controlled trials are needed to define the best treatment modalities.

UI  - 22198986
TI  - Arterial stiffness and stroke in sickle cell disease.
AB  - These data suggest that transcranial Doppler and arterial stiffness might be associated to stroke in adult patients with sickle cell disease.

UI  - 22190441
TI  - Influence of severity of anemia on clinical findings in infants with sickle cell anemia: analyses from the BABY HUG study.
AB  - Infants with more severe anemia are at risk for increased clinical events that may be prevented by early initiation of hydroxyurea.

UI  - 22183952
TI  - Health-related quality of life (HRQL) in children with sickle cell disease and thalassemia following hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT).
AB  - Children with hemoglobinopathies had higher physical and emotional functioning scores prior to HSCT and experienced a similar pattern of recovery to their baseline functioning by 3 months post-HSCT when compared to children receiving HSCT for acquired conditions.

UI  - 22183471
TI  - Children with sickle cell disease who are experiencing psychosocial problems concurrently with their mothers: a Nigerian study.
AB  - In psychosocial management of physical illnesses, assessment and care should include a focus on families rather than on the affected individual only. In addition, identifying emotional and social dysfunction in a family member should lead to a search in other members; in this way primary prevention or control can effectively be carried out. Finally, identifying more modifiable factors that positively influence this pattern in which child and mother experience psychosocial dysfunction concurrently should be the urgent task of future and larger studies in this environment.

UI  - 22157132
TI  - Trivalent inactivated influenza vaccine is not associated with sickle cell crises in children.
AB  - This large cohort study did not find an association of influenza vaccination and hospitalization for sickle cell crises in children with sickle cell anemia.

UI  - 22155024
TI  - Clinical trial implementation and recruitment: lessons learned from the early closure of a randomized clinical trial.
AB  - We identified multiple barriers to patient accrual including short duration of enrollment period, protocol design, complex dosing schedule, requirement for staff availability during week-end and after hours, multiple departments' involvement, protocol acceptance, eligibility criteria, competing protocols, and limited staff. Each of these areas should be targeted for intervention in order to plan and conduct successful future clinical trials.

UI  - 22152833
TI  - Screening for sickle cell and thalassaemia in primary care: a cost-effectiveness study.
AB  - The policy judgement is whether an earlier opportunity for informed reproductive choice has a value of at least 13. Further work is required to understand the value attached to earlier informed reproductive choices.

UI  - 22120913
TI  - Transfusional iron overload in children with sickle cell anemia on chronic transfusion therapy for secondary stroke prevention.
AB  - Chronic transfusion reduces the risk of recurrent stroke in children with sickle cell anemia (SCA) but leads to iron loading. Management of transfusional iron overload in SCA has been reported as suboptimal [1], but studies characterizing monitoring and treatment practices for iron overload in children with SCA, particularly in recent years with the expansion of chelator options, are lacking. We investigated the degree of iron loading and treatment practices of 161 children with SCA receiving transfusions for a history of stroke who participated in the Stroke with Transfusions Changing to Hydroxyurea (SWiTCH) trial. Data obtained during screening, including past and entry liver iron concentration (LIC) measurements, ferritin values, and chelation were analyzed. The mean age at enrollment was 12.9  4 years and the mean duration of transfusion was 7  3.8 years. Baseline LIC (median 12.94 mg/g dw) and serum ferritin (median 3,164 ng/mL) were elevated. Chelation therapy was initiated after a mean of 2.6 years of transfusions. At study entry, 137 were receiving chelation, most of whom (90%) were receiving deferasirox. This study underscores the need for better monitoring of iron burden with timely treatment adjustments in chronically transfused children with SCA.

UI  - 22114954
TI  - Nocturnal oxygen desaturation and disordered sleep as a potential factor in executive dysfunction in sickle cell anemia.
AB  - Previous research has identified cognitive impairment in children with sickle cell anemia (SCA, Hemoglobin SS) compared with controls, partly accounted for by overt neuropathology after clinical stroke, "covert" ("silent") infarction, and severity of anemia. However, cognitive deficits have also been identified in children with SCA with no history of stroke and a normal T2-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan. Our aim was to investigate whether nocturnal hemoglobin oxygen desaturation and sleep fragmentation could be associated with cognitive impairment in children with SCA. We assessed 10 children with SCA (9 with normal MRI) using neuropsychological measures of executive function. Cognitive assessment was immediately followed by overnight polysomnography to record nocturnal hemoglobin oxygen saturation and sleep arousals. Decreases in hemoglobin oxygen saturation and/or increased sleep arousals were associated with reduced performance on cognitive assessment. Nocturnal hemoglobin oxygen desaturation and sleep fragmentation may be a contributing factor to executive dysfunction in SCA.

UI  - 22096242
TI  - Associated risk factors for silent cerebral infarcts in sickle cell anemia: low baseline hemoglobin, sex, and relative high systolic blood pressure.
AB  - The most common form of neurologic injury in sickle cell anemia (SCA) is silent cerebral infarction (SCI). In the Silent Cerebral Infarct Multi-Center Clinical Trial, we sought to identify risk factors associated with SCI. In this cross-sectional study, we evaluated the clinical history and baseline laboratory values and performed magnetic resonance imaging of the brain in participants with SCA (HbSS or HbS thalassemia) between the ages of 5 and 15 years with no history of overt stroke or seizures. Neuroradiology and neurology committees adjudicated the presence of SCI. SCIs were diagnosed in 30.8% (251 of 814) participants who completed all evaluations and had valid data on all prespecified demographic and clinical covariates. The mean age of the participants was 9.1 years, with 413 males (50.7%). In a multivariable logistic regression analysis, lower baseline hemoglobin concentration (P < .001), higher baseline systolic blood pressure (P = .018), and male sex (P = .030) were statistically significantly associated with an increased risk of an SCI. Hemoglobin concentration and systolic blood pressure are risk factors for SCI in children with SCA and may be therapeutic targets for decreasing the risk of SCI. This study is registered at www.clinicaltrials.gov as #NCT00072761.

UI  - 22082280
TI  - Effects of co-existing -thalassaemia in sickle cell disease on hydroxycarbamide therapy and circulating nucleic acids.
AB  - 

UI  - 22012708
TI  - Genotoxicity associated with hydroxyurea exposure in infants with sickle cell anemia: results from the BABY-HUG Phase III Clinical Trial.
AB  - These data provide additional support to the safety profile of hydroxyurea for young patients with SCA, and suggest that genotoxicity in this patient population is low.

UI  - 22002844
TI  - Problems with implementing a standardised transcranial Doppler screening programme: impact of instrumentation variation on STOP classification.
AB  - The current approach for applying STOP thresholds to imaging TCD data may not be required. Centres need to validate their imaging TCD practice to avoid inappropriate selection of patients for transfusion therapy.

UI  - 21953763
TI  - Opioid patient controlled analgesia use during the initial experience with the IMPROVE PCA trial: a phase III analgesic trial for hospitalized sickle cell patients with painful episodes.
AB  - Opioid analgesics administered by patient-controlled analgesia (PCA)are frequently used for pain relief in children and adults with sickle cell disease (SCD) hospitalized for persistent vaso-occlusive pain, but optimum opioid dosing is not known. To better define PCA dosing recommendations,a multi-center phase III clinical trial was conducted comparing two alternative opioid PCA dosing strategies (HDLIhigher demand dose with low constant infusion or LDHIlower demand dose and higher constant infusion) in 38 subjects who completed randomization prior to trial closure. Total opioid utilization (morphine equivalents,mg/kg) in 22 adults was 11.6  2.6 and 4.7  0.9 in the HDLI andin the LDHI arms, respectively, and in 12 children it was 3.7  1.0 and 5.8  2.2, respectively. Opioid-related symptoms were mild and similar in both PCA arms (mean daily opioid symptom intensity score: HDLI0.9  0.1, LDHI 0.9  0.2). The slow enrollment and early study termination limited conclusions regarding superiority of either treatment regimen. This study adds to our understanding of opioid PCA usage in SCD. Future clinical trial protocol designs for opioid PCA may need to consider potential differences between adults and children in PCA usage.

UI  - 21949038
TI  - Biomarkers of inflammation, growth factor, and coagulation activation in patients with sickle cell disease.
AB  - Acute painful crisis is a common sequela that can cause significant morbidity and negatively impact the quality of life of patients with sickle cell disease (SCD). Plasma levels of several chemokines and cytokines including tumor necrosis factor- (TNF-), interleukin 1 (IL-1), IL-6, IL-8, monocyte chemoattractant protein 1 (MCP-1), macrophage inflammatory protein 1 (MIP-1), and interferon  (IFN-) in patients with SCD showed a distinct and statistically significant rise either during painful crisis or at steady state. Plasma levels of various growth factors, including human vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), human basic fibroblast growth factor (FGF), and human hepatocyte growth factor (HGF), showed a sustained 2- to 3-fold increase either during painful crisis or at steady state in patients with SCD. Furthermore, plasma levels of the biomarker d-Dimer, a marker of hypercoagulation, showed a 2- to 3-fold increase either during painful crisis or at steady state in patients with SCD as compared to that in healthy participants, suggesting an increased risk of thrombosis.

UI  - 21921042
TI  - Epigenetic and molecular profiles of erythroid cells after hydroxyurea treatment in sickle cell anemia.
AB  - Hydroxyurea has been shown to be efficacious for the treatment of sickle cell anemia (SCA), primarily through the induction of fetal hemoglobin (HbF). However, the exact mechanisms by which hydroxyurea can induce HbF remain incompletely defined, although direct transcriptional effects and altered cell cycle kinetics have been proposed. In this study, we investigated potential epigenetic and alternative molecular mechanisms of hydroxyurea-mediated HbF induction by examining methylation patterns within the (G)-globin promoter and miRNA expression within primary CD71(+) erythrocytes of patients with SCA, both at baseline before beginning hydroxyurea therapy and after reaching maximum tolerated dose (MTD). Using both cross-sectional analysis and paired-sample analysis, we found that the highly methylated (G)-globin promoter was inversely correlated to baseline HbF levels, but only slightly altered by hydroxyurea treatment. Conversely, expression of several specific miRNAs was significantly increased after hydroxyurea treatment, and expression of miR-26b and miR-151-3p were both associated with HbF levels at MTD. The significant associations identified in these studies suggest that methylation may be important for regulation of baseline HbF, but not after hydroxyurea treatment, whereas changes in miRNA expression may be associated with hydroxyurea-mediated HbF induction. This study was registered at ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT00305175).

UI  - 21910715
TI  - MYH9 and APOL1 are both associated with sickle cell disease nephropathy.
AB  - Renal failure occurs in 5-18% of sickle cell disease (SCD) patients and is associated with early mortality. At-risk SCD patients cannot be identified prior to the appearance of proteinuria and the pathobiology is not well understood. The myosin, heavy chain 9, non-muscle (MYH9) and apolipoprotein L1 (APOL1) genes have been associated with risk for focal segmental glomerulosclerosis and end-stage renal disease in African Americans. We genotyped 26 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in MYH9 and 2 SNPs in APOL1 (representing the G1 and G2 tags) in 521 unrelated adult (18-83 years) SCD patients screened for proteinuria. Using logistic regression, SNPs were evaluated for association with proteinuria. Seven SNPs in MYH9 and one in APOL1 remained significantly associated with proteinuria after multiple testing correction (P < 00025). An MYH9 risk haplotype (P = 0001) and the APOL1 G1/G2 recessive model (P < 00001) were strongly associated with proteinuria, even when accounting for the other. Glomerular filtration rate was negatively correlated with proteinuria (P < 00001), and was significantly predicted by an interaction between MYH9 and APOL1 in age-adjusted analyses. Our data provide insight into the pathobiology of renal dysfunction in SCD, suggesting that MYH9 and APOL1 are both associated with risk.

UI  - 21907352
TI  - Effects of chronic transfusions on abdominal sonographic abnormalities in children with sickle cell anemia.
AB  - In children with SCA, long-term transfusion therapy may not prevent development or progression of abdominal organ dysfunction.

UI  - 21900080
TI  - Echocardiographic markers of elevated pulmonary pressure and left ventricular diastolic dysfunction are associated with exercise intolerance in adults and adolescents with homozygous sickle cell anemia in the United States and United Kingdom.
AB  - Echocardiography-estimated elevated pulmonary artery systolic pressure and LV lateral E/e' ratio were independently associated with poor exercise capacity in a large cohort of patients with sickle cell anemia. Controlled trials investigating whether strategies to prevent or delay pulmonary hypertension and/or LV diastolic dysfunction will improve exercise capacity and long-term outcomes in sickle cell anemia should be considered. Clinical Trial Registration- URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00492531.

UI  - 21885600
TI  - Cervical carotid artery disease in sickle cell anemia: clinical and radiological features.
AB  - Cervical internal carotid artery (cICA) occlusion is a recognized cause of acute ischemic stroke (AIS) in sickle cell disease (SCD), but the associated clinical and radiologic features are not well described. We reviewed data on cervical magnetic resonance angiography (cMRA) performed prospectively in 67 patients (55 children) for indications including transcranial Doppler (TCD) abnormalities, AIS, or previous AIS. cICA lesions were seen in 10 (15%) patients, including 4 of 7 patients presenting with AIS, and appear to have been missed on first presentation in 4 of 10 patients with previous AIS. Radiologic features in 7 patients were consistent with dissection. In 2 patients, there was strong clinical and radiologic evidence for thromboembolic AIS, and this was also considered possible in 4 other patients. Three of the 4 AIS patients were anticoagulated acutely, and the nontreated patient had recurrent, probably thromboembolic, AIS. TCD findings were variable, but in 4 patients there were high velocities in the cerebral vessels contralateral to the cICA stenosis. We suggest that all patients with AIS should have cMRA during acute evaluation to identify cICA occlusions that may require anticoagulation. Routine screening of children with SCD should also include evaluation of neck vessels by carotid Doppler followed by cMRA if a cervical vascular lesion is suspected.

UI  - 23508482
TI  - Hematological parameters in association with outcomes in sickle cell anemia patients.
AB  - Our data provide additional support that widely evaluable and assessable hematological parameters such as PCV and WBC can be used as indices to predict SCD outcome in African patients. This is likely to impart positively on individualized therapy.

UI  - 21876119
TI  - Pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, and pharmacogenetics of hydroxyurea treatment for children with sickle cell anemia.
AB  - Hydroxyurea therapy has proven laboratory and clinical efficacies for children with sickle cell anemia (SCA). When administered at maximum tolerated dose (MTD), hydroxyurea increases fetal hemoglobin (HbF) to levels ranging from 10% to 40%. However, interpatient variability of percentage of HbF (%HbF) response is high, MTD itself is variable, and accurate predictors of hydroxyurea responses do not currently exist. HUSTLE (NCT00305175) was designed to provide first-dose pharmacokinetics (PK) data for children with SCA initiating hydroxyurea therapy, to investigate pharmacodynamics (PD) parameters, including HbF response and MTD after standardized dose escalation, and to evaluate pharmacogenetics influences on PK and PD parameters. For 87 children with first-dose PK studies, substantial interpatient variability was observed, plus a novel oral absorption phenotype (rapid or slow) that influenced serum hydroxyurea levels and total hydroxyurea exposure. PD responses in 174 subjects were robust and similar to previous cohorts; %HbF at MTD was best predicted by 5 variables, including baseline %HbF, whereas MTD was best predicted by 5 variables, including serum creatinine. Pharmacogenetics analysis showed single nucleotide polymorphisms influencing baseline %HbF, including 5 within BCL11A, but none influencing MTD %HbF or dose. Accurate prediction of hydroxyurea treatment responses for SCA remains a worthy but elusive goal.

UI  - 21852698
TI  - Impact on informed choice of offering antenatal sickle cell and thalassaemia screening in primary care: a randomized trial.
AB  - Offering antenatal SCT screening in primary care did not reduce the likelihood that women made informed choices. Rates of informed choice were low and could be increased by improving knowledge.

UI  - 21849972
TI  - Variant hemoglobin phenotypes may account for differential erythropoiesis-stimulating agent dosing in African-American hemodialysis patients.
AB  - African-American patients with end-stage renal disease have historically lower hemoglobin concentrations and higher requirements of erythropoiesis-stimulating agent (ESA). While disparities in health-care access may partially explain these findings, the role of variant hemoglobin, such as sickle trait, has not been investigated. To clarify this, we evaluated 154 African-American patients receiving in-center hemodialysis with available hemoglobin phenotyping. The primary exposure was any abnormal hemoglobin variant and the primary outcome of higher-dose ESA was defined as a dose of 6500 or more units per treatment. Logistic regression assessed the association between variant hemoglobin and higher-dose ESA. Covariates included age, gender, diabetes, iron parameters, intravenous iron dose, parathyroid hormone, albumin, phosphorus, body mass index, vascular access type, hospitalization/missed treatments, smoking status, alcohol abuse, and gastrointestinal bleeding. Of 33 patients with variant hemoglobin, 24 had HbAS and 9 had HbAC. Univariate odds of higher-dose ESA among those with hemoglobin variants were twice that of those with the normal HbAA phenotype (odds ratio 2.05). In multivariate models, the likelihood of higher-dose ESA had an odds ratio of 3.31 and the nature of this relationship did not change in Poisson regression or sensitivity analyses. Hence, our findings may explain, in part, the difference in ESA dosing between Caucasians and African-Americans with end-stage renal disease but await further study.

UI  - 21848879
TI  - Tapered oral dexamethasone for the acute chest syndrome of sickle cell disease.
AB  - Tapered oral dexamethasone for acute chest syndrome (ACS) in sickle cell anaemia was studied using a novel ACS assessment tool and investigational biomarkers. Twelve participants were randomized (mean age 173 years) before early study termination. Dexamethasone decreased duration of hospitalization for ACS by 208 h compared to placebo (P = 0024). Rebound pain occurred in both groups (3 dexamethasone versus 1 placebo). Overall, dexamethasone decreased the leucocyte activation biomarker, sL-selectin; however, participants with rebound pain had higher sL-selectin within 24 h of treatment (dexamethasone or placebo). This ACS assessment tool was feasibly applied, and sL-selectin is a promising biomarker of ACS therapy.

UI  - 21826782
TI  - Stroke With Transfusions Changing to Hydroxyurea (SWiTCH): a phase III randomized clinical trial for treatment of children with sickle cell anemia, stroke, and iron overload.
AB  - Investigation of alternative treatments in SWiTCH could lead to changes in the management of cerebrovascular disease for selected patients with SCA, stroke, and iron overload.

UI  - 21809369
TI  - Recurrent, severe wheezing is associated with morbidity and mortality in adults with sickle cell disease.
AB  - Prior studies of asthma in children with sickle cell disease (SCD) were based on reports of a doctor-diagnosis of asthma with limited description of asthma features. Doctor-diagnoses of asthma may represent asthma or wheezing unrelated to asthma. Objectives of this study were to determine if asthma characteristics are present in adults with a doctor-diagnosis of asthma and/or wheezing, and to examine the relationship between doctor-diagnosis of asthma, wheezing and SCD morbidity. This was an observational cohort study of 114 adults with SCD who completed respiratory symptom questionnaires and had serum IgE measurements. A subset of 79 participants completed pulmonary function testing. Survival analysis was based on a mean prospective follow-up of 28 months and data were censored at the time of death or loss to follow-up. Adults reporting a doctor-diagnosis of asthma (N = 34) were more likely to have features of asthma including wheeze, eczema, family history of asthma, and an elevated IgE level (all P < 0.05). However, there was no difference in pain or ACS rate, lung function, or risk of death between adults with and without a doctor-diagnosis of asthma. In contrast, adults who reported recurrent, severe episodes of wheezing (N = 34), regardless of asthma, had twice the rates of pain and ACS, decreased lung function and increased risk of death compared with adults without recurrent, severe wheezing. Asthma features were not associated with recurrent, severe wheezing. Our data suggest that wheezing in SCD may occur independently of asthma and is a marker of disease severity.

UI  - 21750084
TI  - Frequency of pain crises in sickle cell anemia and its relationship with the sympatho-vagal balance, blood viscosity and inflammation.
AB  - Results from the present study indicate that both the autonomic nervous system activity and blood viscosity are impaired in patients with sickle cell anemia exhibiting high frequency of pain crisis in comparison with those who did not experience a crisis within the previous year.

UI  - 21744485
TI  - Massive accidental overdose of hydroxyurea in a young child with sickle cell anemia.
AB  - The Pediatric Hydroxyurea Phase III Clinical Trial (BABY HUG) confirmed safety and efficacy of hydroxyurea therapy for infants with sickle cell anemia. Treatment was associated with reduction in rates of pain, acute chest syndrome, hospitalizations, and blood transfusions; improved hematologic values; and, perhaps, preservation of organ function. During the study, a 2-year-old ingested at one time an entire 35-day supply of hydroxyurea (612 mg/kg body weight). Despite a serum level of 7,756 M 4 hours post-ingestion, the only toxicity was transient mild myelosuppression. With wider usage of hydroxyurea anticipated, conservative management of future overdoses seems reasonable (ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00006400).

UI  - 21743219
TI  - Microalbuminuria in children with sickle cell anemia.
AB  - Microalbuminuria (MA) is an early marker of various diseases affecting the renal system. Its relevance in children with sickle cell anemia (SCA), who are known to be prone to renal complications, has not been fully explored, particularly in the study locale. Besides, its occurrence in this group of patients remains under-reported in locations where the burden of SCA is enormous. To assess its prevalence in this cohort, 69 children with sickle cell anemia (in their steady state), aged 1-16 years, were consecutively enrolled and evaluated. The study, spanning from November 2006 to February 2007, was cross-sectional and descriptive. Employing a semiquantitative method, MA in an early morning spot urine sample was determined in each subject. Also evaluated were the anthropometry, blood pressure (BP) and packed cell volume. Prevalence of MA in the study subjects was 20.3%. Though not significant, prevalence of MA was more in females (25.9%) than in males (16.7%). Prevalence of MA increased with increasing age and was also significantly associated with weight (P = 0.033), but was independent of family history of hypertension. BP recordings, both systolic and diastolic, in the study subjects were within normal range. MA occurs significantly enough in children with SCA to warrant routine screening for it. Such a measure could assist in the early detection of ensuing renal complications and can pave way for improved management of a sickler who is particularly prone to such problems. In addition, interventional measures, known to retard rate of deterioration of kidney function due to prolonged proteinuria, could also be instituted early.

UI  - 21732836
TI  - A hemodynamic study of pulmonary hypertension in sickle cell disease.
AB  - In this study of adults with sickle cell disease, the prevalence of pulmonary hypertension as confirmed on right heart catheterization was 6%. Echocardiographic evaluation alone had a low positive predictive value for pulmonary hypertension. (Funded by the French Ministry of Health and Assistance Publique-Hpitaux de Paris; ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00434902.).

UI  - 21689089
TI  - NT-pro brain natriuretic peptide levels and the risk of death in the cooperative study of sickle cell disease.
AB  - Epidemiological studies support a hypothesis that pulmonary hypertension (PH) is a common complication of sickle cell disease (SCD) that is associated with a high risk of death and evolves as a complication of haemolytic anaemia. This fundamental hypothesis has been recently challenged and remains controversial. In order to further test this hypothesis in a large and independent cohort of SCD patients we obtained plasma samples from the Cooperative Study of Sickle Cell Disease (CSSCD) for analysis of a biomarker, N-terminal-pro brain natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP), which is elevated in the setting of pulmonary arterial and venous hypertension. A NT-pro-BNP value previously identified to predict PH in adults with SCD was used to determine the association between the risk of mortality in 758 CSSCD participants (428 children and 330 adults). An abnormally high NT-proBNP level 160ng/l was present in 276% of adult SCD patients. High levels were associated with markers of haemolytic anaemia, such as low haemoglobin level (P<0001), high lactate dehydrogenase (P<0001), and high total bilirubin levels (P<0007). A NT-proBNP level 160ng/l was an independent predictor of mortality (RR 624, 95% CI 29-133, P<00001). These findings provide further support for an association between haemolytic anaemia and cardiovascular complications in this patient population.

UI  - 21661098
TI  - Prediction of onset and course of high hospital utilization in sickle cell disease.
AB  - Overall, high utilization was difficult to predict, as was its course. The diagnoses most associated with high utilization indicated more severe sickle cell disease. Septicemia deserves further investigation as a preventable cause for high utilization, as do mood disorders.

UI  - 21635551
TI  - Pilot study of omega-3 fatty acid supplements in sickle cell disease.
AB  - In a previous retrospective study, it was observed that the greater the amounts of the omega-3 fatty acids eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) in the blood, the lesser the number of complications of sickle cell disease (SCD) and the higher the steady state haemoglobin level. SCD causes ischaemia-reperfusion injury and inflammation; which can be ameliorated by a metabolite of DHA that down-regulates expression of pro-inflammatory genes. The objectives of this prospective pilot study were to evaluate the effects of DHA and EPA supplements in SCD, and test the hypothesis that these effects are mediated partly by reducing inflammation. Oral DHA and EPA supplements were given to 16 SCD patients for 6 months. We then compared pre- and post-supplementation values of number of crisis, steady state Hb, plasma unconjugated bilirubin and three indices of inflammation: plasma interleukin-6, blood neutrophil and platelet counts. There was a significant reduction in the plasma level of unconjugated bilirubin, and the number of sickle cell crisis; but not in the markers of inflammation. The pilot data suggest that DHA and EPA supplements reduce the number of crisis and steady state haemolysis in SCD; but provide no evidence that these effects are mediated by reducing inflammation.

UI  - 21633086
TI  - Discontinuing prophylactic transfusions increases the risk of silent brain infarction in children with sickle cell disease: data from STOP II.
AB  - In the STOP II trial, discontinuation of prophylactic transfusions in high risk children with sickle cell disease (SCD) resulted in a high rate of reversion to abnormal blood-flow velocities on transcranial Doppler (TCD) ultrasonography and strokes. We analyzed data from STOP II to determine the effect of discontinuing transfusions on the development or progression of silent brain infarcts on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). At study entry, 21 of 79 (27%) patients had evidence of silent infarcts. There were no statistically significant differences in baseline characteristics between patients with normal brain MRI or silent infarcts at study entry. At study end, 3 of 37 (8.1%) patients in the continued-transfusion group developed new brain MRI lesions compared with 11 of 40 (27.5%) in the transfusion-halted group (P = .03). The total number of lesions remained essentially unchanged decreasing from 25 to 24 in the continued-transfusion group while increasing from 27 to 45 in transfusion-halted patients. Thus, discontinuation of transfusions in children with SCD and abnormal TCD who revert to low-risk increases the risk of silent brain infarction. Together with data from STOP, these findings demonstrate that transfusions prevent the development of silent infarcts in patients with SCD and abnormal TCD but normal MRA.

UI  - 21630312
TI  - Laboratory and echocardiography markers in sickle cell patients with leg ulcers.
AB  - 

UI  - 21630304
TI  - Biomarkers for early detection of sickle nephropathy.
AB  - Renal complications affect nearly 30-50% of adults with sickle cell anemia (SCA), causing significant morbidity and mortality. Standard renal function tests like serum creatinine and glomerular filtration rate become abnormal in this disease only when renal damage has become extensive and largely irreversible. Moreover, not all patients develop sickle nephropathy (SN). Therefore, noninvasive biomarkers that predict early onset of SN are necessary. We performed a cross-sectional analysis for nephropathy in 116 patients with sickle cell disease, analyzing urinary kidney injury molecule-1 (KIM-1), liver-type fatty acid binding protein (L-FABP), N-acetyl-b-D-glucosaminidase (NAG), neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin (NGAL) and transforming growth factor-1 (TGF-), together with conventional renal biomarkers (urine albumin and osmolality, and serum creatinine and cystatin C estimated GFR) during routine clinic visits when patients were at steady-state/baseline. We observed a distinct biomarker pattern: KIM-1 and NAG emerged as biomarkers with a strong association with albuminuria. Surprisingly, and in contrast to other acute/chronic renal disorders, NGAL, L-FABP, and TGF- levels did not show any relationship with albuminuria in patients with SCA. Our study identifies potential biomarkers for SN, and suggests longitudinal validation of these biomarkers for early detection of SN, so that therapeutic interventions can be applied before renal damage becomes irreversible.

UI  - 21619673
TI  - Population pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of hydroxyurea in sickle cell anemia patients, a basis for optimizing the dosing regimen.
AB  - The clinical studies whose data are analysed and reported in this work were not required to be registered in France at their time. Both studies were approved by local ethics committees (of Mondor Hospital and of Kremlin-Bicetre Hospital) and written informed consent was obtained from each patient.

UI  - 21606305
TI  - Abdominal ultrasound with scintigraphic and clinical correlates in infants with sickle cell anemia: baseline data from the BABY HUG trial.
AB  - In infants with sickle cell anemia, sonographic spleen volume does not reflect function, but increased renal volume correlates with GFR and is consistent with hyperfiltration. Sonographic biliary abnormalities can occur early in life, while remaining clinically silent.

UI  - 21592110
TI  - Long-term safety and efficacy of deferasirox (Exjade) for up to 5 years in transfusional iron-overloaded patients with sickle cell disease.
AB  - To date, there is a lack of long-term safety and efficacy data for iron chelation therapy in transfusion-dependent patients with sickle cell disease (SCD). To evaluate the long-term safety and efficacy of deferasirox (a once-daily oral iron chelator), patients with SCD completing a 1-year, Phase II, randomized, deferoxamine (DFO)-controlled study entered a 4-year extension, continuing to receive deferasirox, or switching from DFO to deferasirox. Average actual deferasirox dose was 194  63 mg/kg per d. Of 185 patients who received at least one deferasirox dose, 335% completed the 5-year study. The most common reasons for discontinuation were withdrawal of consent (238%), lost to follow-up (92%) and adverse events (AEs) (76%). Investigator-assessed drug-related AEs were predominantly gastrointestinal [including nausea (146%), diarrhoea (108%)], mild-to-moderate and transient in nature. Creatinine clearance remained within the normal range throughout the study. Despite conservative initial dosing, serum ferritin levels in patients with  4 years deferasirox exposure significantly decreased by -591 g/l (95% confidence intervals, -1411, -280 g/l; P = 0027; n = 67). Long-term deferasirox treatment for up to 5 years had a clinically acceptable safety profile, including maintenance of normal renal function, in patients with SCD. Iron burden was substantially reduced with appropriate dosing in patients treated for at least 4 years.

UI  - 21584938
TI  - High resource hospitalizations among children with vaso-occlusive crises in sickle cell disease.
AB  - Older age and secondary diagnoses were associated with high resource use during VOC hospitalizations. These findings suggest the need to improve adherence to comprehensive care among older children to prevent VOCs and standardize protocols to manage VOC complications.

UI  - 21571150
TI  - Hydroxycarbamide in very young children with sickle-cell anaemia: a multicentre, randomised, controlled trial (BABY HUG).
AB  - The US National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute; and the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development.

UI  - 21527519
TI  - Hospitalization for pain in patients with sickle cell disease treated with sildenafil for elevated TRV and low exercise capacity.
AB  - In adults with sickle cell disease (SCD), an increased tricuspid regurgitation velocity (TRV) by Doppler echocardiography is associated with increased morbidity and mortality. Although sildenafil has been shown to improve exercise capacity in patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension, it has not been evaluated in SCD. We therefore sought to determine whether sildenafil could improve exercise capacity in SCD patients with increased TRV and a low exercise capacity. A TRV  2.7 m/s and a 6-minute walk distance (6MWD) between 150 and 500 m were required for enrollment in this 16-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled sildenafil trial. After 74 of the screened subjects were randomized, the study was stopped early due to a higher percentage of subjects experiencing serious adverse events in the sildenafil arm (45% of sildenafil, 22% of placebo, P = .022). Subject hospitalization for pain was the predominant cause for this difference: 35% with sildenafil compared with 14% with placebo (P = .029). There was no evidence of a treatment effect on 6MWD (placebo-corrected effect -9 m; 95% confidence interval [95% CI] -56-38; P = .703), TRV (P = .503), or N-terminal pro-brain natriuretic peptide (P = .410). Sildenafil appeared to increase hospitalization rates for pain in patients with SCD. This study is registered at www.clinicaltrials.gov as NCT00492531.

UI  - 21523806
TI  - Plasma glial fibrillary acidic protein levels in children with sickle cell disease.
AB  - To determine if glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) is associated with brain injury in children with sickle cell disease (SCD), we measured plasma GFAP among cross-sectional groups of unselected children with SCD, subsets of children with SCD and normal brain MRI or MRI evidence of cerebral infarct, healthy pediatric controls, and adults with brain injury. Children with SCD had higher plasma GFAP than healthy pediatric controls (mean concentrations 0.14  0.37 vs. 0.07  0.08 ng/mL; P 5 0.003); also, 16.0% (16/100) of children with SCD and cerebral infarct had GFAP elevations above the 95th percentile of healthy pediatric controls (P 5 0.04). Although not statistically significant, children with SCD and cerebral infarct had more elevated GFAP levels than with SCD and no infarct (16/100, 16.0% vs. 14/168, 8.3%; P 5 0.07). Children with SCD and acute brain ischemia had a higher proportion of elevated GFAP than SCD children with normal MRI (3/6, 50% vs.8.3%; P 5 0.01). GFAP was associated with elevated systolic blood pressure in the preceding year and correlated positively with white blood cell count and negatively with age and performance IQ. Plasma GFAP is elevated among children with SCD and may be associated with subclinical brain injury.

UI  - 21499319
TI  - Allogeneic cellular gene therapy in hemoglobinopathies--evaluation of hematopoietic SCT in sickle cell anemia.
AB  - Many patients with thalassemia have been cured with BMT since the first successful transplant in 1981. Allogeneic stem cell gene therapy is the only treatment option for patients with sickle cell anemia (SCA). A total of 11 patients with a median age of 12 years (range, 2-16), affected by SCA, received hematopoietic SCT from HLA-identical, related donors following a myeloablative-conditioning regimen. Indications for transplantation were vaso-occlusive crisis, acute chest syndrome, avascular bone necrosis, chronic RBC transfusions, or hemorrhagic stroke. All patients had sustained engraftment. One patient became a stable mixed chimera with 25% of donor cells at 4 years after transplantation. One patient died at 1 year after transplantation. The probability of survival, SCA-free survival and TRM at 5 years after transplant were 90, 90 and 10%, respectively. All 10 surviving patients remained free of any SCA-related events after transplantation. In conclusion, these data confirm SCT from a suitable HLA-matched, related donor should become the primary option for curing children with SCA. There is an excellent survival rate and a return to normal life, free of SCA-related events.

UI  - 21481164
TI  - The association between hydroxyurea treatment and pain intensity, analgesic use, and utilization in ambulatory sickle cell anemia patients.
AB  - Hydroxyurea usage led to a small, statistically significant reduction in daily pain, analgesic use, and utilization in adults in MSH, corroborating previously shown larger reductions in crises and mortality. The degree of daily symptomatic reduction was related to the size of the HbF treatment response, further confirming HbF response as a useful laboratory correlate.

UI  - 21477202
TI  - A pilot study of the short-term use of simvastatin in sickle cell disease: effects on markers of vascular dysfunction.
AB  - Sickle cell disease (SCD) is characterized by progressive vascular injury and its pathophysiology is strikingly similar to that of atherosclerosis. Statins decrease inflammation and improve endothelial function in cardiovascular disease, but their effect in SCD is not known. In this pilot study, we examined the safety and effect of short-term simvastatin on biomarkers of vascular dysfunction in SCD. We treated 26 SCD patients with simvastatin, 20 or 40 mg/d, for 21 d. Plasma nitric oxide metabolites (NOx), C-reactive protein (CRP), interleukin-6 (IL-6), vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1), tissue factor (TF) and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) were analyzed and responses to simvastatin were compared between the two treatment groups. Simvastatin increased NOx levels by 23% in the low-dose (P =001) and 106% in the moderate-dose (P =001) groups, and by 52% overall (P=00008). CRP decreased similarly in both dose groups and by 68% overall (P =002). Levels of IL-6 decreased by 50% (P=004) and 71% (P<005) in the low- and moderate-dose groups, respectively. Simvastatin had no effect on VEGF, VCAM1 or TF. Simvastatin was well-tolerated and safe. Our preliminary findings showing a dose-related effect of simvastatin on levels of NOx, CRP and IL-6 suggest a potential therapeutic role for simvastatin in SCD.

UI  - 21388662
TI  - Elevation of IgE in children with sickle cell disease is associated with doctor diagnosis of asthma and increased morbidity.
AB  - Significantly increased levels of total and allergen-specific IgE levels are associated with asthma in SCD. High IgE levels are a risk factor for ACS but not pain rates.

UI  - 21375541
TI  - Sickle cell, habitual dys-positions and fragile dispositions: young people with sickle cell at school.
AB  - The experiences of young people living with a sickle cell disorder in schools in England are reported through a thematic analysis of forty interviews, using Bourdieu's notions of field, capital and habitus. Young people with sickle cell are found to be habitually dys-positioned between the demands of the clinic for health maintenance through self-care and the field of the school, with its emphases on routines, consistent attendance and contextual demands for active and passive pupil behaviour. The tactics or dispositions that young people living with sickle cell can then employ, during strategy and struggle at school, are therefore fragile: they work only contingently, transiently or have the unintended consequences of displacing other valued social relations. The dispositions of the young people with sickle cell are framed by other social struggles: innovations in school procedures merely address aspects of sickle cell in isolation and are not consolidated into comprehensive policies; mothers inform, liaise, negotiate and advocate in support of a child with sickle cell but with limited success. Reactions of teachers and peers to sickle cell have the enduring potential to drain the somatic, cultural and social capital of young people living with sickle cell.

UI  - 21370420
TI  - Safety of short-term valacyclovir as an anti-sickling agent in sickle-cell anemia.
AB  - To assess safety and tolerability, we administered valacyclovir, an oral anti-viral medication that inhibits erythrocyte sickling in vitro, to 14 subjects with sickle-cell anemia for 1 week at a standard dose of 1,000 mg every 8 hr. No clinically significant adverse effects occurred. In 11 subjects in steady state, the mean hemoglobin concentration was almost constant while the absolute reticulocyte count decreased in eight (P = 0.1) and the overall mean fell slightly although not significantly (10%, P = 0.2). These results suggest that valacyclovir is safe and well tolerated in patients with sickle-cell anemia and that a longer duration of therapy merits investigation.

UI  - 21364138
TI  - Nitric oxide for inhalation in the acute treatment of sickle cell pain crisis: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00094887.

UI  - 21323872
TI  - Improvements in haemolysis and indicators of erythrocyte survival do not correlate with acute vaso-occlusive crises in patients with sickle cell disease: a phase III randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind study of the Gardos channel blocker senicapoc (ICA-17043).
AB  - Red blood cell (RBC) hydration is regulated in part by the Ca(2+) -activated K(+) efflux (Gardos) channel. Senicapoc selectively blocks potassium efflux through the Gardos channel, reducing RBC dehydration and haemolysis, and increasing haemoglobin levels in sickle cell disease (SCD). This randomized, placebo-controlled trial was designed to determine the safety and clinical efficacy of senicapoc in SCD patients. One hundred and forty-five patients were randomized to receive senicapoc and 144 patients to receive placebo for 52 weeks. Consistent with a previous study, patients in the senicapoc group had significantly increased haematocrit, haemoglobin, and decreased numbers of both dense erythrocytes and reticulocytes when compared to the placebo group. The unblinded Data Monitoring Committee terminated this study early due to a lack of efficacy when it determined that, despite improvements in anaemia and haemolysis, no significant improvement in the rate of sickle cell painful crises was observed in patients treated with senicapoc compared to those on placebo (038 vs. 031, respectively). Comparisons of the times to first, second and third crises between the senicapoc and placebo groups were not statistically significant. Nausea and urinary tract infections occurred more frequently in the senicapoc group than placebo. Serious adverse events were similar in the two groups.

UI  - 21275961
TI  - The effects of hydroxycarbamide and magnesium on haemoglobin SC disease: results of the multi-centre CHAMPS trial.
AB  - In a phase-II multi-centre double-blinded trial, we evaluated haematological effects of oral hydroxycarbamide (HC) and magnesium (Mg) in patients with HbSC, aged 5-53 years old. Subjects were randomized to HC + placebo, Mg + placebo, HC + Mg, or placebo + placebo. The primary endpoint was the proportion of hyperdense red blood cells after 8 weeks. Thirty-six subjects were evaluable, but the study was terminated early because of slow enrollment. In the combined HC groups, mean cell volume and HbF were increased, but differences were not seen in hyperdense red cells or vaso-occlusive events. Mg had no effects. Further investigation of hydroxycarbamide as monotherapy in HbSC disease is warranted.

UI  - 21225920
TI  - Sickle-cell disease in California: a population-based description of emergency department utilization.
AB  - ED utilization by the California SCD population is described on a population level. Utilization patterns by adults point towards increased utilization in the population no longer eligible for Title V pediatric coverage for their disease. Further investigation using population-level socioeconomic and geographic correlates is warranted to evaluate the factors leading to ED utilization in SCD.

UI  - 21217080
TI  - Biomarkers of splenic function in infants with sickle cell anemia: baseline data from the BABY HUG Trial.
AB  - We evaluated spleen function in 193 children with sickle cell anemia 8 to 18 months of age by (99m)Tc sulfur-colloid liver-spleen scan and correlated results with clinical and laboratory parameters, including 2 splenic biomarkers: pitted cell counts (PIT) and quantitative Howell-Jolly bodies (HJB) enumerated by flow cytometry. Loss of splenic function began before 12 months of age in 86% of infants in association with lower total or fetal hemoglobin and higher white blood cell or reticulocyte counts, reinforcing the need for early diagnosis and diligent preventive care. PIT and HJB correlated well with each other and liver-spleen scan results. Previously described biomarker threshold values did define patients with abnormal splenic function, but our data suggest that normal spleen function is better predicted by PIT of 1.2% or HJB 55/10(6) red blood cells and absent function by PIT 4.5% or HJB 665/10(6). HJB is methodologically advantageous compared with PIT, but both are valid biomarkers of splenic function. This trial was registered at www.clinicaltrials.gov as #NCT00006400.

UI  - 21181560
TI  - A video-intervention to improve clinician attitudes toward patients with sickle cell disease: the results of a randomized experiment.
AB  - Our results suggest that the attitudes of clinicians toward sickle cell patients may be improved through a short and relatively easy to implement intervention. Whether the attitudinal differences associated with our intervention are sustainable or are linked to clinical outcomes remains to be seen.

UI  - 21179892
TI  - Hemoglobin depletion from plasma: considerations for proteomic discovery in sickle cell disease and other hemolytic processes.
AB  - Hb depletion with NiNTA is effective for Hb removal but is not specific. There is a potential for deleterious depletion of potential biomarkers that may limit the applicability of this method. Consideration of alternate methods of Hb depletion for clinical proteomics may be warranted.

UI  - 21157894
TI  - Multi-modal intervention for the inpatient management of sickle cell pain significantly decreases the rate of acute chest syndrome.
AB  - A multi-modal intervention to educate and subsequently change physician's behavior likely decreased the rate of ACS in the setting of a single teaching hospital.

UI  - 21141289
TI  - Chart Card: feasibility of a tool for improving emergency department care in sickle cell disease.
AB  - Patient satisfaction with emergency department care and efficacy in health care increased post Chart Card implementation. Providers valued immediate access to patient information and SCD treatment guidelines. The technology has potential for application in the treatment of other illnesses in other settings.

UI  - 21141286
TI  - The impact of hydroxyurea on career and employment of patients with sickle cell anemia.
AB  - The purpose of this study was to determine the association between hydroxyurea treatment and changes in employment status, if any, among patients with sickle cell anemia enrolled in the Multicenter Study of Hydroxyurea in Sickle Cell Anemia (MSH). To that end, we compared the employment status among treatment responders, treatment nonresponders, and placebo groups of patients enrolled in MSH during the clinical trial and follow-up periods. Treatment with hydroxyurea did not significantly (p > .05) affect employment status, but there was a trend for more consistent employment in the hydroxyurea group. Given the fact that patients enrolled in MSH had moderate to severe disease with irreversible complications such as avascular necrosis, if would be attractive to hypothesize that future treatment of young patients with hydroxyurea could prevent or mitigate the incidence of complications of sickle cell anemia and, hence, improve the employment status of treated patients.

UI  - 21127308
TI  - A prospective diary study of stuttering priapism in adolescents and young men with sickle cell anemia: report of an international randomized control trial--the priapism in sickle cell study.
AB  - Priapism is defined as a prolonged, persistent, and purposeless penile erection. It is a common (35%) but frequently understated complication in young men and adults with sickle cell disease. We had previously demonstrated an association between stuttering attacks (<4 hours) and an acute catastrophic event with its consequent problems of erectile dysfunction and impotence. We describe a randomized, placebo-controlled, clinical study looking at medical prophylaxis with 2 oral -adrenergic agonists, etilefrine and ephedrine, in preventing stuttering attacks of priapism. One hundred thirty-one patients were registered into a 2-phase (observational and intervention phase) study, and 86 patients (66%) completed Phase A diary charts. Forty-six patients (59%) completed a 6-month treatment phase (Phase B), and the remaining patients were lost to follow-up despite persistent efforts to contact them. Various reasons are postulated for the high attrition rates. The drugs were well tolerated, and no serious adverse events were reported. There was no significant difference among the 4 treatment groups in the weekly total number of attacks in Phase B (analysis of covariance P = .99) nor among the average pain score per attack after adjusting for attack rates and pain scores in Phase A (analysis of covariance P = .33). None of the patients who completed the study required penile aspiration at study sites while on medical prophylaxis. Young men with sickle cell disease are not comfortable engaging with health care providers about issues relating to their sexual health. The full impact of an improved awareness campaign and early presentation to hospital merits further standardized study. Priapism still contributes seriously to the comorbidity experienced by this previously inaccessible group of patients and medical prophylaxis with oral -adrenergic agonists is feasible. Future international collaborative efforts using some of the lessons learnt in this study should be undertaken.

UI  - 21088242
TI  - Sickle cell disease and transcranial Doppler imaging: inter-hemispheric differences in blood flow Doppler parameters.
AB  - the study provides reference limits of interhemispheric differences and ratios of blood flow Doppler parameters that may be helpful in identification of intracranial arterial narrowing in children with sickle cell disease undergoing ultrasound screening for stroke prevention.

UI  - 21062549
TI  - Offering antenatal sickle cell and thalassaemia screening to pregnant women in primary care: a qualitative study of GPs' experiences.
AB  - GPs reported barriers, as well as facilitators, to successful implementation but the extent to which screening could be regarded as offering 'informed choice' remained fundamental when making sense of these barriers and facilitators.

UI  - 20955402
TI  - A randomized phase II trial of Arginine Butyrate with standard local therapy in refractory sickle cell leg ulcers.
AB  - Sickle cell leg ulcers are often debilitating, refractory to healing, and prone to recurrence. Healing of leg ulcers was incidentally observed during dose-ranging trials of Arginine Butyrate in beta haemoglobinopathies. Here, a controlled Phase II trial was performed in sickle cell patients who had lower extremity ulcers refractory to standard care for at least 6 months. Patients were randomized to receive standard local care alone (Control Arm) or standard care with Arginine Butyrate administered 5 d/week (Treatment Arm), for 12 weeks. Ulcers were photographed weekly, traced, and ulcer areas were calculated by computerized planimetry and compared between the two study arms. Twenty-seven study courses were evaluated. Control Arm subjects had 25 ulcers with a mean area of 257 cm(2) initially and 232 cm(2) after 12 weeks; 2/25 (8%) healed completely. Treatment Arm subjects had 37 ulcers with a mean area of 506 cm(2) initially and 283 cm(2) at 12 weeks; 11/37 of these (30%) healed completely. After 3 months, proportions of ulcers which healed were 6/25 (24%) and 29/37 (78%), in the Control and Treatment Arms respectively (P < 0001). These findings strongly suggest that Arginine Butyrate merits further evaluation for the treatment of refractory sickle cell leg ulcers in larger trials.

UI  - 20940417
TI  - Silent cerebral infarcts occur despite regular blood transfusion therapy after first strokes in children with sickle cell disease.
AB  - Children with sickle cell disease (SCD) and strokes receive blood transfusion therapy for secondary stroke prevention; despite this, approximately 20% experience second overt strokes. Given this rate of second overt strokes and the clinical significance of silent cerebral infarcts, we tested the hypothesis that silent cerebral infarcts occur among children with SCD being transfused for secondary stroke prevention. A prospective cohort enrolled children with SCD and overt strokes at 7 academic centers. Magnetic resonance imaging and magnetic resonance angiography of the brain were scheduled approximately every 1 to 2 years; studies were reviewed by a panel of neuroradiologists. Eligibility criteria included regularly scheduled blood transfusion therapy. Forty children were included; mean pretransfusion hemoglobin S concentration was 29%. Progressive cerebral infarcts occurred in 45% (18 of 40 children) while receiving chronic blood transfusion therapy; 7 had second overt strokes and 11 had new silent cerebral infarcts. Worsening cerebral vasculopathy was associated with new cerebral infarction (overt or silent; relative risk = 12.7; 95% confidence interval, 2.65-60.5, P = .001). Children with SCD and overt strokes receiving regular blood transfusion therapy experience silent cerebral infarcts at a higher rate than previously recognized. Additional therapies are needed for secondary stroke prevention in children with SCD.

UI  - 20923841
TI  - Effectiveness of earlier antenatal screening for sickle cell disease and thalassaemia in primary care: cluster randomised trial.
AB  - Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN00677850.

UI  - 20921906
TI  - The safety, tolerability, and efficacy of a liquid formulation of deferiprone in young children with transfusional iron overload.
AB  - Limited data are available on the use of deferiprone in children younger than 10 years of age. This study evaluated the safety and efficacy of a new liquid formulation of deferiprone for the treatment of transfusional iron overload in children 1-10 years old. One hundred children (91 thalassemia major, 8 Hb E- thalassemia, and 1 sickle cell disease) were enrolled for a 6-month treatment with deferiprone (50 to 100 mg/kg/d). The safety profile was similar to or better than that reported in earlier studies with deferiprone tablets in older children and adults. No unexpected adverse reactions were observed. Gastrointestinal intolerance (GI) was observed in 11% and an increased serum ALT in 12% of the children. Both events were transient. Mild neutropenia, observed in 6% of patients, did not progress to agranulocytosis and resolved despite continuous deferiprone treatment. Two patients experienced agranulocytosis that resolved without complications upon discontinuation of therapy. Deferiprone use was associated with a significant decline in mean serum ferritin level from 25321463 g/L at baseline to 21761144 g/L (P<0.0005). The results of this study show a favorable benefit/risk ratio of deferiprone oral solution for the treatment of young children with transfusional iron overload.

UI  - 20884713
TI  - Elevated tricuspid regurgitation velocity and decline in exercise capacity over 22 months of follow up in children and adolescents with sickle cell anemia.
AB  - Further studies should define the long-term risks of elevated tricuspid regurgitation velocity in childhood and identify potential interventions to prevent increased pulmonary artery pressure and preserve function.

UI  - 20864308
TI  - Hydroxyurea and acute painful crises in sickle cell anemia: effects on hospital length of stay and opioid utilization during hospitalization, outpatient acute care contacts, and at home.
AB  - Beneficial effects of HU include shortening the duration of hospitalization because of acute painful episodes and reducing the net amount of opioid utilization.

UI  - 20854115
TI  - Early detection of response to hydroxyurea therapy in patients with sickle cell anemia.
AB  - Red blood cells (RBC) and reticulocyte parameters were determined on peripheral blood from a subset of patients enrolled in the multicenter study of hydroxyuea (HU) in sickle cell anemia. Multiple blood samples were obtained every 2 weeks. Cellular indices were measured by flow cytometry. Generalized linear models were used to determine the relationship between the longitudinal trajectories of RBC and reticulocyte indices and HU usage. There was a significant relationship between HU usage and most of the RBC and reticulocyte indices. Hydroxyurea produced higher value trajectories than those generated by placebo usage for the hemoglobin (Hb) content of both the RBCs and reticulocytes and for the mean corpuscular volume (MCV) of reticulocytes. These changes were first detected 10 weeks after starting HU and before the increase in Hb F levels. The data suggest that subtle and early markers of response to HU reside in the hemogram.

UI  - 20806678
TI  - Primary care clinicians' knowledge and confidence about newborn screening for sickle cell disease: randomized assessment of educational strategies.
AB  - Both educational strategies led to modest improvements in knowledge about newborn screening for hemoglobin disorders. Enhancing knowledge and confidence about newborn screening-related tasks may improve clinicians' capacity to act upon newborn screening results for hemoglobinopathies.

UI  - 20799359
TI  - Beneficial effects of nitric oxide breathing in adult patients with sickle cell crisis.
AB  - Pain from vaso-occlusive crisis (VOC) is the major cause of hospitalization in patients with sickle cell disease (SCD). The beneficial therapeutic effects of inhaled nitric oxide (NO) on the pathophysiology of SCD have been reported. A double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial was conducted to determine whether NO breathing reduces acute VOC pain in adult patients and to study the safety of inhaled NO. Twenty-three patients experiencing acute VOC were enrolled. After randomization but before treatment, five were found to not meet final eligibility criteria. Nine patients were assigned to inhaled NO (80 ppm) and nine to placebo (21% O2). Primary outcome was the mean change in pain scores after 4 hr of inhalation, measured on a 10-cm visual analog scale (VAS). Both groups had similar baseline VAS pain scores but inhaled NO significantly reduced pain scores compared with placebo (P 5 0.02) at the end of NO inhalation. Secondary outcome was parenteral morphine use at baseline, 4, and 6 hr. Parenteral morphine use was lower in the inhaled NO group, but the difference was not statistically significant.Safety assessments included systolic blood pressure measurements,pulse oximetry readings, concentration of delivered nitrogen dioxide, and concentration of methemoglobin (metHb). None of these NO toxicities was observed.

UI  - 20797449
TI  - Recruitment of infants with sickle cell anemia to a Phase III trial: data from the BABY HUG study.
AB  - Large, demanding clinical trials require an adequate pool of potential participants. Approaching all potentially eligible patients without predetermined biases enhances success in recruitment.

UI  - 20724949
TI  - Effect of oral arginine supplementation on exhaled nitric oxide concentration in sickle cell anemia and acute chest syndrome.
AB  - In contrast to our earlier study, ACS+ patients had similar FE(NO) values when compared with ACS- and HC patients. All SCD patients were arginine deficient at baseline and showed impairment in respiratory physiology when compared with HC patients. After arginine supplementation, FE(NO) concentration increased in all groups to a similar degree, and lung function and physiologic parameters were minimally affected. The physiologic significance of alterations in FE(NO) in SCD patients and its relationship to ACS predilection requires further delineation.

UI  - 20724735
TI  - Airway hyperresponsiveness in children with sickle cell anemia.
AB  - In children with SCA, AHR to methacholine is prevalent. Younger age, serum IgE concentration, and LDH level, a marker of hemolysis, are associated with AHR. With the exception of serum IgE, no signs or symptoms of an allergic diathesis are associated with AHR. Although the relationship between methacholine responsiveness and LDH suggests that factors related to SCA may contribute to AHR, these results will need to be validated in future studies.

UI  - 20694469
TI  - Sickle-cell disease and malaria: evaluation of seasonal intermittent preventive treatment with sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine in Senegalese patients-a randomized placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - Sickle-cell disease (SCD) patients are at high risk of developing malaria which is a major contributor to morbidity and mortality in this disease. In Senegal, malaria transmission is high during rainy season, between July and October, and it was noted that sickle-cell crisis are frequent during this period. Then we carried out a double-blind randomized controlled trial to compare the impact of monthly sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine (SP) during the high-transmission season versus placebo on malaria incidence and morbidity of sickle-cell anemia. Sixty (60) SCD patients were randomized either to receive three intermittent preventive treatment (ITP) with SP or placebo using the random permutation table with nine elements. The drug was administrated as follows: sulfadoxine 25 mg/kg and pyrimethamine 1.25 mg/kg and this treatment was given once during the following months: September, October, and November. Overall four episodes of malaria disease were diagnosed, all these cases in the placebo arm. Thus, overall prevalence was 6.6% and there was no other case of malaria in the SP arm during the study period. Parasitological diagnosis confirmed the presence of Plasmodium falciparum in all four cases. No patient death was encountered during the study. SP treatment was well tolerated as only one patient (1.6%) in the SP arm reported pruritus. A significant reduction of patients' complaints (p = 002) and blood requirements (p = 0.001) was noted in the SP group; whereas, no impact was observed on vaso-occlusive crisis and hospitalization occurrence. Malaria prophylaxis by monthly intake of SP during the transmission period of the parasite reduced the prevalence of malaria and was safe in SCD patients leaving in malaria endemic area.

UI  - 20686425
TI  - A family-based randomized controlled trial of pain intervention for adolescents with sickle cell disease.
AB  - The study had 2 aims---to determine the efficacy of a family-based cognitive-behavioral pain management intervention for adolescents with sickle cell disease (SCD) in (1) reducing pain and improving health-related variables and (2) improving psychosocial outcomes. Each adolescent and a family support person were randomly assigned to receive a brief pain intervention (PAIN) (n=27) or a disease education attention control intervention (DISEASE ED) (n=26) delivered at home. Assessment of primary pain and health-related variables (health service use, pain coping, pain-related hindrance of goals) and secondary psychosocial outcomes (disease knowledge, disease self-efficacy, and family communication) occurred at baseline (before randomization), postintervention, and 1-year follow-up. Change on outcomes did not differ significantly by group at either time point. When groups were combined in exploratory analyses, there was evidence of small to medium effects of intervention on health-related and psychosocial variables. Efforts to address barriers to participation and improve feasibility of psychosocial interventions for pediatric SCD are critical to advancing development of effective treatments for pain. Sample size was insufficient to adequately test efficacy, and analyses did not support this focused cognitive-behavioral pain management intervention in this sample of adolescents with SCD. Exploratory analyses suggest that comprehensive interventions, that address a broad range of skills related to disease management and adolescent health concerns, may be more effective in supporting teens during healthcare transition.

UI  - 20678158
TI  - Plasma levels of advanced glycation end products are associated with haemolysis-related organ complications in sickle cell patients.
AB  - Oxidative stress plays an important role in the pathophysiology of sickle cell disease (SCD). Plasma levels of advanced glycation end products (AGEs) are increased under oxidative conditions and are associated with disease severity in diabetes and inflammatory diseases. We investigated whether AGEs are increased in sickle cell patients and whether they are associated with SCD-related complications. Plasma levels of the AGEs pentosidine, N() -(carboxymethyl)lysine (CML) and N() -(carboxyethyl)lysine (CEL) were measured using single-column high performance liquid chromatography with fluorescence detection (pentosidine) and ultra performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (CML and CEL). Plasma levels of pentosidine and CML were increased in HbSS/HbS-thalassaemia (n=60) and HbSC/HbS(+) -thalassaemia (n=42) patients during steady state as compared to healthy HbAA controls (n=30) without increments during painful crisis. CEL levels were comparable between all groups. Pentosidine and CML levels correlated significantly to haemolytic rate during the clinically asymptomatic state while pentosidine was significantly related to the number of haemolysis-related organ complications. The increased plasma AGE levels in sickle cell patients and their association with haemolysis and haemolysis-related complications suggest AGEs might be implicated in the pathophysiology of the haemolytic phenotype of SCD. Measurement of AGEs might be useful in predicting organ complications in SCD.

UI  - 20661572
TI  - Deferasirox effectively decreases iron burden in patients with double heterozygous HbS/-thalassemia.
AB  - Iron overload is present in several cases of double heterozygous sickle-cell/beta-thalassemia (HbS/-thal). Deferasirox is an orally administered iron chelator which is effective on iron overloaded patients with transfusion-dependent anemia. The aim of this study was to investigate the efficacy and safety of deferasirox on HbS/-thal patients with iron overload. We evaluated 31 adult patients with HbS/-thal (14M/17F; median age 41 years) who had serum ferritin levels >1,000 ng/mL and who were sporadically transfused. Total iron burden was monitored by measuring serum ferritin levels before and monthly after starting deferasirox, while liver iron concentration and cardiac iron burden were measured by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) T2 and T2* parameters at baseline and 12 months after deferasirox treatment. Deferasirox managed to reduce the mean serum ferritin levels after 12 months of treatment from 1,989  923 to 1,008  776 ng/mL (P < 0.001). This reduction was accompanied by a significant improvement on MRI T2* of the liver (from 3.9  3.2 to 5.8  3.1 ms; P < 0.01) and by a comparable improvement of biochemical parameters of liver function. Mild nausea and diarrhea of grade 1/2 were reported in 25% of patients within the first month of treatment, but did not re-occur. These data indicate that deferasirox provided effective control of iron levels (mainly of the liver) in minimally transfused patients with HbS/-thal, without significant adverse events, at similar doses to those studied widely for the treatment of patients with thalassemia syndromes.

UI  - 20658620
TI  - Health-related quality of life in children with sickle cell disease: a report from the Comprehensive Sickle Cell Centers Clinical Trial Consortium.
AB  - While longitudinal studies will be necessary to determine sensitivity to change, the current study suggests the potential utility of several PedsQL HRQOL scales as patient-reported outcome measures for observational or interventional treatment studies of children and adolescents with SCD.

UI  - 20592057
TI  - Developing a short form of the simple Rathus assertiveness schedule using a sample of adults with sickle cell disease.
AB  - The SRAS-SF reduces response burden, while maintaining reliability and validity.

UI  - 20576657
TI  - One-third of the new paediatric patients with sickle cell disease in The Netherlands are immigrants and do not benefit from neonatal screening.
AB  - The number of children with SCD in The Netherlands is much higher than previously estimated, and the majority of these children seem not to be reviewed regularly by a paediatrician. Children born abroad (27% of new cases) do not benefit from neonatal screening and are at high risk of life-threatening complications before SCD is diagnosed. As this introduces disparities in healthcare, the initiation of adequate measures should be considered.

UI  - 20547639
TI  - Incidental findings on brain magnetic resonance imaging of children with sickle cell disease.
AB  - In this large cohort of children, incidental intracranial findings were identified for 6.6%, with potentially serious or urgent findings for 0.6%.

UI  - 20513116
TI  - The risks and benefits of long-term use of hydroxyurea in sickle cell anemia: A 17.5 year follow-up.
AB  - A randomized, controlled clinical trial established the efficacy and safety of short-term use of hydroxyurea in adult sickle cell anemia. To examine the risks and benefits of long-term hydroxyurea usage, patients in this trial were followed for 17.5 years during which they could start or stop hydroxyurea. The purpose of this follow-up was to search for adverse outcomes and estimate mortality. For each outcome and for mortality, exact 95% confidence intervals were calculated, or tests were conducted at alpha = 0.05 level (P-value <0.05 for statistical significance). Although the death rate in the overall study cohort was high (43.1%; 4.4 per 100 person-years), mortality was reduced in individuals with long-term exposure to hydroxyurea. Survival curves demonstrated a significant reduction in deaths with long-term exposure. Twenty-four percent of deaths were due to pulmonary complications; 87.1% occurred in patients who never took hydroxyurea or took it for <5 years. Stroke, organ dysfunction, infection, and malignancy were similar in all groups. Our results, while no longer the product of a randomized study because of the ethical concerns of withholding an efficacious treatment, suggest that long-term use of hydroxyurea is safe and might decrease mortality.

UI  - 20507315
TI  - Association of G6PD with lower haemoglobin concentration but not increased haemolysis in patients with sickle cell anaemia.
AB  - The genetic bases of the highly variable degrees of anaemia and haemolysis in persons with Hb SS are not fully known, but several studies have indicated that G6PD deficiency is not a factor. The G6PD(202A) and G6PD(376G) alleles and alpha-thalassaemia were determined by molecular genetic testing in 261 children and adolescents with Hb SS in a multicentre study. G6PD(202A,376G) (G6PD A-) was defined as hemizygosity for both alleles in males and homozygosity in females. Among the participants 41% were receiving hydroxycarbamide. The prevalence of G6PD(202A,376G) was 13.6% in males and 3.3% in females with an overall prevalence of 8.7%. G6PD(202A,376G) was associated with a 10 g/l decrease in haemoglobin concentration (P = 0.008) but not with increased haemolysis as measured by lactate dehydrogenase, bilirubin, aspartate-aminotransferase, reticulocyte count or a haemolytic component derived from these markers (P > 0.09). Similar results were found within a sub-group of children who were not receiving hydroxycarbamide. By comparison, single and double alpha-globin deletions were associated with progressively higher haemoglobin concentrations (P = 0.005 for trend), progressively lower values for haemolytic component (P = 0.007), and increased severe pain episodes (P < 0.001). In conclusion, G6PD(202A,376G) may be associated with lower haemoglobin concentration in sickle cell anaemia by a mechanism other than increased haemolysis.

UI  - 20480136
TI  - Early intermittent noninvasive ventilation for acute chest syndrome in adults with sickle cell disease: a pilot study.
AB  - Respiratory rate and gas exchange improved faster with NIV. However, NIV failed to significantly reduce the number of patients remaining hypoxemic at day 3, and was associated with greater patient discomfort.

UI  - 20466223
TI  - Efficacy of tramadol vs meperidine in vasoocclusive sickle cell crisis.
AB  - Despite progress in management, patients with sickle cell disease who are experiencing acute painful episode are often incompletely treated. We compared meperidine and tramadol with respect to their effects on the hemodynamics and pain relief in patients with sickle cell disease who were admitted to the emergency department with painful crisis. A total of 68 patients with sickle cell disease were randomly assigned to receive either tramadol 1.5 mg/kg (n = 34) or meperidine 1 mg/kg (n = 34). Hemodynamic parameters were recorded at regular intervals after analgesic infusions. Pain intensity and relief were documented by visual analog and pain relief scale, respectively. Sedation level was defined according to Ramsay sedation scale. Both meperidine and tramadol administration resulted in a significant reduction in systolic and diastolic blood pressure after 2 hours (P < .05). Efficacy in pain relief between the analgesics was more rapid and better in the meperidine group, although the degree of relief were significantly improved compared to baseline levels in both groups (P < .05). Sedation was more commonly seen in the meperidine arm. None of the patients had experienced neurotoxicity. In summary, both agents had proven safe and effective for emergent use in patients with sickle cell disease. Avoiding meperidine injections as recommended with previous guidelines needs to be carefully reconsidered especially when low doses are mentioned.

UI  - 20460621
TI  - Neuropsychological dysfunction and neuroimaging abnormalities in neurologically intact adults with sickle cell anemia.
AB  - Compared with healthy controls, adults with SCA had poorer cognitive performance, which was associated with anemia and age.

UI  - 20460000
TI  - Sickling and solubility tests and the peripheral blood film method for screening for sickle cell disease. [corrected].
AB  - Initial operational costs were high for all scenarios but variably reduced in the subsequent years. Scenarios A1 and A2 were very sensitive compared with B1 and B2. Scenario A1 had the highest screening costs in the subsequent years, costing over 62 000 USh per test in both eastern and western Uganda. Scenario B2 was sensitive and cheaper when using the sickling test, but was expensive and insensitive when using the solubility test and more insensitive though cheaper when using the peripheral blood film method. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATION: Screening children in Mulago hospital using haemoglobin electrophoresis (A1) was very expensive although it was sensitive. Screening the children at four health centres using the sickling method and confirming positive samples at a regional hospital (B2) was both cheap and sensitive and is therefore recommended.

UI  - 20437740
TI  - Prevalence of vitamin D deficiency in adults with sickle cell disease.
AB  - Vitamin D deficiency has been linked to fracture risk and chronic musculoskeletal pain. Adults with sickle cell disease have a high prevalence of low bone density and chronic pain with poorly defined etiologies. We recognized that vitamin D deficiency may represent a treatable etiology and sought to determine the prevalence of vitamin D deficiency in adults with sickle cell. We measured 25-hydroxy vitamin D levels in adults at 2 university-based sickle cell disease-management programs. Regression was performed in 142 patients to identify predictors of low vitamin D. Mean vitamin D levels were 9.0 ng/mL at Eastern Virginia Medical School and 12.8 ng/mL at University of Chicago; 139 of 142 (98%) had suboptimal levels (<30 ng/mL) and 85/142 (60%) were severely deficient (<10 ng/mL). Vitamin D level was not related to age, sex, hydroxyurea use, sickle cell type, or date of lab draw. Vitamin D deficiency was, therefore, nearly ubiquitous in our patient population, with a majority being severely deficient. Further studies are warranted to evaluate the effects of vitamin D repletion on clinical outcomes such as bone density, chronic musculoskeletal pain, and functional status. Clinicians caring for patients with sickle cell disease should be aware of and screen for this important clinical state.

UI  - 20416236
TI  - Antenatal screening for haemoglobinopathies in primary care: a cohort study and cluster randomised trial to inform a simulation model. The Screening for Haemoglobinopathies in First Trimester (SHIFT) trial.
AB  - Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN00677850.

UI  - 20378754
TI  - Left ventricular hypertrophy and diastolic dysfunction in children with sickle cell disease are related to asleep and waking oxygen desaturation.
AB  - Premature death and cardiac abnormalities are described in individuals with sickle cell disease (SCD), but the mechanisms are not well characterized. We tested the hypothesis that cardiac abnormalities in children with SCD are related to sleep-disordered breathing. We enrolled 44 children with SCD (mean age, 10.1 years; range, 4-18 years) in an observational study. Standard and tissue Doppler echocardiography, waking oxygen saturation averaged over 5 minutes, and overnight polysomnography were obtained in participants, each within 7 days. Eccentric left ventricular (LV) hypertrophy was present in 46% of our cohort. After multivariable adjustment, LV mass index was inversely related to average asleep and waking oxygen saturation. For every 1% drop in the average asleep oxygen saturation, there was a 2.1 g/m(2.7) increase in LV mass index. LV diastolic dysfunction, as measured by the E/E' ratio, was present in our subjects and was also associated with low oxygen saturation (sleep or waking). Elevated tricuspid regurgitant velocity (> or = 2.5 m/sec), a measure of pulmonary hypertension, was not predicted by either oxygen saturation or sleep variables with multivariable logistic regression analysis. These data provide evidence that low asleep and waking oxygen saturations are associated with LV abnormalities in children with SCD.

UI  - 20374273
TI  - Patterns of liver iron accumulation in patients with sickle cell disease and thalassemia with iron overload.
AB  - The rate and pattern of iron deposition and accumulation are important determinants of liver damage in chronically transfused patients. To investigate iron distribution patterns at various tissue iron concentrations, effects of chelation on hepatic iron compartmentalization, and differences between patients with sickle cell disease (SCD) and thalassemia major (TM), we prospectively investigated hepatic histologic and biochemical findings in 44 patients with iron overload (35 SCD and 9 TM). The median hepatic iron content (HIC) in patients with TM and SCD was similar at 12.9 and 10.3 mg Fe/g dry weight, respectively (P = 0.73), but patients with SCD had significantly less hepatic fibrosis and inflammation (P < 0.05), less hepatic injury, and significantly less blood exposure. Patients with SCD had predominantly sinusoidal iron deposition, but hepatocyte iron deposition was observed even at low HIC. Chelated patients had more hepatocyte and portal tract iron than non-chelated ones, but similar sinusoidal iron deposition. These data suggest that iron deposition in patients with SCD generally follows the traditional pattern of transfusional iron overload; however, parenchymal hepatocyte deposition also occurs early and chelation removes iron preferentially from the reticuloendothelium. Pathophysiological and genetic differences affecting iron deposition and accumulation in SCD and TM warrants further investigation.

UI  - 20370779
TI  - Adult emergency department patients with sickle cell pain crisis: a learning collaborative model to improve analgesic management.
AB  - While half of the patients had one to three ED visits during the study period, many patients had more frequent visits. Delays to receiving an initial analgesic were common, and post-ED interviews reveal that sickle cell pain patients are discharged from the ED with higher pain scores than what they perceive as desirable.

UI  - 20333511
TI  - Comparison of whole liver and small region-of-interest measurements of MRI liver R2* in children with iron overload.
AB  - Small and whole liver ROI techniques are strongly associated with biopsy liver iron content. We found slightly greater inter-reviewer variability in R2* values using the small ROI technique. Because such variability could adversely impact patient management when R2* values are near a threshold of iron chelation therapy, we recommend using a whole liver ROI.

UI  - 20230905
TI  - Assessment of genotoxicity associated with hydroxyurea therapy in children with sickle cell anemia.
AB  - Hydroxyurea induces fetal hemoglobin, improves laboratory parameters, and ameliorates clinical complications of sickle cell anemia (SCA), but its long-term efficacy and safety in this patient population remain incompletely defined. Although generally considered non-DNA reactive, an important safety concern is that hydroxyurea may indirectly cause genotoxic damage. To better address this safety issue of hydroxyurea in patients with SCA, we measured the production of micronuclei (MN) in red blood cells (RBCs) as a marker of genotoxicity. Blood samples were collected from children with SCA enrolled in the Hydroxyurea Study of Long-term Effects (ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00305175). Flow cytometry quantified circulating MN-containing erythrocyte sub-populations before and during hydroxyurea exposure. The frequency of micronucleated reticulocytes (MN-CD71(+)) and micronucleated mature erythrocytes (MN-RBC) was then tested for associations with laboratory and clinical data. In cross-sectional analysis of 293 blood samples from 105 children with SCA and a median of 2 years of hydroxyurea therapy, exposure to hydroxyurea was associated with significantly increased frequencies of MN-CD71(+) and MN-RBC compared to baseline. The increases were evident by 3 months of therapy, and did not escalate further with up to 12 years of continuous drug exposure. In prospective longitudinal analysis, substantial inter-individual variation in the effect of hydroxyurea on %MN-CD71(+) was observed that was associated with the expected laboratory effects of hydroxyurea. In conclusion, clinically relevant exposure to hydroxyurea is associated with increased MN production consistent with erythroblast genotoxicity but with substantial inter-patient variability. Associations between increased %MN-CD71(+) and laboratory benefits suggest that hydroxyurea effects on MN production may be related to individual patient sensitivity to hydroxyurea within the bone marrow.

UI  - 20201689
TI  - Design of the silent cerebral infarct transfusion (SIT) trial.
AB  - The SIT Trial could lead to a change in standard care practices for children affected with SCA and SCI, with a consequent reduction in neurological morbidity.

UI  - 20194891
TI  - Improved survival of children and adolescents with sickle cell disease.
AB  - The survival of young children with sickle cell disease (SCD) has improved, but less is known about older children and adolescents. We studied the Dallas Newborn Cohort (DNC) to estimate contemporary 18-year survival for newborns with SCD and document changes in the causes and ages of death over time. We also explored whether improvements in the quality of medical care were temporally associated with survival. The DNC now includes 940 subjects with 8857 patient-years of follow-up. Most children with sickle cell anemia (93.9%) and nearly all children with milder forms of SCD (98.4%) now live to become adults. The incidence of death and the pattern of mortality changed over the duration of the cohort. Sepsis is no longer the leading cause of death. All the recent deaths in the cohort occurred in patients 18 years or older, most shortly after the transition to adult care. Quality of care in the DNC has improved over time, with significantly more timely initial visits and preventive interventions for young children. In summary, most children with SCD now survive the childhood years, but young adults who transition to adult medical care are at high risk for early death.

UI  - 20175775
TI  - Exercise capacity and haemodynamics in patients with sickle cell disease with pulmonary hypertension treated with bosentan: results of the ASSET studies.
AB  - Doppler-defined pulmonary hypertension (PH) in sickle cell disease (SCD) is associated with 40% mortality at 40 months. To assess the effect of bosentan in SCD-PH, two randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, 16-week studies were initiated. Safety concerns are particularly relevant in SCD due to comorbid conditions. ASSET-1 and -2 enrolled patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) and pulmonary venous hypertension (PH), respectively. Haemodynamics and 6-min walk distance (6MWD) were obtained at baseline and week 16. The studies were terminated due to slow site initiation and patient enrolment (n = 26). Bosentan appeared to be well tolerated. Although sample sizes were limited, in ASSET-1 at baseline, 6MWD correlated with cardiac output (CO; P = 0.006) with non-significant inverse correlations between 6MWD and pulmonary vascular resistance (PVR; P = 0.07) and between 6MWD and right atrial pressure (P = 0.08). In ASSET-2 at baseline, there was a non-significant correlation between 6MWD and CO (P = 0.06). Due to limited sample sizes, efficacy endpoints were not analysed. However, in both studies, non-significant increases in CO were observed with bosentan compared to placebo. Similarly, non-significant decreases in PVR were observed with bosentan. Limited data in SCD-PH suggest that a low 6MWD predicts a low CO. Standard-dose bosentan appears to be well tolerated. Further investigation is warranted. Clinicaltrials.gov registration numbers NCT00310830, NCT00313196, NCT00360087.

UI  - 20135701
TI  - Variability of pulse oximetry measurement over 1 year in children with sickle cell disease depends on initial oxygen saturation measurement.
AB  - A prospective cohort of children with sickle cell disease (SCD) was evaluated to determine the variability of daytime pulse oximetry among three measurements over approximately 1 year. Fifty-eight participants were evaluated. Asymptomatic children with initial oxygen saturation < or = 92% had a mean range over 1 year of 4.6% (2.1-7.5%). In contrast, asymptomatic children whose oxygen saturation was >92% had a mean range of 1.9% (0-5.5%). These results suggest, changes in pulse oximetry measurement of approximately 5% may not be clinically significant in otherwise, healthy children with SCD with previous pulse oximetry < or = 92%.

UI  - 20116631
TI  - Immunogenicity and tolerability of a virosome influenza vaccine compared to split influenza vaccine in patients with sickle cell anemia.
AB  - The immunogenicity and tolerability of virosome and of split influenza vaccines in patients with sickle cell anemia (SS) were evaluated. Ninety SS patients from 8 to 34 years old were randomly assigned to receive either virosome (n=43) or split vaccine (n=47). Two blood samples were collected, one before and one 4-6 weeks after vaccination. Antibodies against viral strains (2006) A/New Caledonia (H1N1), A/California (H3N2), B/Malaysia were determined using the hemagglutinin inhibition test. Post-vaccine reactions were recorded over 7 days. Seroconversion rates for H1N1, H3N2 and B were 65.1%, 60.4% and 83.7% for virosome vaccine, and 68.0%, 61.7% and 68.0% for split vaccine. Seroprotection rates for H1N1, H3N2 e B were 100%, 97.6% and 69.7% for virosome, and 97.8%, 97.8% and 76.6% for split vaccine. No severe adverse reactions were recorded. Virosome and split vaccines in patients with sickle cell anemia were equally immunogenic, with high seroconversion and seroprotection rates. Both vaccines were well tolerated.

UI  - 20099672
TI  - [Total hip arthroplasty after avascular necrosis due to sickle cell disease in Senegal: series of 48 replacements].
AB  - The purpose of this study is to describe the outcome of total hip arthroplasty for management of aseptic osteonecrosis of the femoral head due to sickle cell disease. This consecutive series carried out over a 7-year period in 38 patients with a sickle-cell anaemia includes a total of 48 cemented prosthesis. The mean follow-up period was 5 years. Arthroplasty restored normal hip function (PMA score = 18) in 64% of cases. In 32% of cases the PMA score was more than 15. Pain was greatly reduced with total relief being achieved in 94% of cases. Walking ability also improved with 85% of patients having an unlimited walking distance. Radiological examination demonstrated edging on 36% of cupulas and 29% of the shafts. Complications were observed in 19% of cases. The main complications were loosening and dislocation of the prosthesis. Although the complication rate was high, functional outcomes in this series were good. These findings indicate that arthroplasty should be considered as the treatment of choice for aseptic osteonecrosis due to stage 3 and 4 sickle-cell disease in young patients. Use of uncemented implant and type of frictional torque are discussed.

UI  - 20049931
TI  - Inpatient use of laxatives during opioid administration in children with sickle cell disease.
AB  - A substantial number of hospitalized patients with SCD receiving opioids do not receive laxatives and there is unexpected variability in the use of these medications. Increased attention needs to be paid to constipation prophylaxis in patients with SCD, particularly in younger patients and post-surgical patients.

UI  - 20026413
TI  - Late-onset hemorrhagic cystitis in children after hematopoietic stem cell transplantation for thalassemia and sickle cell anemia: a prospective evaluation of polyoma (BK) virus infection and treatment with cidofovir.
AB  - Little is known about late-onset hemorrhagic cystitis (HC) in children, its relationship to BK virus, and treatment with cidofovir (CDV) following hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT). We prospectively investigated BK virus reactivation in children who underwent HSCT from a matched related donor for thalassemia or sickle cell anemia following busulfan-cyclophosphamide-based conditioning regimens and analyzed risk factors for development of HC and its treatment with CDV. Grade 2-4 HC occurred in 30 patients with a cumulative incidence of 26% (95% confidence interval [CI] = 18%-34%). The cumulative incidences of BK viruria and viremia were 81% (95% CI = 69%-89%) and 28% (95% CI = 18%-40%), respectively. Multivariate analysis revealed that use of antithymocyte globulin (ATG) (hazard ratio [HR] = 10.5; P = .001), peak BK viruria >100,000 copies/mL (HR = 6.2; P = .004), and grade II-IV acute graft-versus-host disease (HR = 5.3; P = .007) were predictive factors for HC. Nineteen patients with HC were given CDV at 1.5 mg/kg/day 3 times a week, or 5 mg/kg/week. The median duration of therapy was 27 days (range, 21-180 days), and a median of 9 doses were given (range, 6-22). All patients had a complete clinical response (CCR), and 69% had a microbiological response at 4 weeks. Eleven patients with BK virus-related HC receiving supportive care also had CCR. The median duration of HC in these patients was similar to that in patients treated with CDV. None of the patients with HC cleared BK viruria when CCR was achieved. We conclude that late-onset HC is more prevalent in children with sustained high BK viruria who are treated with ATG or who develop graft-versus-host disease. Randomized clinical trials are urgently needed to better define the role of CDV in treating BK virus-related HC.

UI  - 20018918
TI  - Fetal hemoglobin in sickle cell anemia: genome-wide association studies suggest a regulatory region in the 5' olfactory receptor gene cluster.
AB  - In a genome-wide association study of 848 blacks with sickle cell anemia, we identified single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) associated with fetal hemoglobin concentration. The most significant SNPs in a discovery sample were tested in a replication set of 305 blacks with sickle cell anemia and in subjects with hemoglobin E or beta thalassemia trait from Thailand and Hong Kong. A novel region on chromosome 11 containing olfactory receptor genes OR51B5 and OR51B6 was identified by 6 SNPs (lowest P = 4.7E-08) and validated in the replication set. An additional olfactory receptor gene, OR51B2, was identified by a novel SNP set enrichment analysis. Genome-wide association studies also validated a previously identified SNP (rs766432) in BCL11A, a gene known to affect fetal hemoglobin levels (P = 2.6E-21) and in Thailand and Hong Kong subjects. Elements within the olfactory receptor gene cluster might play a regulatory role in gamma-globin gene expression.

UI  - 20007560
TI  - Allogeneic hematopoietic stem-cell transplantation for sickle cell disease.
AB  - A protocol for nonmyeloablative allogeneic hematopoietic stem-cell transplantation that includes total-body irradiation and treatment with alemtuzumab and sirolimus can achieve stable, mixed donor-recipient chimerism and reverse the sickle cell phenotype. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00061568.)

UI  - 19903897
TI  - The effect of prolonged administration of hydroxyurea on morbidity and mortality in adult patients with sickle cell syndromes: results of a 17-year, single-center trial (LaSHS).
AB  - The aim of this prospective study was to evaluate the long-term efficacy and safety of hydroxyurea (HU) in patients with sickle cell disease (SCD). Thirty-four patients with sickle cell anemia (hemoglobin S [HbS]/HbS), 131 with HbS/beta(0)-thal, and 165 with HbS/beta(+)-thal participated in this trial. HU was administered to 131 patients, whereas 199 patients were conventionally treated. The median follow-up period was 8 years for HU patients and 5 years for non-HU patients. HU produced a dramatic reduction in the frequency of severe painful crises, transfusion requirements, hospital admissions, and incidence of acute chest syndrome. The probability of 10-year survival was 86% and 65% for HU and non-HU patients, respectively (P = .001), although HU patients had more severe forms of SCD. The 10-year probability of survival for HbS/HbS, HbS/beta (0)-thal, and HbS/IVSI-110 patients was 100%, 87%, and 82%, respectively, for HU patients and 10%, 54%, and 66%, for non-HU patients. The multivariate analysis showed that fetal hemoglobin values at baseline and percentage change of lactate dehydrogenase between baseline and 6 months were independently predicted for survival in the HU group. These results highlight the beneficial effect of HU, which seems to modify the natural history of SCD and raise the issue of expanding its use in all SCD patients.

UI  - 19900820
TI  - Plasma interleukin-1beta concentration is associated with stroke in sickle cell disease.
AB  - The pathogenesis of sickle cell disease (HbSS), which has numerous complications including stroke, involves inflammation resulting in alteration of plasma inflammatory protein concentration. We investigated HbSS children with abnormal cerebral blood flow detected by trans-cranial Doppler ultrasound (TCD) who participated in the multi-center stroke prevention (STOP) study, to determine if plasma inflammatory protein concentration is associated with the outcome of stroke. Thirty-nine plasma samples from HbSS participants with elevated TCD who had no stroke, HbSS-NS (n=13) or had stroke, HbSS-S (n=13), HbSS steady-state controls (n=7) and controls with normal hemoglobin, HbAA (n=6), were analyzed simultaneously for 27 circulating inflammatory proteins. Logistic regression and receiver operating characteristics curve analysis of stroke on plasma inflammatory mediator concentration, adjusted for age and gender, demonstrated that interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) was protective against stroke development (HbSS-NS=19, 17-23, HbSS-S=17, 16-19 pg/mL, median and 25th-75th percentile; odds ratio=0.59, C.I.=0.36-0.96) and was a good predictor of stroke (area under curve=0.852). This result demonstrates a strong association of systemic inflammation with stroke development in HbSS via moderately increased plasma IL-1beta concentration, which is furthermore associated with a decreased likelihood of stroke in HbSS.

UI  - 19880138
TI  - Renal function in infants with sickle cell anemia: baseline data from the BABY HUG trial.
AB  - Quantitative GFR measurement is feasible but variable among infants with SCA. Schwartz GFR estimates are not highly correlated with quantitative DTPA GFR values. Baseline GFR measurements suggest that renal dysfunction in SCA, evidenced by glomerular hyperfiltration, begins during infancy.

UI  - 19860305
TI  - Exposure to hydroxyurea and pregnancy outcomes in patients with sickle cell anemia.
AB  - The Multicenter Study of Hydroxyurea in Sickle Cell Anemia (MSH) was a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled trial to test whether hydroxyurea could reduce the rate of painful crises in adults who had at least 3 painful crises per year. Because hydroxyurea is known to be carcinogenic, mutagenic, and teratogenic in animals, a major inclusion criterion in MSH was the use of contraceptives both by females and males in order to avoid exposure of the fetus to hydroxyurea. Despite this precautionary measure, some women became pregnant while taking hydroxyurea or their male partners were on hydroxyurea. We followed surviving patients who were enrolled in the original MSH trial for up to 17 years postrandomization. Our findings suggest that exposure of the fetus to hydroxyurea does not cause teratogenic changes in those pregnancies that terminate in live birth whether full-term or premature. This seems to be true whether the parent taking hydroxyurea was the mother or the father. The same argument seems to apply for exposure to opioids. However, it will take a much longer follow-up of many more hydroxyurea-exposed sickle cell disease subjects to establish the results conclusively.

UI  - 19856395
TI  - Adherence to study medication and visits: data from the BABY HUG trial.
AB  - Subjects in the BABY HUG trial have had excellent adherence. SES was not associated with adherence, suggesting that SES should not be used as a criterion for enrolment in clinical trials. Additional efforts are needed to maintain medication adherence, particularly when the interval between scheduled visits increases. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00006400).

UI  - 19852829
TI  - Presumptive treatment with sulphadoxine-pyrimethamine versus weekly chloroquine for malaria prophylaxis in children with sickle cell anaemia in Uganda: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Presumptive treatment with SP was more efficacious than weekly chloroquine in reducing prevalence of malaria in children with sickle cell anaemia. Continued use of chloroquine for malaria chemoprophylaxis in children with sickle cell anaemia in Uganda does not seem to be justified.

UI  - 19822218
TI  - Pulmonary, gonadal, and central nervous system status after bone marrow transplantation for sickle cell disease.
AB  - We conducted a prospective, multicenter investigation of human-leukocyte antigen (HLA) identical sibling bone marrow transplantation (BMT) in children with severe sickle cell disease (SCD) between 1991 and 2000. To determine if children were protected from complications of SCD after successful BMT, we extended our initial study of BMT for SCD to conduct assessments of the central nervous system (CNS) and of pulmonary function 2 or more years after transplantation. In addition, the impact on gonadal function was studied. After BMT, patients with stroke who had stable engraftment of donor cells experienced no subsequent stroke events after BMT, and brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) exams demonstrated stable or improved appearance. However, 2 patients with graft rejection had a second stroke after BMT. After transplantation, most patients also had unchanged or improved pulmonary function. Among the 11 patients who had restrictive lung changes at baseline, 5 were improved and 6 had persistent restrictive disease after BMT. Of the 2 patients who had obstructive changes at baseline, 1 improved and 1 had worsened obstructive disease after BMT. There was, however, significant gonadal toxicity after BMT, particularly among female recipients. In summary, individuals who had stable donor engraftment did not experience sickle-related complications after BMT, and were protected from progressive CNS and pulmonary disease.

UI  - 19813252
TI  - Transcranial doppler ultrasonography (TCD) in infants with sickle cell anemia: baseline data from the BABY HUG trial.
AB  - Determination of whether the TCD values in this very young cohort of infants with SCA can be used to predict stroke risk later in childhood will require analysis of exit TCD's and long-term follow-up, which is ongoing (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00006400).

UI  - 19737308
TI  - Absence of cardiac siderosis by MRI T2* despite transfusion burden, hepatic and serum iron overload in Lebanese patients with sickle cell disease.
AB  - Our study demonstrates that TR is a stronger predictor of iron overload than TLT. It also confirms cardiac sparing in patients with SCD, even in subjects with significant transfusion burden, systemic and hepatic iron overload.

UI  - 19731330
TI  - The pediatric hydroxyurea phase III clinical trial (BABY HUG): challenges of study design.
AB  - Evidence of the laboratory benefits of hydroxyurea and its clinical efficacy in reducing acute vaso-occlusive events in adults and children with sickle cell anemia has accumulated for more than 15 years. A definitive clinical trial showing that hydroxyurea can also prevent organ damage might support widespread use of the drug at an early age. BABY HUG is a randomized, double-blind placebo-controlled trial to test whether treating young children ages 9-17 months at entry with a liquid preparation of hydroxyurea (20 mg/kg/day for 2 years) can decrease organ damage in the kidneys and spleen by at least 50%. Creation of BABY HUG entailed unique challenges and opportunities. Although protection of brain function might be considered a more compelling endpoint, preservation of spleen and renal function has clinical relevance, and significant treatment effects might be discernable within the mandated sample size of 200. Concerns about unanticipated severe toxicity and burdensome testing and monitoring requirements were addressed in part by an internal Feasibility and Safety Pilot Study, the successful completion of which was required prior to enrolling a larger number of children on the protocol. Concerns over recruitment of potentially vulnerable subjects were allayed by inclusion of a research subject advocate, or ombudsman. Finally, maintenance of blinding of research personnel was aided by inclusion of an unblinded primary endpoint person, charged with transmitting endpoint data and monitoring blood work locally for toxicity (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00006400).

UI  - 19721013
TI  - Serum ferritin level changes in children with sickle cell disease on chronic blood transfusion are nonlinear and are associated with iron load and liver injury.
AB  - Chronic blood transfusion is increasingly indicated in patients with sickle cell disease. Measuring resulting iron overload remains a challenge. Children without viral hepatitis enrolled in 2 trials for stroke prevention were examined for iron overload (STOP and STOP2; n = 271). Most received desferrioxamine chelation. Serum ferritin (SF) changes appeared nonlinear compared with prechelation estimated transfusion iron load (TIL) or with liver iron concentrations (LICs). Averaged correlation coefficient between SF and TIL (patients/observations, 26 of 164) was r = 0.70; between SF and LIC (patients/observations, 33 of 47) was r = 0.55. In mixed models, SF was associated with LIC (P = .006), alanine transaminase (P = .025), and weight (P = .026). Most patients with SF between 750 and 1500 ng/mL had a TIL between 25 and 100 mg/kg (72.8% +/- 5.9%; patients/observations, 24 of 50) or an LIC between 2.5 and 10 mg/g dry liver weight (75% +/- 0%; patients/observations, 8 of 9). Most patients with SF of 3000 ng/mL or greater had a TIL of 100 mg/kg or greater (95.3% +/- 6.7%; patients/observations, 7 of 16) or an LIC of 10 mg/g dry liver weight or greater (87.7% +/- 4.3%; patients/observations, 11 of 18). Although SF changes are nonlinear, levels less than 1500 ng/mL indicated mostly acceptable iron overload; levels of 3000 ng/mL or greater were specific for significant iron overload and were associated with liver injury. However, to determine accurately iron overload in patients with intermediately elevated SF levels, other methods are required. These trials are registered at www.clinicaltrials.gov as #NCT00000592 and #NCT00006182.

UI  - 19717646
TI  - A randomized, controlled clinical trial of ketoprofen for sickle-cell disease vaso-occlusive crises in adults.
AB  - Vaso-occlusive crisis (VOC) is the primary cause of hospitalization of patients with sickle-cell disease. Treatment mainly consists of intravenous morphine, which has many dose-related side effects. Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs have been proposed to provide pain relief and decrease the need for opioids. Nevertheless, only a few underpowered trials of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs for sickle-cell VOC have been conducted, and conflicting results were reported. We conducted a phase 3, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial with ketoprofen (300 mg/day for 5 days), a nonselective cyclooxygenase inhibitor, for severe VOC in adults. A total of 66 VOC episodes were included. The primary efficacy outcome was VOC duration. The secondary end points were morphine consumption, pain relief, and treatment failure. Seven VOC episodes in each group were excluded from the analysis because of treatment failures. No significant between-group differences were observed for the primary outcome or the secondary end points. Thus, although ketoprofen was well-tolerated, it had no significant efficacy as treatment of VOC requiring hospitalization. These findings argue against its systematic use in this setting.

UI  - 19712051
TI  - Prevalence of sickle cell disease in a northeastern region of the Democratic Republic of Congo: what impact on transfusion policy?
AB  - Transfusion therapy may save the lives of patients with sickle cell disease (SCD), but it is also associated with a high risk of transmission of infection. The aims of this study were to determine the prevalence of SCD in a northeastern region of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), and to define ways in which the procedures involved in the security of transfusions should be improved. During a 3-month period in 2006/2007, 520 samples of umbilical cord blood were obtained through neonatal screening in five health centres in Kisangani. The samples were analysed using an isoelectric focusing technique. The estimated prevalence of sickle cell trait and SCD in the population tested was 23.3 and 0.96%, respectively. These numbers will be presented for the attention of the health authorities in DRC with responsibility for SCD and they will be asked to consider improvements in treatment procedures for SCD, such as blood transfusions, as a public health priority.

UI  - 19699350
TI  - Prospective echocardiography assessment of pulmonary hypertension and its potential etiologies in children with sickle cell disease.
AB  - Pulmonary hypertension (PH) is associated with adverse outcomes in adults with sickle-cell disease (SCD), but its importance in children is less clear. The aim of this study was to define the incidence and causes of PH in pediatric patients with SCD. Children with SCD (n = 310) and matched controls (n = 54) were prospectively enrolled under basal conditions. Participants underwent echocardiography, pulse oximetry, 6-minute walk tests, and hematologic testing. Echocardiographic measures were compared between patients with SCD and control subjects before and after adjusting for hemoglobin. Correlations of echocardiographic and clinical parameters were determined. Tricuspid regurgitation velocity (TRV) was elevated compared to controls (2.28 vs 2.10 m/s, p <0.0001). Increased TRV was associated with left ventricular diastolic diameter, hemoglobin, and estimated left atrial pressure. TRV remained elevated when controlling for left ventricular diameter and left atrial pressure. Echocardiographically derived pulmonary resistance was not significantly different between patients with SCD and controls, although it was elevated in the SCD subgroup with elevated TRV. When controlling for hemoglobin, TRV was no longer statistically different, but pulmonary insufficiency velocity, septal wall thickness, and estimated pulmonary resistance were statistically higher. TRV, pulmonary insufficiency end-diastolic velocity, and markers of increased cardiac output were correlated with indicators of adverse functional status, including history of acute chest syndrome, stroke, transfusions, and 6-minute walk distance. In conclusion, children with SCD had mildly increased TRV that was correlated with increased cardiac output and left ventricular filling pressures. Hemoglobin-adjusted analysis also suggested a contribution of primary vascular changes.

UI  - 19694721
TI  - Prospective evaluation of haemoglobin oxygen saturation at rest and after exercise in paediatric sickle cell disease patients.
AB  - Low steady state haemoglobin oxygen saturation in patients with sickle cell anaemia has been associated with the degree of anaemia and haemolysis. How much pulmonary dysfunction contributes to low saturation is not clear. In a prospective study of children and adolescents with sickle cell disease aged 3-20 years at steady state and matched controls, 52% of 391 patients versus 24% of 63 controls had steady state oxygen saturation <99% (P < 0.0001), 9% of patients versus no controls had saturation <95% (P = 0.008) and 8% of patients versus no controls had exercise-induced reduction in saturation > or =3%. Decreasing haemoglobin concentration (P < or = 0.001) and increasing haemolysis (P < or = 0.003) but not pulmonary function tests were independent predictors of both lower steady-state saturation and exercise-induced reduction in saturation. Neither history of stroke nor history of acute chest syndrome was significantly associated with lower steady-state oxygen saturation or exercise-induced reduction in saturation. Tricuspid regurgitation velocity was higher in patients with lower steady state haemoglobin oxygen saturation (P = 0.003) and with greater decline in oxygen saturation during the six-minute walk (P = 0.022). In conclusion, lower haemoglobin oxygen saturation is independently associated with increasing degrees of anaemia and haemolysis but not pulmonary function abnormalities among children and adolescents with sickle cell disease.

UI  - 19683393
TI  - Climatic and geographic temporal patterns of pain in the Multicenter Study of Hydroxyurea.
AB  - No multi-site comparisons have tested whether seasonally cold temperature or climate exacerbate pain intensity in sickle cell disease (SCD). We examined seasonal SCD pain intensity and frequency patterns and compared them with concurrent climate conditions (temperature and barometric pressure) and geography of patient residence in the Multicenter Study of Hydroxyurea (MSH). We conducted a time series analysis of the monthly average daily pain intensity (0-9 scale) and pain frequency of the 299 MSH patients from December 1991 to December 1994. We used both an unobserved component model (UCM) and a nonparametric local regression (LOESS) to probe for a cycle and/or trend associated with the time series. We also examined base mixed regression models of season, monthly average temperature and barometric pressure, and geographic region as stand-alone predictors of pain intensity and frequency. Expanded models included additional predictor variables. UCM and LOESS analyses showed a cyclic pattern of pain intensity and frequency with peaks in late Fall/early Winter and troughs in Spring. Base regression models showed colder seasons were significantly associated with greater pain intensity (p = .0035) but not frequency (p = .07); higher monthly temperatures were significantly associated with both lower pain intensity and pain frequency, but higher monthly barometric pressures were significantly associated with greater pain intensity and frequency (all p's < .0001); and northern sites had nonsignificantly higher pain intensity (p = .40) and frequency (p = .07) than southern sites. This pattern of results did not change in expanded models including other predictors. Our results suggest that seasonably colder temperatures exacerbate sickle cell-related pain, but low barometric pressure does not, and geographic region of residence is not significantly related to pain in this sample.

UI  - 19636266
TI  - Perceived barriers to clinic appointments for adolescents with sickle cell disease.
AB  - Adolescents with sickle cell disease and their families may benefit from ongoing education about the importance of attending routine clinic visits. Adherence to clinic appointments for adolescents may be enhanced by developing interventions to decrease forgetting (eg, phone call reminders or text messaging) and increase patient satisfaction with clinic visits. Scheduling appointments to accommodate busy schedules/scheduling conflicts (eg, late clinic hours), providing teen-friendly clinic environments, and using technology may also facilitate attendance.

UI  - 19621454
TI  - Urine concentrating ability in infants with sickle cell disease: baseline data from the phase III trial of hydroxyurea (BABY HUG).
AB  - Even with often limited fluid deprivation, 77.2% of young infants with sickle cell anemia were able to concentrate urine. Preservation of concentrating ability was associated with higher fetal hemoglobin concentration. Assessment will be repeated after 2 years of hydroxyurea or placebo treatment (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00006400).

UI  - 19570752
TI  - Auto-adjusting positive airway pressure in children with sickle cell anemia: results of a phase I randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Low nocturnal oxygen saturation (SpO(2)) is implicated in complications of Sickle Cell Anemia (SCA). Twenty-four children with SCA were randomized to receive overnight auto-adjusting continuous positive airway pressure (auto-CPAP) with supplemental oxygen, if required, to maintain SpO(2) >or=94% or as controls. We assessed adherence, safety, sleep parameters, cognition and pain. Twelve participants randomized to auto-CPAP (3 with oxygen) showed improvement in Apnea/Hypopnea Index (p<0.001), average desaturation events >3%/hour (p=0.02), mean nocturnal SpO(2) (p=0.02) and cognition. Primary efficacy endpoint (Processing Speed Index) showed no group differences (p=0.67), but a second measure of processing speed and attention (Cancellation) improved in those receiving treatment (p=0.01). No bone marrow suppression, rebound pain or serious adverse event resulting from auto-CPAP use was observed. Six weeks of auto-CPAP therapy is feasible and safe in children with SCA, significantly improving sleep-related breathing disorders and at least one aspect of cognition.

UI  - 19536844
TI  - Improvement in hemolysis and pulmonary arterial systolic pressure in adult patients with sickle cell disease during treatment with hydroxyurea.
AB  - 

UI  - 19520455
TI  - [Contribution of indocyanine green angiography in sickle cell retinopathy].
AB  - This study is the first to use ICG in sickle cell retinopathy. The rarefaction of the choriocapillaris observed may be related to the systemic disease. However, it must be compared with the choriocapillaris of normal subjects at the same age.

UI  - 19357842
TI  - The pharmacokinetics of codeine and its metabolites in Blacks with sickle cell disease.
AB  - We conclude that Blacks with sickle cell disease without measurable plasma morphine levels after a single dose of codeine were not more likely to be a carrier of a single variant allele commonly associated with reduced CYP2D6 metabolic capacity; however, homozygosity for a variant CYP2D6 allele may result in reduced metabolic capacity. Furthermore, it appears that subjects without measurable morphine concentrations were more likely to be admitted to the hospital for an acute pain crisis.

UI  - 19344396
TI  - Chronic transfusion practice for children with sickle cell anaemia and stroke.
AB  - Chronic transfusions to maintain haemoglobin S (HbS) < or =30% are the mainstay of treatment for children with sickle cell anaemia (SCA) and previous stroke. This HbS target is often hard to maintain, however, and values achieved in current practice are unknown. In preparation for the Phase III Stroke With Transfusions Changing to Hydroxyurea (SWiTCH) trial, we collected data on 295 children with SCA and stroke who received transfusions at 23 institutions. The overall average pre-transfusion %HbS was 35 +/- 11% (institutional range 22-51%). Receiving scheduled transfusions on time was the most predictive variable for maintaining HbS at the < or =30% goal.

UI  - 19321506
TI  - Intranasal diamorphine for acute sickle cell pain.
AB  - The painful crisis is the commonest acute presentation of sickle cell disease (SCD), yet effective pain control in hospital is often delayed, inadequate and dependent on injected opiates. Intranasal diamorphine (IND) has been used in paediatric emergency departments for management of acute pain associated with fractures, but the analgesic effect is short lived. We evaluated its efficacy and safety when given in combination with intravenous or oral morphine for rapid analgesia for children presenting to our emergency department with painful crisis of SCD. In phase 1, nine patients received IND plus intravenous morphine. In phase 2, 13 received IND plus oral morphine. There was a rapid improvement in pain score; the proportions in severe pain at t = 0, 15, 30 and 120 minutes in phase 1 were 78%, 11%, 0% and 11%, respectively; in phase 2, 77%, 30%, 15% and 0%, respectively. There were no serious side effects and questionnaire scores indicated that children found IND effective and acceptable. IND can be recommended for acute control of sickle pain in children presenting to hospital.

UI  - 19309475
TI  - Exchange versus simple transfusion for acute chest syndrome in sickle cell anemia adults.
AB  - Based on postprocedure length of stay or total length of stay, we could not detect a difference in the efficacy of XC compared to ST in populations despite red blood cell product usage fourfold higher in the XC group. We suggest that it is time for an adequately powered, randomized trial to examine the true risk:benefit ratio of XC in ACS.

UI  - 19282374
TI  - A randomized controlled trial of massage therapy in children with sickle cell disease.
AB  - These results offer preliminary support for parent-delivered massage therapy as an intervention for SCD pain.

UI  - 19255393
TI  - Sickle cell disease in children: differentiating osteomyelitis from vaso-occlusive crisis.
AB  - In the clinical scenario of a child with sickle cell disease presenting with bony pain and swelling affecting a single site, with prolonged fever and pain, the physician should consider closer monitoring and investigations to exclude a diagnosis of osteomyelitis.

UI  - 19255344
TI  - Predictors of cerebral arteriopathy in children with arterial ischemic stroke: results of the International Pediatric Stroke Study.
AB  - Arteriopathy is prevalent among children with arterial ischemic stroke, particularly those presenting in early school age, and those with a history of sickle cell disease. Recent upper respiratory infection predicted cerebral arteriopathy and FCA in particular, suggesting a possible role for infection in the pathogenesis of these lesions.

UI  - 19246889
TI  - Painful crises in children with sickle cell disease are not prevented by piracetam.
AB  - 

UI  - 19231043
TI  - Alpha-lipoic acid modifies oxidative stress parameters in sickle cell trait subjects and sickle cell patients.
AB  - ALA treatment protected AA individuals from oxidative damage to lipids and proteins. In SCD subjects, the dose applied was not effective to prevent the oxidative damage.

UI  - 19211639
TI  - Elevated tricuspid regurgitant jet velocity in children and adolescents with sickle cell disease: association with hemolysis and hemoglobin oxygen desaturation.
AB  - According to a pediatric-specific definition the prevalence of elevated jet velocity in this population of young patients with sickle cell disease was 11%. The study provides evidence for independent associations of elevated jet velocity with hemolysis and oxygen desaturation. Further investigations should address whether elevated jet velocity may indicate future complications and whether early intervention is beneficial.

UI  - 19103860
TI  - Newborn screening for sickle cell disease in the Republic of Benin.
AB  - The results demonstrate that this specifically tailored strategy is relevant to this setting, given the unique conditions of this African country.

UI  - 19061213
TI  - A pilot study of hydroxyurea to prevent chronic organ damage in young children with sickle cell anemia.
AB  - These pilot data indicate hydroxyurea at MTD is well-tolerated by both children and families, and may prevent chronic organ damage in young children with SCA.

UI  - 19029141
TI  - Use of handheld wireless technology for a home-based sickle cell pain management protocol.
AB  - Wireless data transfer technology has significant potential to become a practical method to improve symptom monitoring and communication between patients and providers.

UI  - 19023114
TI  - Proteomic identification of altered apolipoprotein patterns in pulmonary hypertension and vasculopathy of sickle cell disease.
AB  - Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is emerging as a major complication and independent risk factor for death among adults with sickle cell disease (SCD). Using surface-enhanced laser desorption/ionization time of flight mass spectrometry (SELDI-TOF MS), we searched for biomarkers of PAH in plasma specimens from 27 homozygous sickle cell anemia (HbSS) patients with PAH and 28 without PAH. In PAH patients, analysis consistently showed lower abundance of a 28.1-kDa peak (P < .001), identified by high-resolution mass spectrometry as the oxidant-scavenging protein apolipoprotein A-I (apoA-I), which correlated with clinical assays of apoA-I (r = .58, P < .001) and high-density lipoprotein (HDL) levels (r = .50, P = .001). Consistent with endothelial dysfunction that may mediate this effect in PAH, HbSS patients with lower apoA-I levels also displayed impaired vasodilatory responses to acetylcholine (mean +/- SEM, 189% +/- 34% [n = 13] vs 339% +/- 51% [n = 13], P < .001). As a group, patients with SCD demonstrated significantly lower apoA-I levels than African-American control subjects. The PAH cohort was further characterized by high levels of apolipoproteins A-II and B and serum amyloid A, and low levels of haptoglobin dimers and plasminogen. These results imply a relationship of apolipoproteins to the development of PAH vasculopathy in SCD, potentially involving an unexpected mechanistic parallel to atherosclerosis, another proliferative vasculopathy.

UI  - 19009214
TI  - Extramedullary hematopoiesis: findings on computed tomography scans of the chest in 6 patients.
AB  - There are findings in computed tomography scans that are highly suggestive of extramedullary hematopoiesis, especially when those findings correlate with underlying blood diseases. Such findings, in most of the cases, allow physicians to dispense with histopathological confirmation.

UI  - 19000399
TI  - Maximising recruitment and retention of general practices in clinical trials: a case study.
AB  - Three factors appeared important in recruiting practices: research topic, invitation method, and interest in research. Three factors appeared important in retaining practices: good communication, easy data-collection methods, and payment upon meeting pre-agreed targets. The effectiveness of these factors at facilitating recruitment and retention requires assessment in experimental studies.

UI  - 18954999
TI  - Hydroxyurea in sickle cell disease--a study of clinico-pharmacological efficacy in the Indian haplotype.
AB  - There is clinical variability in the presentation of sickle cell disease among Indians. Vaso-occlusive crisis is common among non-tribal patients. Hydroxyurea, induces fetal hemoglobin (HbF) synthesis and reduces the clinical severity of sickle cell disease but individual patients have a variable response. This study was undertaken to investigate the efficacy and safety of hydroxyurea in Indians with severe manifestations where the beta(s) gene is linked to the Arab-Indian haplotype and is associated with higher HbF levels. Seventy-seven patients (29 adult sickle homozygous, 25 pediatric sickle homozygous, 23 adult sickle beta-thalassemia) selected for hydroxyurea therapy were evaluated for clinical, hematological, biochemical and genetic parameters and were followed for 24 months. Ninety-eight point seven percent of the sickle chromosomes were linked to the Arab-Indian haplotype, 27% of patients had associated alpha thalassemia and 65% were Xmn I +/+. Seventy-eight percent of the patients had no further crises after starting hydroxyurea. This effect was accompanied by a significant increase in HbF (p<0.001), but this increase was variable in individual cases. There was also an increase in gamma gene mRNA expression in the few cases so studied. Hemoglobin levels increased significantly (p<0.001) resulting in the cessation of blood transfusions. Leucopoenia was observed in one patient. Hydroxyurea was effective in reducing the clinical severity in Indian patients who initially had higher HbF levels and the presence of ameliorating factors, such as alpha-thalassemia and the Xmn I polymorphism. Hydroxyurea therapy with careful monitoring can thus change the quality of life of Indians with sickle cell disease.

UI  - 18946577
TI  - The prevalence of sickle cell disease in Saudi children and adolescents. A community-based survey.
AB  - The results of this national wide community-based survey show a high prevalence of sickle cell disease in the community and the disease is more common in eastern and southern regions of the country. National or regional newborn screening programs for sickle cell disease using hematological tests should be planed. This study shows that the population at risk has an uneven geographical distribution. For this reason, selective rather than universal neonatal screening is likely to be more appropriate in the country.

UI  - 18940682
TI  - Stable long-term donor engraftment following reduced-intensity hematopoietic cell transplantation for sickle cell disease.
AB  - Reduced-intensity conditioning (RIC) regimens have the potential to decrease toxicities related to hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HCT) in patients with sickle cell disease (SCD) and thus make HCT a more acceptable therapeutic option for this group of patients. We report the results of 7 patients enrolled on a study to evaluate safety and efficacy of HCT using bone marrow from an HLA matched sibling donor following an RIC regimen for patients with high-risk SCD. The conditioning regimen consisted of busulfan, fludarabine, equine antithymocyte globulin, and total lymphoid irradiation with shielding of the liver, lungs, heart, and gonads on day 1. Graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) prophylaxis consisted of cyclosporine and mycophenolate mofetil. The regimen was well tolerated, and all patients had hematopoietic recovery. Six of 7 patients are stably engrafted off immunosuppression and without sickle cell-related symptoms at 2 to 8.5 years after HCT. Consistent with the complete resolution of SCD related symptoms observed in the 6 engrafted patients, erythropoiesis of complete or predominantly donor origin was detected by red blood cell-specific chimerism assays, despite their having persistent mixed chimerism in the mononuclear and lymphoid compartments. These findings demonstrate the curative potential of allogeneic HCT after an RIC regimen in patients with SCD.

UI  - 18926392
TI  - Evaluation of 107 patients with sickle cell anemia through tissue Doppler and myocardial performance index.
AB  - This Doppler echocardiographic study showed that early abnormalities in systolic and diastolic function can occur at an early age in SCA, even among children and adolescents in New York Heart Association functional classes I and II.

UI  - 18843058
TI  - Derivation of a risk assessment tool for emergency department patients with sickle cell disease.
AB  - Those ED variables predictive of 96-h adverse sickle cell patient outcomes can be identified and combined into a risk score. Prospective validation is necessary before any clinical decision-making based on this score.

UI  - 18789462
TI  - Dynamics of Plasmodium falciparum alleles in children with normal haemoglobin and with sickle cell trait in western Uganda.
AB  - We describe the diversity of Plasmodium falciparum populations in western Uganda and assess the role that asymptomatic malaria carriers with sickle cell trait (HbAS) may be playing on the Plasmodium population structure. We genotyped P. falciparum in 291 samples using merozoite surface protein (MSP) 1 and 2 loci. Extensive genetic diversity was detected among symptomatic children in Mbarara (20 MSP1 alleles; 31 MSP2 alleles) and Kagando, Kasese (19 MSP1 alleles; 30 MSP2 alleles). Multiplicity of infection (MOI) was significantly higher in Kagando, Kasese than in Mbarara, with 2.7 and 2.1 genotypes/PCR positive sample with MSP2 marker, respectively. Similar strains were circulating in the two sites; however, a few strains specific to individual sites were observed. Prevalence of HbAS was 36% (12/33) among asymptomatic children in Kisinga sub-county, Kasese. In asymptomatic children, MOI was age-dependent and higher in HbAS carriers than HbAA, suggesting that HbAS carriers harbour a wider range of P. falciparum genotypes. Sickle cell trait may influence rapid acquisition of premunition by creating a reservoir of variant parasite strains in the host. The high level of genetic diversity demonstrated here shows that even in areas with low or seasonal transmission, high levels of parasite polymorphism can occur.

UI  - 18772456
TI  - G6PD deficiency, absence of alpha-thalassemia, and hemolytic rate at baseline are significant independent risk factors for abnormally high cerebral velocities in patients with sickle cell anemia.
AB  - Stroke is predicted by abnormally high cerebral velocities by transcranial doppler (TCD). This study aimed at defining predictive factors for abnormally high velocities (>/= 2 m/sec) based on the Crteil pediatric sickle cell anemia (SCA) cohort composed of 373 stroke-free SCA children. alpha genes and beta-globin haplotypes were determined. Biologic parameters were obtained at baseline. alpha-thalassemia was present in 155 of 325 and G6PD deficiency in 36 of 325 evaluated patients. TCD was abnormal in 62 of 373 patients. Multivariate logistic regression analysis showed that G6PD deficiency (odds ratio [OR] = 3.36, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.10-10.33; P = .034), absence of alpha-thalassemia (OR = 6.45, 95% CI 2.21-18.87; P = .001), hemoglobin (OR per g/dL = 0.63, 95% CI 0.41-0.97; P = .038), and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) levels (OR per IU/L = 1.001, 95% CI 1.000-1.002; P = .047) were independent risk factors for abnormally high velocities. This study confirms the protective effect of alpha-thalassemia and shows for the first time that G6PD deficiency and hemolysis independently increase the risk of cerebral vasculopathy.

UI  - 18764867
TI  - The presence of alpha-thalassaemia trait blunts the response to hydroxycarbamide in patients with sickle cell disease.
AB  - Hydroxycarbamide (HC), although a key drug therapy in sickle cell disease (SCD), does not result in a clinical response in all patients. Increases in fetal haemoglobin (HbF) and mean corpuscular volume of erythrocytes are standard clinical measures of HC efficacy in SCD. Genetic studies have determined that the majority of HbF regulation occurs outside the beta-globin locus. Approximately 30% of SCD patients have co-inherited alpha-thalassaemia resulting in hypochromic and microcytic erythrocytes. We provide data from 30 SCD patients (10 with alpha-thalassaemia) demonstrating that co-existing alpha-thalassaemia significantly affects several standard measures of HC efficacy in SCD.

UI  - 18755637
TI  - Effects of strenuous exercise on autonomic nervous system activity in sickle cell trait carriers.
AB  - This study compared the nocturnal autonomic nervous system (ANS) activity in seven sickle cell trait (SCT) carriers and six subjects with normal hemoglobin in response to exercise Sympathetic and parasympathetic indices of nocturnal ANS were measured in the two groups before and 24 and 48 h after a strenuous exercise consisting of the repetition of three maximal exercise bouts. Global ANS activity decreased 24 h after exercise in both groups and was lower before as well as after exercise in SCT carriers. Indices of parasympathetic activity were lower in SCT carriers at all times, indicating a persistent sympatho-vagal imbalance. Exercise did not cause a rebound in parasympathetic activity in either group, but a rebound was noted for sympathetic index values two days after exercise in SCT group only. The ANS activity was generally lower, and the sympatho-vagal imbalance greater, in SCT carriers compared with control subjects irrespective of exercise and could increase the risk for medical complications in this population.

UI  - 18729854
TI  - Association between wind speed and the occurrence of sickle cell acute painful episodes: results of a case-crossover study.
AB  - The role of the weather as a trigger of sickle cell acute painful episodes has long been debated. To more accurately describe the role of the weather as a trigger of painful events, we conducted a case-crossover study of the association between local weather conditions and the occurrence of painful episodes. From the Cooperative Study of Sickle Cell Disease, we identified 813 patients with sickle cell anaemia who had 3570 acute painful episodes. We found an association between wind speed and the onset of pain, specifically wind speed during the 24-h period preceding the onset of pain. Analysing wind speed as a categorical trait, showed a 13% increase (95% confidence interval: 3%, 24%) in odds of pain, when comparing the high wind speed to lower wind speed (P = 0.007). In addition, the association between wind speed and painful episodes was found to be stronger among men, particularly those in the warmer climate regions of the United States. These results are in agreement with another study that found an association between wind speed and hospital visits for pain in the United Kingdom, and lends support to physiological and clinical studies that have suggested that skin cooling is associated with sickle vasoocclusion and perhaps pain.

UI  - 18674741
TI  - Zinc supplementation decreases oxidative stress, incidence of infection, and generation of inflammatory cytokines in sickle cell disease patients.
AB  - Zinc deficiency is common in adult sickle-cell disease (SCD) patients. We previously demonstrated that zinc supplementation to adult SCD patients decreased the incidences of infections and hospital admissions. We hypothesize that zinc supplementation improves T-helper cell function and decreases vascular endothelial cell activation, oxidative stress, and nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-kappaB)-DNA binding in mononuclear cells (MNCs) in SCD patients. To test this hypothesis, 36 SCD patients were recruited and randomly divided into 2 groups. One group (n = 18) received 25-mg zinc orally thrice a day for 3 months. The other group (n = 18) received placebo. The results indicate that the zinc-supplemented group had decreased incidence of infections compared with the placebo group. After zinc supplementation, red blood cell, hemoglobin (Hb), hematocrit, (Hct), plasma zinc, and antioxidant power increased; plasma nitrite and nitrate (NOx), lipid peroxidation products, DNA oxidation products, and soluble vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 decreased in the zinc-supplemented group, compared with the placebo group. Zinc-supplemented patients exhibited significant decreases in lipopolysaccharide-induced tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and IL-1beta mRNAs, and TNF-induced nuclear factor of kappaB-DNA binding in MNCs, compared with the placebo group. Ex vivo addition of zinc to MNCs isolated from the placebo subjects decreased TNF-alpha and IL-1beta mRNAs. Zinc supplementation also increased relative levels of IL-2 and IL-2Ralpha mRNAs in phytohemagglutinin-p-stimulated MNCs. These results suggest that zinc supplementation may be beneficial to SCD patients.

UI  - 18671702
TI  - Sodium nitrite promotes regional blood flow in patients with sickle cell disease: a phase I/II study.
AB  - In addition to vaso-occlusion by sickled erythrocytes, the pathophysiology of sickle cell disease (SCD) is compounded by the diminished bioavailability of nitric oxide (NO), associated with vasoconstriction, endothelial activation and cell adhesion. We tested the ability of sodium nitrite, which can be converted to NO by deoxyhaemoglobin at acid pH and low oxygen tension, to improve blood flow in patients with SCD. In a phase I/II clinical trial, sodium nitroprusside, NG-monomethyl-L-arginine, and sodium nitrite were infused sequentially into the brachial artery in 14 patients at steady state. In a dose-dependent manner, sodium nitrite infusion rates of 0.4, 4 and 40 micromol/min into the brachial artery augmented mean venous plasma nitrite concentrations (P < 0.0001) and stimulated forearm blood flow up to 77 +/- 11% above baseline (P < 0.0001), measured by venous occlusion strain gauge plethysmography. This nitrite response was blunted significantly compared to controls without SCD, as previously seen with other NO donors. Sodium nitrite infusions were well tolerated without hypotension, clinically significant methaemoglobinaemia or other untoward events. The unique pharmacological properties of nitrite as a hypoxia-potentiated vasodilator and cytoprotective agent in the setting of ischaemia-reperfusion injury make this anion a plausible NO donor for future clinical trials in SCD.

UI  - 18665829
TI  - l-selectin gene polymorphisms and complications of sickle cell disease.
AB  - We had found high expression of L-selectin and alphaMbeta2 integrin on leukocytes in patients with complications of sickle cell disease (SCD). In non-SCD patients, L-selectin polymorphisms are associated with vasculopathy and nephropathy. Our objective was to determine if L-selectin gene polymorphisms affect leukocyte expression of the protein, or the development of complications in SCD. By polymerase chain reaction with sequence-specific primers incorporating mismatches at the 3'-end, we analysed DNA from 142 HbSS patients and 102 healthy, racially matched, HbAA controls; to detect the F206L, T49S, and P213S L-selectin gene polymorphisms. All patients were assessed for complications of SCD. Steady-state expression of L-selectin on leukocytes was measured by flow cytometry in 44 patients. We excluded HbSS patients on hydroxyurea, with any other disease, pregnancy, or HbF > or = 10%. There were no significant differences in distribution of F206L, T49S or P213S l-selectin gene polymorphisms between patients and controls (chi(2) = 0.1, P > 0.05). There was no association between any of these gene polymorphisms and high expression of L-selectin by leukocytes, or the development of complications in SCD (chi(2) = 2.37, P > 0.05). The findings suggest that these three gene polymorphisms do not predispose to high leukocyte expression of L-selectin, or development of complications in SCD.

UI  - 18577791
TI  - Iron deficiency anaemia in sickle cell disorders in India.
AB  - This study suggests that iron deficiency anaemia is an important problem in Indian sickle cell anaemia patients and iron supplementation should be given only in proven cases of iron deficiency anaemia.

UI  - 18543345
TI  - Pilot study of continuous co-infusion of morphine and naloxone in children with sickle cell pain crisis.
AB  - Patients with sickle cell disease experience painful crises that often require hospitalization for a continuous infusion of morphine that may cause significant pruritus. We conducted a pilot study to determine the feasibility of simultaneous continuous co-infusion of naloxone with morphine, test novel assessment instruments for pruritus, and explore whether pruritus could be reduced while maintaining effective analgesia. Patients with sickle cell disease and painful crisis requiring continuous infusion morphine received continuous co-infusion of naloxone at 0.25 (low dose) or 1.0 mcg/kg x hr (high dose). Pain scores were obtained using the FACES scale and a 100-mm visual analog scale (VAS). Itching was quantified by a modified VAS score. Evaluable data were obtained on 16 patients. Simultaneous co-infusion of naloxone and morphine was feasible, did not seem to reduce the analgesic efficacy of morphine, and was associated with no adverse effects. The high dose group reported a lower median "VAS worst itch" score than the low dose group (4.8 vs. 7.3, P = 0.08). Simultaneous continuous infusion of naloxone with morphine in pediatric patients with sickle cell disease and pain crisis was feasible and well tolerated. A quantitative pruritus score allowed us to systematically measure pruritus. Further evaluation by randomized, placebo-controlled study of 1 mcg/kg x hr naloxone in this setting is required.

UI  - 18513257
TI  - Disparity in the management of iron overload between patients with sickle cell disease and thalassemia who received transfusions.
AB  - These data highlight the unsystematic monitoring of iron and related organ injury in SCD. Until the relationship between iron and related comorbidities is better understood, routine monitoring of iron overload in SCD patients who receive transfusions should be considered a standard part of clinical care.

UI  - 18508803
TI  - Influence of sickle cell disease and treatment with hydroxyurea on sperm parameters and fertility of human males.
AB  - The observed alterations of semen parameters due to sickle cell disease seem to be exacerbated by hydroxyurea treatment. Until prospective studies reveal reassuring findings, we suggest that a pre-treatment sperm analysis be performed and sperm cryopreservation be offered to patients before hydroxyurea treatment.

UI  - 18478575
TI  - MRI abnormalities of the brain in one-year-old children with sickle cell anemia.
AB  - Silent brain infarcts occur in a small but significant number of infants with SCA as early as a year of age. This finding indicates a need for thorough evaluation of the CNS very early in life in children with SCA in order to develop timely intervention strategies.

UI  - 18430624
TI  - Fracture prevalence and relationship to endocrinopathy in iron overloaded patients with sickle cell disease and thalassemia.
AB  - Transfusional iron overload leads to gonadal failure and low bone mass in patients with thalassemia (Thal). However, gonadal failure is rarely reported in transfused patients with sickle cell disease (SCD) and the literature regarding fracture prevalence in SCD is limited. The objective of this study was to assess self-reported fracture prevalence and its relationship to endocrinopathy in transfused Thal or SCD subjects and compare to non-transfused subjects with SCD (NonTxSCD). Eligibility was based on age> or =12 years and liver iron concentration> or =10 mg/g dry wt or serum ferritin> or =2000 ng/mL (Thal or TxSCD) or for NonTxSCD, ferritin<500 ng/mL. Data were collected by patient interview and chart review at 31 clinical centers in the U.S., Canada and the U.K. 152 subjects with Thal (52% Male; 25.6+/-0.7 years), 203 subjects with TxSCD (44% Male, 24.7+/-0.9 years: Mean+/-SE), and 65 NonTxSCD (50% Male, 22.2+/-1.3 years) were enrolled. Overall, male subjects with Thal were more likely to have sustained a fracture in their lifetime (51%) compared to TxSCD (28%) or NonTxSCD (32%) (p=0.005). There was no difference in fracture prevalence among women (Thal: 26%, TxSCD 17%, NonTxSCD: 16%). Fracture was most frequently reported in the upper extremities (53.3% of all fractures) while spine and pelvic fractures were relatively common for such a young cohort: 10.6%. Though overall fracture prevalence was not distinctly different from published healthy cohorts, fewer fractures occurred during the adolescent years. In multivariate analysis, the significant predictors of fracture prevalence were Thal diagnosis (Odds Ratio: 2.3; 1.2-4.6; 95%CI), male gender (OR: 2.6; 1.5-4.5), hypothyroidism (OR: 3.3; 1.1-9.8) and age (OR: 1.1; 1.03-1.08). These data suggest that despite similar iron burden, transfused patients with Thal are at greater risk for fracture than subjects with SCD. Male subjects with Thal and hypothyroidism are at particular risk for fracture, in contrast, transfused subjects with SCD had no greater risk of fracture compared to non-transfused SCD. Though ethnic differences in fracture risk cannot be ignored, endocrinopathy is rare in TxSCD which may also provide some protection from fracture.

UI  - 18408362
TI  - Patient-reported outcomes of deferasirox (Exjade, ICL670) versus deferoxamine in sickle cell disease patients with transfusional hemosiderosis. Substudy of a randomized open-label phase II trial.
AB  - Patients with SCD are therefore more satisfied with deferasirox, which has a lower impact on daily activities than deferoxamine. Given the high levels of satisfaction, it is likely that quality of life will be improved. These results also suggest that treatment adherence with deferasirox may be better than with deferoxamine, which should lead to improved long-term outcomes.

UI  - 18398653
TI  - Silent Cerebral Infarct Transfusion (SIT) trial imaging core: application of novel imaging information technology for rapid and central review of MRI of the brain.
AB  - The Silent Cerebral Infarct Multicenter Transfusion (SIT) Trial is a multi-institutional intervention trial in which children with silent cerebral infarcts are randomized to receive either blood transfusion therapy or observation (standard care) for 36 months. The SIT Trial is scheduled to enroll approximately 1,880 children with sickle cell disease from 29 clinical sites in the United States, Canada, UK, and France. Each child undergoes a screening magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain to detect the presence of silent cerebral infarct-like lesions, a pre-randomization (baseline) MRI and exit MRI to determine if there are new or enlarged cerebral infarcts, using a designated, prospective imaging protocol. The objective of this manuscript is to describe the innovative method used to process and adjudicate imaging studies for an international trial with a primary endpoint that includes neuroimaging. Institution investigators at each site were provided with computer hardware and software for transmission of MRI images that allow them to strip the scans of all personal information and add unique study identifiers. Three neuroradiologists at separate academic centers review MRI studies and determine the presence or absence of silent cerebral infarct-like lesions. Their findings are subsequently placed on web-based case report forms and sent to the Statistical Coordinating Center. The average time from imaging center receipt of the MRI study to the radiology committee report back to the local site is less than two working days. This novel strategy was designed to maximize efficiency and minimize cost of a complex large multicenter trial that depends heavily on neuroimaging for entry criteria and assessment for the primary outcome measures. The technology, process, and expertise used in the SIT Trial can be adapted to virtually any clinical research trial with digital imaging requirements.

UI  - 18384865
TI  - Enuresis is a common and persistent problem among children and young adults with sickle cell anemia.
AB  - Enuresis and nocturia are common in children with SCA. Among adults with SCA, enuresis and nocturia are more persistent compared with adults in the general population. Enuresis and nocturia are not associated with an increased rate of pain or ACS.

UI  - 18322255
TI  - Modulation of erythroid adhesion receptor expression by hydroxyurea in children with sickle cell disease.
AB  - Our results suggest that hydroxyurea acts during erythroid development and modulates adhesion receptor expression and function differently, possibly by acting on gene expression and the signaling cascade leading to receptor activation.

UI  - 18320518
TI  - Retinal photocoagulation for proliferative sickle cell retinopathy: a prospective clinical trial with new sea fan classification.
AB  - These data suggest that patients with grade A or C new sea fan classification should not be initially treated but observed.

UI  - 18318968
TI  - Delay between pregnancy confirmation and sickle cell and [corrected] thalassaemia screening: a population-based cohort study.
AB  - About 74% of women consulted for pregnancy before 10 weeks' gestation but fewer than 5% of women were screened before the target time of 10 weeks. Reducing the considerable delay between pregnancy confirmation in primary care and antenatal sickle cell and thalassaemia screening requires methods of organising and delivering antenatal care that facilitate earlier screening to be developed and evaluated.

UI  - 18318099
TI  - Effect of sodium salicylate iontophoresis in the management of hip pain in patients with sickle cell disease.
AB  - It was concluded that sodium salicylate iontophoresis was effective in the management of hip pain in patients with SCD. It is therefore recommended for routine use for patients with SCD on admission with severe pain.

UI  - 18237377
TI  - Towards socially inclusive research: an evaluation of telephone questionnaire administration in a multilingual population.
AB  - Studies requiring data to be collected by questionnaire may obtain higher response rates from both English and non-English speakers when a choice of telephone or postal administration (and where necessary, an interpreter)is offered compared to offering postal administration only. This approach will, however, incur additional research costs and uncertainty remains about the equivalence of responses obtained from the two methods.

UI  - 18198257
TI  - Large and medium-sized pulmonary artery obstruction does not play a role of primary importance in the etiology of sickle-cell disease-associated pulmonary hypertension.
AB  - Although small pulmonary artery obstruction cannot be excluded, large to medium-sized pulmonary artery obstruction is an unlikely primary causative factor in SCD-related PHT.

UI  - 18192510
TI  - Efficacy and safety of the Gardos channel blocker, senicapoc (ICA-17043), in patients with sickle cell anemia.
AB  - Senicapoc, a novel Gardos channel inhibitor, limits solute and water loss, thereby preserving sickle red blood cell (RBC) hydration. Because hemoglobin S polymerization is profoundly influenced by intracellular hemoglobin concentration, senicapoc could improve sickle RBC survival. In a 12-week, multicenter, phase 2, randomized, double-blind, dose-finding study, we evaluated senicapoc's safety and its effect on hemoglobin level and markers of RBC hemolysis in sickle cell anemia patients. The patients were randomized into 3 treatment arms: placebo; low-dose (6 mg/day) senicapoc; and high-dose (10 mg/day) senicapoc. For the primary efficacy end point (change in hemoglobin level from baseline), the mean response to high-dose senicapoc treatment exceeded placebo (6.8 g/L [0.68 g/dL] vs 0.1 g/L [0.01 g/dL], P < .001). Treatment with high-dose senicapoc also produced significant decreases in such secondary end points as percentage of dense RBCs (-2.41 vs -0.08, P < .001); reticulocytes (-4.12 vs -0.46, P < .001); lactate dehydrogenase (-121 U/L vs -15 U/L, P = .002); and indirect bilirubin (-1.18 mg/dL vs 0.12 mg/dL, P < .001). Finally, senicapoc was safe and well tolerated. The increased hemoglobin concentration and concomitant decrease in the total number of reticulocytes and various markers of RBC destruction following senicapoc administration suggests a possible increase in the survival of sickle RBCs. This study is registered at http://clinicaltrials.gov as NCT00040677.

UI  - 18187665
TI  - Identification of genetic polymorphisms associated with risk for pulmonary hypertension in sickle cell disease.
AB  - Up to 30% of adult patients with sickle cell disease (SCD) will develop pulmonary hypertension (pHTN), a complication associated with significant morbidity and mortality. To identify genetic factors that contribute to risk for pHTN in SCD, we performed association analysis with 297 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in 49 candidate genes in patients with sickle cell anemia (Hb SS) who had been screened for pHTN by echocardiography (n = 111). Evidence of association was primarily identified for genes in the TGFbeta superfamily, including activin A receptor, type II-like 1 (ACVRL1), bone morphogenetic protein receptor 2 (BMPR2), and bone morphogenetic protein 6 (BMP6). The association of pHTN with ACVRL1 and BMPR2 corroborates the previous association of these genes with primary pHTN. Moreover, genes in the TGFbeta pathway have been independently implicated in risk for several sickle cell complications, suggesting that this gene pathway is important in overall sickle cell pathophysiology. Genetic variation in the beta-1 adrenergic receptor (ADRB1) was also associated with pHTN in our dataset. A multiple regression model, which included age and baseline hemoglobin as covariates, retained SNPs in ACVRL1, BMP6, and ADRB1 as independently contributing to pHTN risk. These findings may offer new promise for identifying patients at risk for pHTN, developing new therapeutic targets, and reducing the occurrence of this life-threatening SCD complication.

UI  - 18043446
TI  - Immunogenicity and safety of a pneumococcal conjugate 7-valent vaccine in infants with sickle cell disease.
AB  - PCV7 administered at 2, 3, and 4 months of age in infants with SCD was well-tolerated, highly immunogenic, and primed for immune memory as indicated by the dramatic response to the PS-23 dose administered at 15-18 months in this study. However, the current recommended schedule is to boost with the PCV7 at 12-15 months of age and for these high-risk children, to enlarge the protection with a subsequent PS-23 dose at 2 years of age.

UI  - 18027048
TI  - Physiologic effects of pneumoperitoneum in adults with sickle cell disease undergoing laparoscopic cholecystectomy (a case control study).
AB  - This study proved the safety of LC in patients with SCD and cholelithiasis, and that they can tolerate the physiological effects of pneumoperitoneum as non-SCD adults.

UI  - 18024668
TI  - Limitations of clinical trials in sickle cell disease: a case study of the Multi-center Study of Hydroxyurea (MSH) trial and the Stroke Prevention (STOP) trial.
AB  - In the past two decades, two landmark randomized controlled trials (RCT) have been completed among individuals with sickle cell disease (SCD), the Multi-center Study of Hydroxyurea (MSH) trial and the Stroke Prevention (STOP) trial. The MSH trial tested the hypothesis that hydroxyurea will reduce the frequency of painful episodes for adults with hemoglobin SS who had a history of 3 or more painful episodes per year. The STOP trial tested the hypothesis that among children with hemoglobin SS and an elevated transcranial Doppler (TCD) velocity measurement, blood transfusion therapy would decrease the risk of an initial stroke. After completion, both trials have defined standard care for individuals with hemoglobin SS. The purpose of this review is to examine the limitations of the MSH and STOP trials. In the context of these trials, we will examine the effects of narrow inclusion criteria that primarily include participants with hemoglobin SS and secondary analyses that are prone to false-positive results. In addition, we describe how after publication of these two trials use of hydroxyurea and TCD assessment has drifted towards a standard practice without evidence of therapeutic efficacy among groups that were excluded from the trials. Finally, we suggest that rigorously conducted RCTs or at the minimum multicenter observation studies with strong methodology should be performed in these excluded subgroups to confirm a benefit of hydroxyurea or TCD measurement.

UI  - 17991298
TI  - Phase I study of magnesium pidolate in combination with hydroxycarbamide for children with sickle cell anaemia.
AB  - In sickle cell anaemia, red cell dehydration increases intracellular HbS concentration and promotes sickling. Higher erythrocyte magnesium reduces water loss through negative regulation of membrane transporters. Hydroxycarbamide (also known as hydroxyurea) reduces sickling partly by increasing intracellular HbF. Combining drugs with distinct mechanisms could offer additive effects. A phase I trial combining oral magnesium pidolate and hydroxycarbamide was performed to estimate the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and toxicity of magnesium. Cohorts of three children with HbSS, who were on a stable dose of hydroxycarbamide (median 28.5 mg/kg/d), received magnesium pidolate for 6 months beginning at 83 mg/kg/d. The dose was escalated by 50% for subsequent cohorts. Laboratory evaluations were performed at 0, 3, 6 and 9 months. Sixteen children (aged 4-12 years) participated. All four dose-limiting toxicities (grade III diarrhoea and abdominal pain) occurred within the first month of starting magnesium. Additionally, diarrhoea grades I (n = 1) and II (n = 3), and abdominal pain grade II (n = 3) occurred. Hydroxycarbamide dose reduction or interruption was not required. The MTD for magnesium pidolate used in combination with hydroxycarbamide was 125 mg/kg/d. KCl co-transporter activity declined after 3 months of magnesium pidolate (P = 0.02). A phase II study is needed to investigate the efficacy of this drug combination.

UI  - 17988293
TI  - Sickle cell disease: the Lebanese experience.
AB  - Sickle cell disease (SCD), the commonest single gene disorder worldwide, is an inherited disease that has different clinical and hematological manifestations in different populations. The objective of this study is to describe the characteristics of the Lebanese SCD population. This was a retrospective study that included information on 387 patients with either sickle cell anemia (SS) or sickle beta-thalassemia (ST). The mean (+/-SD) age was 17.9 years (+/-12.5), and the mean (+/-SD) follow-up was 9.3 +/- 6.9 years. Fifty percent of the patients were males and SS/ST distribution was 3 : 1. The disease was clustered in two geographic areas in North and South Lebanon. Nearly, all patients were Muslims and 56% were the offspring of consanguineous parents. The prevalence of splenomegaly beyond 6 years of age among SS patients was 28.9%. The prevalence rates of stroke, leg ulcers and priapism were 4.1%, 1.4%, and 0.8%, respectively. Comparing the SS and the ST patients, there were no statistically significant differences in the prevalence of all clinical manifestations except for splenomegaly (SS: 28.9%, ST: 54.9%, P-value < 0.001) and splenectomy (SS: 16.1%, ST: 35.7%, P-value < 0.001). In contrast to Northern American populations and similar to some Mediterranean populations, Lebanese SCD patients have a higher prevalence of persistent splenomegaly. The relatively low incidence of thrombotic complications deserves further investigation. The study's limitations include those of any other retrospective study and the fact that not all Lebanese centers caring for inherited hemoglobin disorders were included. However, the results of this first large scale national survey indicate that preventive efforts should target the Northern and Southern regions of Lebanon to decrease the number of new off springs afflicted with this disease similar to what has been successfully achieved with Thalassemia, another hemoglobinopathy that is highly prevalent in the country.

UI  - 17985350
TI  - Blood transfusion therapy is feasible in a clinical trial setting in children with sickle cell disease and silent cerebral infarcts.
AB  - Blood transfusion therapy is a feasible therapy for the prevention of progression of silent cerebral infarcts.

UI  - 17925082
TI  - Neonatal screening for sickle cell disease in Central Africa: a study of 1825 newborns with a new enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay test.
AB  - The lower cost and the high specificity of ELISA test are appropriate for developing countries, and such systematic screening for sickle cell anaemia is therefore feasible.

UI  - 17924548
TI  - Sickle cell bone disease: response to vitamin D and calcium.
AB  - Bone disease with osteoporosis and osteomalacia are common in sickle cell disease (SCD). Some patients have vitamin D deficiency and low bone mineral density (BMD). The role of vitamin D and calcium supplementation to restore bone health in SCD has not been well studied. In 14 adults with SCD, we measured 25(OH)D (25-hydroxyvitamin D) and BMD at the femoral neck, lumbar spine, and distal third of the ulna plus radius, along with markers of bone resorption (CTx; C-terminal component of pro-collagen type I) and bone formation (osteocalcin) before and after 12 months of vitamin D(2) and calcium carbonate treatment. Pretreatment, all patients were vitamin D deficient with a mean 25(OH)D level of 11.6 [corrected] +/- 4 [corrected] ng/ml, had low BMD at the lumbar spine (L-spine), 0.87 +/- 0.11 g/cm(2) (mean Z-score of -2.6 3 +/- 0.71 SD and T score of -2.31 +/- 0.75 SD), femoral neck, 0.8 +/- 0.18 g/cm(2) (mean Z-score -1.36 +/- 0.84, T-score -1.14 +/- 0.75), and the distal radius and ulna, 0.6 +/- 0.17 g/cm(2) (mean Z-score -1.18 +/- 0.79, T-score -1.01 +/- 0.74) and had elevated CTx (0.87 +/- 0.5 ng/ml) and osteocalcin levels (12.3 +/- 3.7 ng/mul). After treatment, all patients corrected their 25(OH)D level (34.6 [corrected] +/- 11 [corrected] ng/ml) (P < 0.001) with a 3.6% +/- 3.9% increase in BMD at the L-spine (P = 0.009), 4.6% +/- 8.5% increase at the femoral neck (P = 0.05) and 6.5% +/- 12.6% increase at the distal radius plus ulna (P = 0.09). CTx, osteocalcin, and PTH(i) levels were unchanged. Treatment of adult SCD with vitamin D and calcium can restore 25(OH)D levels to normal and improve BMD, but, markers of bone resorption remained unchanged. Screening for vitamin D deficiency and BMD in SCD patients seems warranted.

UI  - 17916103
TI  - Phase I study of eptifibatide in patients with sickle cell anaemia.
AB  - The alphaIIbbeta3 antagonist eptifibatide is an effective treatment for patients with acute coronary syndromes (ACS). Platelet reactivity and CD40 ligand (CD40L) may play a role in the pathophysiology of sickle cell anaemia (SCA) similar to that in ACS, suggesting that inhibition of platelet aggregation and CD40L release by eptifibatide may benefit patients with SCA. Following eptifibatide infusion, safety and pharmacodynamic data were obtained from four SCA patients in their non-crisis, steady states. Eptifibatide was well tolerated, with no adverse changes in the haematological, biochemical or coagulation parameters studied. Eptifibatide did not increase plasma levels of platelet factor 4 or beta-thromboglobulin, P-selectin exposure or platelet:leucocyte aggregate formation. Moreover, decreases in platelet aggregation and soluble CD40L (sCD40L) levels achieved in SCA patients were comparable to those observed in the treatment of ACS. Finally, indicators of inflammation, macrophage inflammatory protein-1alpha, tumour necrosis factor-alpha and myoglobin were reduced following eptifibatide infusion, while vasodilation correlatives, matrix metalloproteinases (MMP-2 and MMP-9) and leptin were increased. Based on these phase I results, eptifibatide may benefit SCA patients by inhibiting platelet aggregation, decreasing sCD40L levels and favourably altering plasma levels of inflammatory mediators.

UI  - 17901067
TI  - Pulmonary function correlates with body composition in Nigerian children and young adults with sickle cell disease.
AB  - Sickle cell disease (SCD) is associated with impaired growth and skeletal maturation. Decreased fat-free mass (FFM) and body fat (BF) have been reported in Nigerian children with SCD relative to healthy age- and gender-matched controls. Pulmonary abnormalities, including reduced forced vital capacity (FVC), forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV(1)) and total lung capacity (TLC), have also been described in children with SCD. Since undernutrition is common in sub-Saharan Africa, we were interested in knowing the relationship between pulmonary function and body composition in Nigerian children and young adults with SCD. Body composition was determined using bioelectrical impedance and pulmonary function was assessed by spirometry in Nigerian children and young adults aged 7-35 years (n = 102) as well as healthy age-and gender-matched controls (n = 104). Age-adjusted data revealed 19-26% lower FFM for male (P < 0.001) and female (P < 0.001) subjects with SCD relative to the controls. FVC, FEV(1) and PEF were also significantly reduced in male and female children and young adults with SCD compared to their control counterparts. For both male and female patients and controls, FVC, FEV(1) and PEF correlated positively with FFM (P < 0.001). PEF for the female subjects with SCD diverged progressively with increasing age relative to the controls and the rate of change was significantly lower (P < 0.001). We conclude that pulmonary function is reduced in Nigerian children and young adults with SCD compared to controls and that for both groups, pulmonary function is directly related to body composition. These findings underscore the need for early nutritional intervention for children with SCD.

UI  - 17894792
TI  - Blood transfusions in children: a multi-institutional analysis of practices and complications.
AB  - The administration of blood products to children is a common practice in academic children's hospitals. Complications associated with these transfused products are rare.

UI  - 17849474
TI  - Corticosteroids and increased risk of readmission after acute chest syndrome in children with sickle cell disease.
AB  - These results demonstrate a greatly elevated independent risk of readmission after ACS in children with asthma and after treatment with corticosteroids and a protective effect of transfusion. Although dexamethasone has documented efficacy for reducing the duration of ACS, the substantial risk of readmission for pain should limit its use.

UI  - 17785963
TI  - Chronic liver abnormalities in sickle cell disease: a clinicopathological study in 70 living patients.
AB  - In patients with sickle cell disease, chronic liver abnormalities are frequent and seem to be a multifactorial phenomenon, depending on overlapping factors such as cholelithiasis, viral damage, iron overload and also the primary disease itself.

UI  - 17721622
TI  - Reduction of painful vaso-occlusive crisis of sickle cell anaemia by tinzaparin in a double-blind randomized trial.
AB  - A randomized double-blind clinical trial was performed to test the safety and efficacy of a low-molecular-weight heparin, tinzaparin (Innohep), for the management of acute painful vasoocclusive crisis characteristic of sickle cell anemia (SCA). We studied 253 patients with acute painful crisis but with no other complications of SCA, randomized to treatment or control groups. In the treatment group, 127 patients received tinzaparin at 175 IU/kg, subcutaneous once daily, along with supportive care including morphine analgesia; in the control group, 126 patients received placebo and the same supportive care. The maximal experimental treatment period was seven days. Analysis revealed a statistically significant reduction in number of days with the severest pain score, overall duration of painful crisis, and duration of hospitalization (p < 0.05 for each comparison of tinzaparin vs. placebo). The decline in pain intensity was sharper for tinzaparin-treated patients, and complications consisted of two minor bleeding events that were reported and treated by cessation of tinzaparin. This investigation demonstrated that tinzaparin, administered at its approved treatment regimen, reduced the severity and duration of acute crisis of SCA.

UI  - 17680298
TI  - Pulmonary hypertension in children and adolescents with sickle cell disease.
AB  - The prevalence of pulmonary hypertension (PHTN) in the pediatric sickle cell disease (SCD) population is not known despite its high prevalence in adult patients. Our hypothesis was that increased pulmonary artery pressures (PAPs) would be found in SCD children and adolescents, especially those with a history of pulmonary complications: acute chest syndrome, obstructive sleep apnea, asthma, and reactive airway disease. Fifty-two SCD children, 23 of whom had underlying pulmonary disease, were screened for PHTN, which was defined as a tricuspid regurgitant jet velocity (TRV) of at least 2.5 m/s. Twenty-four (46.15%) SCD patients had increased PAP (i.e., TRV > or =2.5 m/s), and 6 (11.5%) had significant PHTN (i.e., TRV > or =3.0 m/s). Pulmonary disease was marginally associated with PHTN (odds ratio 2.80 and confidence interval 0.88 to 8.86; p = 0.0795). As in adult SCD patients with PHTN, this complication was correlated with the degree of hemolysis as manifested by significantly higher lactate dehydrogenase and bilirubin, lower hemoglobin and hematocrit levels, and a strong association with Hb-SS phenotype. However, after statistical adjustment for age and sex, increased serum LDH was not associated with the development of PHTN. Further studies are needed to clarify the prevalence and mechanisms of PHTN in pediatric and adolescent patients with SCD.

UI  - 17663687
TI  - Unrelated cord blood transplantation in children with sickle cell disease: review of four-center experience.
AB  - UCBT was performed in seven children with SCD and stroke (HLA match 4/6 n=5; 5/6 n=2). Four received myeloablative regimens (BU, CY, ATG plus FLU in one patient). One had primary graft failure, three had sustained engraftment, two with grade III-IV GVHD (one died, one developed chronic GVHD), one with stable mixed chimerism. Three patients treated with reduced-intensity regimens (FLU, BU or CY, ATG, TLI) failed to engraft; one engrafted after second UCBT (HU, TT, RXA, ALZ, TBI). Four patients (57%) developed viral infections. Engraftment, GVHD, and infection remain challenges.

UI  - 17643096
TI  - Renal medullary carcinoma: report of seven cases from Brazil.
AB  - We report seven cases of renal medullary carcinoma collected from several institutions in Brazil. In spite of a relatively high incidence of sickle cell trait in Brazil, this is a rare tumor. All patients were males between the ages of 8 and 69 years (mean 22 years). From the collected information, the most frequent presenting symptoms were gross hematuria and flank or abdominal pain. The duration of symptoms ranged from 1 week to 5 months. Most of the tumors were poorly circumscribed arising centrally in the renal medulla. Size ranged from 4 to 12 cm (mean 7 cm) and hemorrhage and necrosis were common findings. All seven cases described showed sickled red blood cells in the tissue and six patients were confirmed to have sickle cell trait. All cases disclosed the characteristic reticular pattern consisting of tumor cell aggregates forming spaces of varied size, reminiscent of yolk sac testicular tumors of reticular type. Other findings included microcystic, tubular, trabecular, solid and adenoid-cystic patterns, rhabdoid-like cells and stromal desmoplasia. A peculiar feature was suppurative necrosis typically resembling microabscesses within epithelial aggregates. The medullary carcinoma of the 69-year-old patient was associated with a conventional clear cell carcinoma. To our knowledge, this association has not been previously reported and the patient is the oldest in the literature. The survival after diagnosis or admission ranged from 4 days to 9 months. The 8-year-old African-Brazilian patient with a circumscribed mass is alive and free of recurrence 8 years after diagnosis. This case raises the question whether a periodic search for renal medullary carcinoma in young patients who have known abnormalities of the hemoglobin gene and hematuria could result in an early diagnosis and a better survival.

UI  - 17617790
TI  - Patient-controlled analgesia versus continuous infusion of morphine during vaso-occlusive crisis in sickle cell disease, a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Intravenous morphine is the treatment of choice for severe pain during vaso- occlusive crisis in sickle cell disease (SCD). However, side effects of morphine may hamper effective treatment, and high plasma levels of morphine are associated with severe complications such as acute chest syndrome. Furthermore, adequate dosing remains a problem since no objective measurement of pain severity exists and analgesia should be titrated upon the patient's reported pain. Patient-controlled analgesia (PCA) may therefore be an interesting alternative since patients can titrate the level of analgesia themselves. In this randomized controlled study, the efficacy of intravenous morphine administration with PCA was compared with continuous infusion (CI) of morphine in patients with SCD during vaso-occlusive crisis. Twenty five consecutive episodes of vaso-occlusive crisis in 19 patients with SCD were included in the study. Patients in the PCA-group had a markedly and significant lower mean and cumulative morphine consumption when compared with the patients in the CI-group (0.5 mg/hr versus 2.4 mg/hr (P < 0.001) and 33 mg versus 260 mg (P = 0.018, respectively). The mean daily pain scores were comparable (4.9 versus 5.3). The lower mean and cumulative morphine consumption in the PCA-group led to significant less nausea and constipation during treatment when compared with the CI-group (area under the curve, respectively, 11 versus 18 (P = 0.045) and 30 versus 45 (P = 0.021). Furthermore, a nonsignificant reduction in the duration of hospital admission of 3 days was observed in the PCA-group. PCA results in adequate pain relief at a much lower morphine consumption and should considered to be the first choice in morphine administration to sickle cell patients admitted with vaso-occlusive crisis.

UI  - 17584530
TI  - Automated red cell exchange procedures in patients with sickle cell disease.
AB  - In automated red cell exchange, about 60% of the patient's red blood cells are exchanged via apheresis for those of the donor. We report the outcome of 83 patients with sickle cell anemia (48 women and 35 men; age range, 17-49 years) who underwent a total of 196 apheresis procedures between December 2003 and October 2006 at our institution. We found that automated red cell exchange involving a reduced citrate infusion rate may provide benefit in the prevention or treatment of vaso-occlusive complications in patients with sickle cell disease and may be associated with protean effects on biochemical dynamics.

UI  - 17548550
TI  - A pilot randomized education rehabilitation trial is feasible in sickle cell and strokes.
AB  - A randomized trial was completed to assess the feasibility of a 2-year education rehabilitation program for students with sickle cell disease and memory deficits. Eleven students were assigned to tutoring with or without memory training for 2 years. Eighty-two percent completed the program. Evidence of improvement in memory and academic achievement existed. Educational rehabilitation is a feasible strategy, but further investigation is needed to assess the benefit in a multi center trial.

UI  - 17480009
TI  - Laparoscopic versus open abdominal surgery in children with sickle cell disease is associated with a shorter hospital stay.
AB  - For children with SCD who need a cholecystectomy or splenectomy, laparoscopy is the preferred strategy because of a shorter hospital stay with a similar complication rate compared to open surgeries.

UI  - 17459050
TI  - Matched-related donor transplantation for sickle cell disease: report from the Center for International Blood and Transplant Research.
AB  - We report outcomes after myeloablative haematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) from human leucocyte antigen (HLA)-matched sibling donors in 67 patients with sickle cell disease transplanted between 1989 and 2002. The most common indications for transplantation were stroke and recurrent vaso-occlusive crisis in 38% and 37% of patients respectively. The median age at transplantation was 10 years and 67% of patients had received >10 red blood cell transfusions before HCT. Twenty-seven percent of patients had a poor performance score at transplantation. Ninety-four percent received busulfan and cyclophosphamide-containing conditioning regimens and bone marrow was the predominant source of donor cells. Most patients achieved haematopoietic recovery and no deaths occurred during the early post-transplant period. Rates of acute and chronic graft-versus-host disease were 10% and 22% respectively. Sixty-four of 67 patients are alive with 5-year probabilities of disease-free and overall survival of 85% and 97% respectively. Nine patients had graft failure with recovery of sickle erythropoiesis, eight of who had recurrent sickle-related events. This report confirms and extends earlier reports that HCT from HLA-matched related donors offers a very high survival rate, with few transplant-related complications and the elimination of sickle-related complications in the majority of patients who undergo this therapy.

UI  - 17453330
TI  - Negative thinking as a coping strategy mediator of pain and internalizing symptoms in adolescents with sickle cell disease.
AB  - The objective of this study was to examine the role of coping strategies, specifically negative thinking, in mediating the association of pain with symptoms of anxiety and depression in adolescents with sickle cell disease. Fifty-two 12-18-year-old adolescents with sickle cell disease completed a daily pain diary and paper-and-pencil measures of pain, pain coping, depression and anxiety. Symptoms of depression and anxiety were within the non-clinical range. Preliminary analyses indicated that lower family income was associated with higher reports of pain and negative thinking. Mediation regression analyses supported negative thinking as mediating the association of: (1) pain intensity with depression, and (2) pain interference with daily activities with anxiety. Findings highlight negative thinking as a factor compromising adolescents' adaptation to sickle cell pain; however, further investigation is required to determine the mediating influence of pain coping. Associations for lower income emphasize the multiple risk factors experienced by many of these adolescents.

UI  - 17429008
TI  - Hydroxyurea therapy lowers transcranial Doppler flow velocities in children with sickle cell anemia.
AB  - Hydroxyurea has hematologic and clinical efficacy in sickle cell anemia (SCA), but its effects on transcranial Doppler (TCD) flow velocities remain undefined. Fifty-nine children initiating hydroxyurea therapy for clinical severity had pretreatment baseline TCD measurements; 37 with increased flow velocities (> or = 140 cm/s) were then enrolled in an institutional review board (IRB)-approved prospective phase 2 trial with TCD velocities measured at maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and one year later. At hydroxyurea MTD (mean +/- 1 SD = 27.9 +/- 2.7 mg/kg per day), significant decreases were observed in the right middle cerebral artery (MCA) (166 +/- 27 cm/s to 135 +/- 27 cm/s, P < .001) and left (MCA) (168 +/- 26 cm/s to 142 +/- 27 cm/s, P < .001) velocities. The magnitude of TCD velocity decline was significantly correlated with the maximal baseline TCD value. At hydroxyurea MTD, 14 of 15 children with conditional baseline TCD values improved, while 5 of 6 with abnormal TCD velocities whose families refused transfusions became less than 200 cm/s. TCD changes were sustained at follow-up. These prospective data indicate that hydroxyurea can significantly decrease elevated TCD flow velocities, often into the normal range. A multicenter trial is warranted to determine the efficacy of hydroxyurea for the management of increased TCD values, and ultimately for primary stroke prevention in children with SCA.

UI  - 17409269
TI  - Sickle cell trait and the risk of venous thromboembolism among blacks.
AB  - People with sickle cell disease have a chronically activated coagulation system and display hemostatic perturbations, but it is unknown whether they experience an increased risk of venous thromboembolism. We conducted a case-control study of venous thromboembolism that included 515 hospitalized black patients and 555 black controls obtained from medical clinics. All subjects were assayed for hemoglobin S and hemoglobin C genotypes. The prevalence of the S allele was 0.070 and 0.032 for case patients and controls, respectively (P < .001). The odds that a patient had sickle cell trait were approximately twice that of a control, indicating that the risk of venous thromboembolism is increased approximately 2-fold among blacks with sickle cell trait compared with those with the wild-type genotype (odds ratio = 1.8 with 95% confidence interval, 1.2-2.9). The odds ratio for pulmonary embolism and sickle cell trait was higher, 3.9 (2.2-6.9). The prevalence of sickle cell disease was also increased among case patients compared with controls. We conclude that sickle cell trait is a risk factor for venous thromboembolism and that the proportion of venous thromboembolism among blacks attributable to the mutation is approximately 7%.

UI  - 17389246
TI  - Emergency department management of acute pain episodes in sickle cell disease.
AB  - Patients with an acute painful episode related to sickle cell disease experienced significant delays to administration of an initial analgesic.

UI  - 17339198
TI  - Steroid treatment in children with sickle-cell disease.
AB  - Given the controversy concerning the effects of steroids in patients with sickle cell disease (SCD), we evaluated the tolerability of long-term steroid treatment in 16 children with SCD and autoimmune and/or systemic diseases. The steroid treatment was poorly tolerated.

UI  - 17299377
TI  - Fetal hemoglobin in sickle cell anemia: genetic determinants of response to hydroxyurea.
AB  - The increase in fetal hemoglobin (HbF) in response to hydroxyurea (HU) varies among patients with sickle cell anemia. Twenty-nine candidate genes within loci previously reported to be linked to HbF level (6q22.3-q23.2, 8q11-q12 and Xp22.2-p22.3), involved in metabolism of HU and related to erythroid progenitor proliferation were studied in 137 sickle cell anemia patients treated with HU. Three-hundred and twenty tagging single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) for genotyping were selected based on HapMap data. Multiple linear regression and the nonlinear regression Random Forest method were used to investigate the association between SNPs and the change in HbF level after 2 years of treatment with HU. Both methods revealed that SNPs in genes within the 6q22.3-23.2 and 8q11-q12 linkage peaks, and also the ARG2, FLT1, HAO2 and NOS1 genes were associated with the HbF response to HU. Polymorphisms in genes regulating HbF expression, HU metabolism and erythroid progenitor proliferation might modulate the patient response to HU.

UI  - 17294892
TI  - [Hemoglobinopathies in Tunisia. An updated review of the epidemiologic and molecular data].
AB  - The hemoglobinopathies affect the blood red cells and are the most common monogenic diseases worldwide. The high frequency and clinical severity of the hemoglobinopathies, make them a major public health problem. We report here an updated review on epidemiologic and molecular data of the hemoglobinopathies in Tunisia. From 1980 to 2005, a screening of hemoglobinopathies was performed on a total of 44299 individuals according to 2 kinds of work: a systematic screening on several populations (24240) from different regions of the country and a cohort of individuals referred to our laboratory for hemoglobinopathies suspicion (20059). Blood was collected in EDTA tubes from the studied individuals to determine the hematological parameters, the hemoglobin electrophoretic data and the iron status. DNA analysis was performed by the usual PCR based-procedures for the molecular defects identification. Systematic surveys allowed us to show an average prevalence of hemoglobinopathy carriers of 4.48% reaching 12.50% in some focus regions. The average frequency of B-thal trait is of 2.21% and that of sickle cell trait is of 1.89%. Hemoglobin screening on newborns has shown a frequency of alpha-thal trait of 5.48%. Oriented studies from our hospital experience allowed us to list more than 2394 major forms. Molecular analysis on beta-thalassemia patients allowed to identify 21 different alleles. The two most frequent mutations (cd39 C-->T and IVS1-110 G-->A) accounted for 70% of the total encountered beta-thal mutations. Among the other mutations, three were described for the first time in the world on Tunisian families. The sickle cell disease is associated with the Benin haplotype in 95% of the studied cases. Concerning alpha-thal mutation, the - alpha37 deletion was the most common. We also note the identification of several rare Hemoglobin variants as well as diverse associated forms of anomalies. Knowledge of epidemiological and molecular data of hemoglobinopathies is fundamental to understand the mechanisms of disease expression and the genotype / phenotype correlations. Furthermore, the distribution of the hemoglobinopathies in the regions allows to orientate efficiently the planning tasks regarding control and prevention of these hereditary diseases.

UI  - 17243135
TI  - Intra-individual variation in blood flow velocities in cerebral arteries of children with sickle cell disease.
AB  - While stroke risk is well demonstrated to increase with increasingly abnormal TCD velocity, given the relatively large intra-subject variability, one TCD examination is generally not sufficient to characterize stroke risk in this patient population.

UI  - 17233848
TI  - A randomised comparison of deferasirox versus deferoxamine for the treatment of transfusional iron overload in sickle cell disease.
AB  - Deferasirox is a once-daily, oral iron chelator developed for treating transfusional iron overload. Preclinical studies indicated that the kidney was a potential target organ of toxicity. As patients with sickle cell disease often have abnormal baseline renal function, the primary objective of this randomised, open-label, phase II trial was to evaluate the safety and tolerability of deferasirox in comparison with deferoxamine in this population. Assessment of efficacy, as measured by change in liver iron concentration (LIC) using biosusceptometry, was a secondary objective. A total of 195 adult and paediatric patients received deferasirox (n = 132) or deferoxamine (n = 63). Adverse events most commonly associated with deferasirox were mild, including transient nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, abdominal pain and skin rash. Abnormal laboratory studies with deferasirox were occasionally associated with mild non-progressive increases in serum creatinine and reversible elevations in liver function tests. Discontinuation rates from deferasirox (11.4%) and deferoxamine (11.1%) were similar. Over 1 year, similar dose-dependent LIC reductions were observed with deferasirox and deferoxamine. Once-daily oral deferasirox has acceptable tolerability and appears to have similar efficacy to deferoxamine in reducing iron burden in transfused patients with sickle cell disease.

UI  - 17223910
TI  - Effect of myeloablative bone marrow transplantation on growth in children with sickle cell anaemia: results of the multicenter study of haematopoietic cell transplantation for sickle cell anaemia.
AB  - Although haematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) is curative for sickle cell anaemia (SCA), concerns about its short- and long-term toxicities limit its application. A potential toxicity is an adverse effect on growth. To identify an HCT growth effect, serial height and weight measurements from 53 children and adolescents with SCA after receiving a transplant were compared to historical controls. Hierarchical Linear Models for longitudinal data were used for analysis. In general growth was not impaired by HCT for SCA in young children; however, diminished growth may occur if HCT is carried out near or during the adolescent growth spurt.

UI  - 17186507
TI  - Temporal relationship of asthma to acute chest syndrome in sickle cell disease.
AB  - Acute chest syndrome (ACS) is an important cause of mortality and morbidity in children with sickle cell disease (SCD). An association between asthma and ACS has been reported. Our aims were to determine whether asthma was more common in SCD children than controls and the relationship of the timing of the SCD children's first ACS episode to a diagnosis of asthma. One hundred and sixty-five SCD children median age 8.2 (range 0.3-17.3) years and 151 similar ethnic origin and aged controls were prospectively recruited into the study and a detailed history was taken from all of the children to determine if they were taking anti-asthma medication. The medical records of the SCD children were examined to assess whether they had an ACS episode, the age this episode occurred and when any diagnosis of asthma had been made. A similar proportion of the SCD children and controls were taking anti-asthma medication (7% and 9%). Thirty-three SCD children had at least one ACS episode. More of the children who had an ACS compared to those who had not were taking anti-asthma medication (P = 0.02). The ACS children had been diagnosed as asthmatic at a median of 3.5 (range 0.5-7) years prior to their first ACS episode. In conclusion, these results suggest asthma exacerbations may predispose to ACS episodes.

UI  - 17156397
TI  - Transfusion prevents acute chest syndrome predicted by elevated secretory phospholipase A2.
AB  - Acute pulmonary injury is known as acute chest syndrome (ACS) in patients with sickle cell disease (SCD). Secretory phospholipase A2 (sPLA2) was found to predict those at risk for ACS and a trial was designed to determine if red blood cell transfusion can be used to prevent ACS. Patients with an elevated sPLA2 were randomised to either receive a single transfusion or standard care. Five of the eight patients (63%) randomised to standard care developed ACS versus none of the seven patients randomised to the transfusion arm (P = 0.026, Odds ratio = 23.6, 95% confidence interval 1, 557). This study suggests that transfusion may prevent ACS.

UI  - 17145606
TI  - Pharmacokinetics of hydroxyurea 1,000 mg coated breakable tablets and 500 mg capsules in pediatric and adult patients with sickle cell disease.
AB  - Little is known about the pharmacokinetics of hydroxyurea in patients with sickle cell disease (SCD). Our aims were to evaluate bioequivalence between standard hydroxyurea capsules and a new formulation of 1,000 mg coated breakable tablets in adults and to compare pharmacokinetic parameters in adults and children with SCD. Fifteen adults received hydroxyurea capsules and tablets in a randomized cross-over study. Eleven children received hydroxyurea tablets. The results showed bioequivalence between capsules and tablets in adults. Pharmacokinetic parameters were not significantly different between adults and children. Considerable inter-individual variability was noted.

UI  - 17142406
TI  - Physical therapy alone compared with core decompression and physical therapy for femoral head osteonecrosis in sickle cell disease. Results of a multicenter study at a mean of three years after treatment.
AB  - In this randomized prospective study, physical therapy alone appeared to be as effective as hip core decompression followed by physical therapy in improving hip function and postponing the need for additional surgical intervention at a mean of three years after treatment.

UI  - 17095350
TI  - Exchange blood transfusion compared with simple transfusion for first overt stroke is associated with a lower risk of subsequent stroke: a retrospective cohort study of 137 children with sickle cell anemia.
AB  - A retrospective cohort study of children with sickle cell anemia (SCA) and strokes was used to test the hypothesis that exchange transfusion at the time of stroke presentation more effectively prevents second strokes than does simple transfusion. Children receiving simple transfusion had a 5-fold greater relative risk (95% confidence interval = 1.3 to 18.6) of second stroke than those receiving exchange transfusion.

UI  - 17094096
TI  - Morbidity and mortality in chronically transfused subjects with thalassemia and sickle cell disease: A report from the multi-center study of iron overload.
AB  - A natural history study was conducted in 142 Thalassemic (Thal), 199 transfused Sickle Cell Disease (Tx-SCD, n = 199), and 64 non-Tx-SCD subjects to describe the frequency of iron-related morbidity and mortality. Subjects recruited from 31 centers in the US, Canada or the UK were similar with respect to age (overall: 25 +/- 11 years, mean +/- SD) and gender (52% female). We found that Tx-SCD subjects were hospitalized more frequently compared with Thal or non-Tx-SCD (P < 0.001). Among those hospitalized, Tx-SCD adult subjects were more likely to be unemployed compared with Thal (RR = 1.6, 95% CI 1.0-2.5) or non-Tx-SCD (RR = 3.1, 95% CI 1.3-7.3). There was a positive relationship between the severity of iron overload, assessed by serum ferritin, and the frequency of hospitalizations (r= 0.20; P = 0.009). Twenty-three deaths were reported (6 Thal, 17 Tx-SCD) in 23.5 +/- 10 months of follow-up. Within the Tx-SCD group, those who died began transfusion (25.3 vs. 12.4 years, P < 0.001) and chelation therapy later (26.8 vs. 14.2 years, P = 0.01) compared with those who survived. The unadjusted death rate in Thal was lower (2.2/100 person years) compared with that in Tx-SCD (7.0/100 person years; RR = 0.38: 95% CI 0.12-0.99). However, no difference was observed when age at death was considered. Despite improvements in therapy, death rate in this contemporary sample of transfused adult subjects with Thal or SCD is 3 times greater than the general US population. Long term follow-up of this unique cohort of subjects will be helpful in further defining the relationship of chronic, heavy iron overload to morbidity and mortality.

UI  - 17079562
TI  - Primary hemorrhagic stroke in children with sickle cell disease is associated with recent transfusion and use of corticosteroids.
AB  - In this group of children with sickle cell disease, hemorrhagic stroke was associated with a history of hypertension or antecedent events including transfusion or treatment with corticosteroids. Improved understanding of risk and prognostic factors, especially those that are modifiable, may help prevent this devastating complication in children with sickle cell disease.

UI  - 17064199
TI  - Dose-escalation study of ICA-17043 in patients with sickle cell disease.
AB  - Total systemic exposure of ICA-17043 after a single oral dose, as measured by AUC(0-infinity), increased nearly proportionally with the dose. The rate of absorption, however, appeared to be delayed at doses greater than 100 mg. With the long half-life of ICA-17043 demonstrated in this study, once-daily dosing is probably adequate to maintain steady-state plasma concentrations. In addition, single doses of ICA-17043 were well tolerated.

UI  - 17054676
TI  - Increased prevalence of iron-overload associated endocrinopathy in thalassaemia versus sickle-cell disease.
AB  - Iron-overload associated endocrinopathy is the most frequently reported complication of chronic transfusion therapy in patients with thalassaemia (Thal). This study compared iron-overloaded subjects with Thal (n = 142; 54%M; age 25.8 +/- 8.1 years) and transfused sickle-cell disease (Tx-SCD; n = 199; 43%M, 24.9 +/- 13.2 years) to non-transfused SCD subjects (non-Tx-SCD; n = 64, 50%M, 25.3 +/- 11.3 years), to explore whether the underlying haemoglobinopathy influences the development of endocrinopathy. Subjects were recruited from 31 centres in the USA, Canada and the UK. Subjects with Thal had more evidence of diabetes (13% vs. 2%, P < 0.001), hypogonadism (40% vs. 4%, P < 0.001), hypothyroidism (10% vs. 2%, P = <0.001) and growth failure (33% vs. 7%, P < 0.001), versus Tx-SCD. Fifty-six per cent of Thal had more than one endocrinopathy compared with only 13% of Tx-SCD (P < 0.001). In contrast, Tx-SCD was not different from non-Tx-SCD. Multivariate analysis indicated that endocrinopathy was more likely in Thal than SCD [Odds Ratio (OR) = 9.4, P < 0.001], with duration of chronic transfusion a significant predictor (OR = 1.4 per 10 years of transfusion, P = 0.04). Despite iron overload, endocrinopathy was not increased in Tx-SCD versus non-Tx-SCD, suggesting that the underlying disease may modulate iron-related endocrine injury. However, because transfusion duration remained a significant predictor of endocrinopathy, these data should be confirmed in SCD subjects that have been chronically transfused for longer periods of time.

UI  - 16986131
TI  - Physical fitness indices and anthropometrics profiles in schoolchildren with sickle cell trait/disease.
AB  - The current studies aimed at determining physical fitness indices and anthropometrics profiles of school children with sickle cell trait (SCT) and sickle cell disease (SCD). Male school children (150) comprising 3 Groups participated in the studies. Group 1 has 50 normal healthy controls, while Groups 2 and 3 each has 50 children who were suffering from SCT and SCD, respectively. Anthropometrics measurement and parameters of physical fitness were assessed in all subjects. All children were also subjected to a 5-min running exercise test on a flat motorized treadmill at speed corresponding to 5 km/hr. Throughout the test, heart rate was monitored and recorded during exercise and for 10-min during recovery. Blood lactate was measured before and 5 min following the completion of test. The mean values of lean body mass and height were lower in the SCD children (P < 0.05) compared with the healthy subjects and SCT individuals. Children with SCD exhibited a higher mean value (P < 0.05) for percent body fat and fat mass than the normal healthy subjects and SCT individuals. Although all groups tolerated well the treadmill exercise protocol, the SCD group exhibited higher (P < 0.05) mean values of heart rate during exercise than those observed in the SCT and normal control children. In addition, SCD children showed higher serum lactate values before and after treadmill exercise compared to the other groups. Children with SCD exhibit high level of adiposity; low level of fitness and their exercise performance appears to be physiologically more stressful as indicated by heart rate and blood lactate concentration responses.

UI  - 16942629
TI  - Hydroxyurea and sickle cell anemia: effect on quality of life.
AB  - Treatment of SS with HU improves some aspects of QOL in adult patients who already suffer from moderate-to-severe SS.

UI  - 16941613
TI  - Clinical response of patients with sickle cell anemia to cromolyn sodium nasal spray.
AB  - Sickle cell anemia is the most common heritable hematological disease affecting humans. Although hydroxyurea is the most commonly used antisickling agent, several previous studies suggest that cromolyn sodium also prevents sickling when administered acutely. However, no previous studies have evaluated the safety or efficacy of prolonged administration of cromolyn to patients with sickle cell anemia. The purpose of this study, therefore, was to test the hypothesis that prolonged administration of cromolyn alone or in combination with hydroxyurea would decrease the incidence of pain crises and/or alter the chronic pain seen in patients with this disease. In this crossover, single-blind, in vivo and in vitro study, 17 patients with sickle cell disease were studied. Each patient had to fill out a standard pain chart. Every 3 months the patients' medications changed in the following manner: The first 3 months the patients used cromolyn sodium nasal spray; the second 3 months they received placebo nasal spray; the third 3 months they received cromolyn sodium nasal spray and hydroxyurea capsule; and the last 3 months they received hydroxyurea capsule and placebo nasal spray. The least pain was felt with the mixture of hydroxyurea capsule and cromolyn sodium nasal inhaler. Furthermore, with the other combinations of medications, there were no significant statistical changes in the number of sickled red blood cells. Every combination used in this survey had positive effects on decreasing the pain. cromolyn sodium nasal spray is significantly efficient in decreasing sickle cell crisis as well as pain intensity in patients with sickle cell anemia.

UI  - 16939628
TI  - Effects of rapamycin on accumulation of alpha-, beta- and gamma-globin mRNAs in erythroid precursor cells from beta-thalassaemia patients.
AB  - We studied the effects of rapamycin on cultures of erythroid progenitors derived from the peripheral blood of 10 beta-thalassaemia patients differing widely with respect to their potential to produce foetal haemoglobin (HbF). For this, we employed the two-phase liquid culture procedure for growing erythroid progenitors, high performance liquid chromatography for analysis of HbF production and reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction for quantification of the accumulation of globin mRNAs. The results demonstrated that rapamycin induced an increase of HbF in cultures from all the beta-thalassaemia patients studied and an increase of their overall Hb content/cell. The inducing effect of rapamycin was restricted to gamma-globin mRNA accumulation, being only minor for beta-globin and none for alpha-globin mRNAs. The ability of rapamycin to preferentially increase gamma-globin mRNA content and production of HbF in erythroid precursor cells from beta-thalassaemia patients is of great importance as this agent (also known as sirolimus or rapamune) is already in clinical use as an anti-rejection agent following kidney transplantation. These data suggest that rapamycin warrants further evaluation as a potential therapeutic drug in beta-thalassaemia and sickle cell anaemia.

UI  - 16924648
TI  - Hospitalization rates and costs of care of patients with sickle-cell anemia in the state of Maryland in the era of hydroxyurea.
AB  - The multicenter study of hydroxyurea (MSH) in sickle-cell anemia (SCA) demonstrated that patients treated with hydroxyurea (HU) had a 44% decrease in hospitalizations when compared with those taking placebo. A subsequent study looking at the cost-effectiveness of HU showed that decreased hospitalizations for painful crisis accounted for the majority of cost savings in those taking HU. The purpose of this study was to examine whether the expected decrease in hospital utilization occurred after the approval of HU in Maryland. We used data collected by the Maryland Health Services Cost Review Commission to obtain SCA discharge data for Maryland from FY1995 through FY2003. We also reviewed the inpatient and outpatient charts of all adults with SCA admitted to a large university hospital during 2003. Hospitalization rates for adults with SCA in Maryland have increased significantly since approval of HU. While the total costs of inpatient care in Maryland are estimated to have increased by 31% above inflation from 1995 to 2003, the costs of inpatient care for adult SCA patients has increased by almost 60% above inflation. By comparison, there has been no significant increase in the pediatric hospitalization rate. We found that 70% of patients in one hospital who were appropriate candidates for HU were not taking the medication. Hospital utilization among adults with SCA has increased significantly. There are likely many factors that have played a role in this increase. One factor that appears to be involved is the underutilization of HU.

UI  - 16924006
TI  - Transcranial Doppler ultrasonography in adults with sickle cell disease.
AB  - Transcranial Doppler velocities in adults with sickle cell disease (SCD) are lower than those in children with SCD. Velocity criteria used in children cannot be used to stratify risk of stroke in adults.

UI  - 16909052
TI  - Lung function and airway hyperresponsiveness in adult patients with sickle cell disease.
AB  - These features suggest that there is a high prevalence of airway hyperresponsiveness in adult patients with sickle cell disease without a history of reactive airway disease.

UI  - 16899945
TI  - Effect of hydroxyurea on the deformability of the red blood cell membrane in patients with sickle cell anemia.
AB  - Sickle cell disease is characterized by vaso-occlusive episodes, mainly in the small vessels, resulting in tissue ischemia, multi-organ failure, and, occasionally, death. Hydroxyurea (HU) is an agent with important and effective role in the treatment of patients suffering from this disease. The purpose of this study was to estimate the effect of HU on the deformability of the red blood cell's membrane (RBCM) in an effort to possibly improve the rheological properties of the RBCs of patients with sickle cell anemia (SCA), as well as to investigate the mechanical and rheological properties of these cells using micropipette and filtration techniques. The rigidity index, IR, which is a measure of cell rigidity and the elastic shear modulus, mu, which is a measure of cell's membrane deformability (CMd), of the RBCs from normal subjects, used as normal controls, were found significantly lower as compared to those of patients with SCA, regardless the treatment with HU. Patients under treatment with HU exhibited values better than those of untreated patients, in both, IR as well as mu, although still worse than the values of normal controls.

UI  - 16861341
TI  - Stroke Prevention Trial in Sickle Cell Anemia (STOP): extended follow-up and final results.
AB  - The Stroke Prevention Trial in Sickle Cell Anemia (STOP) was a randomized trial to evaluate whether chronic transfusion could prevent initial stroke in children with sickle-cell anemia at high risk as determined by transcranial Doppler (TCD). The trial demonstrated a large benefit of transfusion and was halted early. After termination of the trial, patients participated in a post-trial follow-up study. More patients in the transfusion group (70%) elected transfusion for primary stroke prevention compared with those on standard care (45%). Six patients with persistently abnormal TCD results developed stroke. A minority with initially abnormal TCD results remained stroke-free without transfusion. Except for lower baseline and follow-up TCD velocities compared with those with stroke, no predictive features of this apparent lower-risk subgroup could be determined. TCD results at last testing in 108 patients that did not have stroke were: normal (44.4%), conditional (26.9%), abnormal (22.2%), and inadequate (6.5%). Patients on transfusion were more likely to have normal TCD results. Transfusion resulted in iron overload and alloimmunization, but no infection. The study provides new information on acceptance rates and long-term effects of transfusion. Persistent TCD elevation signals ongoing stroke risk. Reduction in TCD results over time without transfusion is observed in some patients and requires further study.

UI  - 16860119
TI  - Impact of acute chest syndrome on lung function of children with sickle cell disease.
AB  - Children with SCD who experienced an ACS hospitalization episode had significant differences in lung function compared with those who did not experience ACS episodes. Our results are compatible with the hypothesis that ACS episodes predispose children to increased airway obstruction.

UI  - 16848777
TI  - Elevated blood flow velocity in the anterior cerebral artery and stroke risk in sickle cell disease: extended analysis from the STOP trial.
AB  - Elevated velocity in the internal carotid artery (ICA) or middle cerebral artery (MCA), detected by transcranial Doppler (TCD) ultrasonography, predicts an increased risk of stroke in children with sickle cell disease (SCD). Although strokes also occur in an anterior cerebral artery (ACA) distribution, the significance of elevated velocity in this vessel has not been determined previously. We assessed the effect of elevated ACA velocity on stroke risk using the results of the first adequate TCD study performed on 1975 children as part of The Stroke Prevention Trial in Sickle Cell Anemia (STOP). Elevated ACA velocity (> or =170 cm/s) was associated with an increased risk of stroke (P = 0.0013) after adjusting for the ICA/MCA classification. Among subjects with normal ICA/MCA velocity, the risk of stroke was more than 10-fold greater in those with elevated compared with normal ACA velocity (2.13 and 0.20 per 100 patient-years, respectively, P < 0.001); risk more than doubled with elevated compared with normal ACA velocity in those already at high risk due to abnormal ICA/MCA findings (7.56 vs. 3.22 per 100 patient-years, P = 0.042). Few of the strokes in those with elevated ACA velocity occurred in an ACA distribution, suggesting changes in blood flow velocity in anterior vessels may be associated with diffuse arterial disease or, alternatively, manifest collateral flow from compromised middle cerebral vessels.

UI  - 16798640
TI  - Secretory phospholipase A2 levels in patients with sickle cell disease and acute chest syndrome.
AB  - In a multicenter study (eight centers), we determined secretory phospholipase A(2) (sPLA(2)) levels in patients with sickle cell disease and acute chest syndrome (ACS). The diagnosis of ACS was made according to established criteria. The sPLA2 levels were determined in blood samples collected at baseline (time of diagnosis) and serially thereafter up to day 22-35 follow-up visits. Thirty-four of 43 (80%) patients with ACS had enzyme levels > or =1.00 AU at baseline. The enzyme levels decreased significantly on Days 2 through Days 25-35 after baseline. Nine of 43 (20%) patients had baseline sPLA2 values of <1.00 AU with six of them never exceeding 1.00 AU at any point in time during follow-up. The data indicate that the reliability of sPLA(2( for predicting the development of ACS is not perfect (100%) as was previously reported but occurs in about 80% of the patients.

UI  - 16755558
TI  - ADAMTS13 activity in sickle cell disease.
AB  - Sickle red blood cell (SRBC)-endothelial adhesion plays a central role in sickle cell disease (SCD)-related vaso-occlusion. As unusually large von Willebrand factor (ULVWF) multimers mediate SRBC-endothelial adhesion, we investigated the activity of ADAMTS13, the metalloprotease responsible for cleaving ULVWF multimers, in SCD. ADAMTS13 activity was determined using a quantitative immunoblotting assay. VWF:Ag and VWF:RCo were determined using commercial assays. The high-molecular-weight VWF multimer percentage was determined by employing gel electrophoresis. ADAMTS13 activity was similar among asymptomatic patients (n = 8), patients at presentation with a painful crisis (n = 23), and healthy controls. ADAMTS13/VWF:Ag ratios were lower in patients compared to healthy HbAA controls, with the lowest values at presentation with a painful crisis (P = 0.02). Division of samples in those with VWF:RCo/VWF:Ag ratios < 0.70 and those with ratios >or= 0.70 revealed significantly more samples with ratios >or= 0.70 (P = 0.01) collected during painful crises. ULVWF multimers were detected in 6 patient samples and in 1 control sample. ADAMTS13/VWF:Ag ratios were inversely related to the duration of symptoms at presentation with an acute vaso-occlusive event (r(s)-0.67, P = 0.002). Although SCD is characterized by elevated VWF:Ag levels, no severe ADAMTS13 deficiency was detected in our patients.

UI  - 16720552
TI  - Acute painful crises of sickle cell disease in Egyptian children: predictors of severity for a preventive strategy.
AB  - The objective of this study was to predict which infants with sickle cell disease (SCD) are prone to develop severe painful crises. In a mixed hospital - and community-based population (76 cases), demographic data, SCD diagnostic parameters, and basal blood counts were correlated with 2 indices of SCD severity: pain rate (average number of days of painful episodes per year of follow-up) and serious life-threatening complications, such as hyperhemolytic crises. Data were analyzed blind to these indices. The Student t test, analysis of variance, and Pearson correlation were used to determine association with pain rate. Discriminant analysis was used for the prediction of SCD severity. Pain rate was significantly high in hemoglobin SS patients, especially in those with an early onset of dactylitis. There were statistically significant negative correlations of pain rate with basal hemoglobin level, hematocrit, percent hemoglobin F, and arterial oxygen saturation (P <.01 for all correlations). The top 3 predictors of SCD severity were (in descending order) genotype, basal hemoglobin level, and early dactylitis. Severe forms of SCD could be predicted in early infancy with 100% accuracy by using the basal diagnostic parameters for the disease. These infants should be closely monitored with special attention to ventilation status, even before the development of dactylitis.

UI  - 16686906
TI  - Migraine-mimicking headache and sickle cell disease: a transcranial Doppler study.
AB  - Headache occurs in sickle cell disease (SCD), but its characteristics and frequency have not previously been studied. Our aim was to study patterns of headache in adults with SCD and to correlate its presence with blood flow velocities measured by transcranial Doppler (TCD) and with brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) abnormalities. We studied 56 adults with SCD. Twenty-eight patients (50%) had severe and frequent headaches. In 20 patients (35.7%) the headache met the International Headache Society criteria for migraine without aura. Patients with frequent and severe headache presented TCD velocities significantly higher than those without headache, or with milder headache. No correlation was found between headache and abnormalities in brain MRI. A migraine-mimicking headache occurs in SCD but we should not understand it as a primary headache because the blood flow abnormalities secondary to SCD detected by TCD seem to play an important role in these patients.

UI  - 16627796
TI  - Regular transfusion lowers plasma free hemoglobin in children with sickle-cell disease at risk for stroke.
AB  - Regular transfusion which lowers stroke risk is associated with a significant reduction in PFH. A role for PFH in promoting stroke in SCD should be investigated.

UI  - 16622841
TI  - Caregiving time in sickle cell disease: psychological effects in maternal caregivers.
AB  - The perceived care burden of caregivers of children with SCD may be related to the unpredictable nature of the crisis care they provide. Additional attention is warranted to developing adequate resources for caregivers of children with SCD to mitigate the stress of unexpected crises.

UI  - 16595318
TI  - Ethnicity questions and antenatal screening for sickle cell/thalassaemia [EQUANS] in England: a randomised controlled trial of two questionnaires.
AB  - A category-based ethnicity screening question was more effective than a binary plus open-ended question. Using the more effective question, 5.74% (CI 2.34-11.46%) of significant haemoglobinopathies will be missed in a selective screening programme, and 4.33% (CI 2.63-6.68%) of replies to an ethnicity screening question will be unreliable when compared to information given upon re-interview. In specific carefully circumscribed situations, namely, in antenatal screening for sickle cell and thalassaemia, it is possible to measure the degree of association between social constructs of ethnicity and health status in a manner that may help in effecting policy decisions.

UI  - 16563397
TI  - Sickle cell disease and pregnancy in Bahrain.
AB  - Mortality, morbidity, and perinatal loss are still considerable among women with SCD in Bahrain. To reduce mortality and morbidity, there is a need for a multidisciplinary team able to deal with pregnancy complications due to SCD.

UI  - 16551451
TI  - Radiographic predictors of neurocognitive functioning in pediatric Sickle Cell disease.
AB  - We compared magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), magnetic resonance angiography, and transcranial Doppler ultrasonography as predictors of specific neurocognitive functions in children with sickle cell disease. Participants were 27 children with sickle cell anemia (hemoglobin SS) who were participants in the Stroke Prevention Trial in Sickle Cell Anemia (STOP) and had no documented history of stroke. Children's MRIs were classified as normal or silent infarct, and their magnetic resonance angiograms were classified as normal or abnormal. The highest time-averaged mean flow velocity on transcranial Doppler ultrasonographic examination of the major cerebral arteries was analyzed. Age and hematocrit also were analyzed as predictor variables. The battery of neurocognitive tests included measures of intellectual functioning, academic achievement, attention, memory, visual-motor integration, and executive functions. MRI, magnetic resonance angiography, transcranial Doppler ultrasonography, age, and hematocrit were analyzed as predictors of participants' performance on the various measures of neurocognitive functioning. Age and hematocrit were robust predictors of a number of global and specific neurocognitive functions. When age and hematocrit were controlled, transcranial Doppler ultrasonography was a significantly unique predictor of verbal memory. We found an association between low hemoglobin and neurocognitive impairment. We also found that abnormalities on transcranial Doppler ultrasonography can herald subtle neurocognitive deficits. (J Child Neurol 2006;21:37-44).

UI  - 16550531
TI  - Hydroxyurea treatment in children with sickle cell anemia in Central America and the Caribbean countries.
AB  - 

UI  - 16521640
TI  - Left ventricular systolic and diastolic functions in patients with sickle cell anemia.
AB  - Echocardiography is a useful non-invasive technique to study the changes in cardiac structure and function. In spite of left ventricular volume load and dilation in sickle cell anemic patients, left ventricular contraction was good and systolic function was normal, and there was no correlation between the echocardiographic findings and hemoglobin level.

UI  - 16514333
TI  - Analgesic addiction and pseudoaddiction in painful chronic illness.
AB  - These tentative findings were broadly consistent with what is known about analgesic addiction and pseudoaddiction in other painful conditions. They also suggested that current recommendations about addiction in pain patients could understate the potential importance of physiological dependence. The findings could inform staff training programs to improve pain management and reduce the incidence of pseudoaddiction. The classification of pain-related and non-pain-related symptoms could be used in further research on the development of analgesic addiction and the factors that influence staff attributions about addiction in patients with pain.

UI  - 16506056
TI  - Effects of short supramaximal exercise on hemorheology in sickle cell trait carriers.
AB  - This study compared the hemorheological profile at rest and in response to a short supramaximal exercise test between sickle cell trait (SCT) carriers and a control group. Eight SCT carriers and eight control subjects performed a ramp exercise test on a cycle ergometer conducted to maximal oxygen uptake (VO2max). One week later, they performed a supramaximal exercise test consisting of pedaling for 1 min at 110% VO2max. Blood viscosity (eta(b)), plasma viscosity (eta(p)), hematocrit (Hct) and red blood cell (RBC) rigidity were assessed at rest, at the end of exercise and at the 15th, 30th and 60th min of recovery. Exercise increased eta(b), eta(p) and Hct above resting values in both groups and these parameters remained higher until the 15th or 30th min of recovery as compared to resting values. RBC rigidity was unchanged from baseline values in both groups during exercise and recovery. No difference was observed between the two groups for eta(p) and Hct but eta(b) and RBC rigidity were higher in the SCT carriers at every time point compared with the control group. The higher RBC rigidity and eta(b) found in SCT carriers at rest and in response to a brief supramaximal exercise might constitute a risk factor for microcirculatory complications. Indeed, a short supramaximal exercise test may not be completely inoffensive for SCT carriers.

UI  - 16484568
TI  - Aged garlic extract is a potential therapy for sickle-cell anemia.
AB  - Sickle-cell anemia is one of the most prevalent hereditary disorders with prominent morbidity and mortality. Oxidative phenomena play a significant role in the disorder's pathophysiology. A forumlation of garlic (Allium sativum), AGE, has been reported to exert an antioxidant effect in vitro. We evaluated the antioxidant effect of AGE on sickle red blood cells (RBCs). Five patients (two men and three women, mean age 40+/-15 years, range 24-58 years) with sickle-cell anemia participated in the study. AGE was administered at a dose of 5 mL daily. Whole blood samples were obtained at baseline and at 4 wk, primarily for Heinz body analysis. In all patients, the number of Heinz bodies decreased over the 4-wk period (58.9+/-20.0% at baseline to 29.8+/-15.3% at follow-up; P=0.03). These data suggest that AGE has a significant antioxidant activity on sickle RBCs. AGE may be further evaluated as a potential therapeutic agent to ameliorate complications of sickle-cell anemia.

UI  - 16461238
TI  - Hepatitis C virus seroprevalence in multi-transfused patients in Colombia.
AB  - The data show a 3-fold reduction in the infection risk between 1993 and 1995, when the serological screening for HCV in blood donors was being introduced. A reduction greater than 90% was achieved by 1995 when the screening coverage reached 99%.

UI  - 16434381
TI  - Long-term hydroxyurea treatment in children with sickle cell disease: tolerance and clinical outcomes.
AB  - Two hundred twenty-five SCD children have been enrolled in a study assessing the tolerability of hydroxyurea treatment. Mean age at inclusion was 9.2+/-4.4 years, median duration of treatment was 3.8 years. Ten and 75 patients have been treated respectively for more than 10 and 5 years. No severe side effect was related to hydroxyurea treatment, which was discontinued in 81 children mainly for treatment failure (30 cases) or non-compliance (17 cases). Treatment was also withdrawn in 5 of 6 children who had developed hypersplenism, in 3 because of a pathological transcranial Doppler, and in 2 after a stroke.

UI  - 16433941
TI  - Decreased corpus callosum size in sickle cell disease: relationship with cerebral infarcts and cognitive functioning.
AB  - We assessed midsagittal corpus callosum size in sickle cell disease (SCD) and its relationship to lesion volume, lesion location, and cognitive functioning. Twenty-eight children with SCD and 16 demographic controls completed magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and neuropsychological testing. Corpus callosum (CC) size was smaller for children with silent infarcts (n = 8) or overt stroke (n = 8) than for those without visible infarcts (n = 12) or control participants. Lesion volume was a robust predictor of IQ and other cognitive scores; total CC size did not typically add explanatory power for these measures. The size of the rostral body of the CC, however, independently predicted measures of distractibility, speeded production, and working memory. Posterior CC size was also decreased among many of the children with SCD, even in the absence of visible infarcts in this region. Brain morphology appears to provide additional information about SCD-related effects on the brain above and beyond visible infarcts.

UI  - 16424656
TI  - Diastolic dysfunction and pulmonary hypertension in sickle cell anemia: is there a role for L-carnitine treatment?
AB  - Clinical manifestations of cardiovascular abnormalities in patients with sickle cell (SC) anemia are well documented. Many variables were assessed in our study before and after administration of L-carnitine to randomly selected 37 SC disease (SCD) children for a period of 6 months. Variables such as weight, height, serum ferritin levels, units of blood transfused and the number of veno-occlusive crises all showed significant improvement after the 6 months of therapy with L-carnitine. Our study also showed that cardiac diastolic function and pulmonary hypertension are common in pediatric SCD patients. These two disorders showed some improvement after L-carnitine administration. Therefore, L-carnitine deserves a rigorous large-scale randomized clinical trial to evaluate its potential benefits as treatment for SCD patients with cardiac complications.

UI  - 16405436
TI  - Technetium 99m-diethylene triamine penta-acetic acid aerosol clearance in the evaluation of pulmonary involvement in sickle cell disease.
AB  - Majority of adult SCD patients have delayed DTPA clearance unlike in inflammatory lung diseases, but similar to diabetes mellitus. DTPA clearance may be a useful modality for monitoring pulmonary involvement in SCD.

UI  - 19437841
TI  - [Osteomyelitis in drepanocytosis: epidemiology, diagnosis and treatment. 66 cases, Niamey].
AB  - From January 2001 to June 2003, 66 cases of osteomyelitis in sickle cell disease were collected in the two (2) main hospitals of Niamey (the HNN and the HNL). The sex ratio is 1.27 in favor of the masculine sex. Children payed the heaviest tribute to this. An effect 63.6% patients belong to the group of 0 to 5 years. The consultation is related in 71.21% of cases. This situation would explain itself by the weak level of instruction and income at the more part of families investigated. A door of entrance is identified positively that in 9.09% of cases. The vaso-occlusive crisis is the main factor encouraging and represents 31.57% of antecedents in report with cases of osteomyelitis. Multiple focal localization are observed at 15.15% of patients. Diaphysis are more frequent involved (31.70% of cases).. Staphylococci are the most frequent germs (35.71%) follow salmonellas (14.28%). The medical treatment is used very extensively, notably in the acute osteomyelitis where 100% of patients benefited some with 63.15% of good results.

UI  - 16382063
TI  - Discontinuing prophylactic transfusions used to prevent stroke in sickle cell disease.
AB  - Discontinuation of transfusion for the prevention of stroke in children with sickle cell disease results in a high rate of reversion to abnormal blood-flow velocities on Doppler studies and stroke. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00006182.)

UI  - 16259204
TI  - Incentive spirometry for children with sickle cell disorder.
AB  - 

UI  - 16227994
TI  - Negative epistasis between the malaria-protective effects of alpha+-thalassemia and the sickle cell trait.
AB  - The hemoglobinopathies, disorders of hemoglobin structure and production, protect against death from malaria. In sub-Saharan Africa, two such conditions occur at particularly high frequencies: presence of the structural variant hemoglobin S and alpha(+)-thalassemia, a condition characterized by reduced production of the normal alpha-globin component of hemoglobin. Individually, each is protective against severe Plasmodium falciparum malaria, but little is known about their malaria-protective effects when inherited in combination. We investigated this question by studying a population on the coast of Kenya and found that the protection afforded by each condition inherited alone was lost when the two conditions were inherited together, to such a degree that the incidence of both uncomplicated and severe P. falciparum malaria was close to baseline in children heterozygous with respect to the mutation underlying the hemoglobin S variant and homozygous with respect to the mutation underlying alpha(+)-thalassemia. Negative epistasis could explain the failure of alpha(+)-thalassemia to reach fixation in any population in sub-Saharan Africa.

UI  - 16220548
TI  - Urinary hepcidin in congenital chronic anemias.
AB  - This study examines hepcidin levels in congenital anemias. In SCA, hepcidin was suppressed and inversely associated with erythropoietic drive. In thalassemic syndromes, hepcidin was suppressed relative to the degree of iron burden. Transfusion led to increased uhepcidin. In thalassemia, the relative influence of known hepcidin modifiers was more difficult to assess. In thalassemic syndromes where iron overload and anemia have opposing effects, the increased erythropoietic drive may positively influence hepcidin production.

UI  - 16172253
TI  - Long-term hydroxyurea therapy for infants with sickle cell anemia: the HUSOFT extension study.
AB  - The long-term efficacy and toxicity of hydroxyurea for infants are undefined, and its role in preventing organ dysfunction is unknown. Short-term feasibility of hydroxyurea administration, toxicities, hematologic effects, and effect on spleen function in infants with sickle cell anemia (SCA) were reported (Hydroxyurea Safety and Organ Toxicity [HUSOFT] trial). These infants completing 2 years of hydroxyurea therapy (20 mg/kg/d) were offered study extension with dose escalation to 30 mg/kg/d. Patients were monitored with laboratory tests and biannual imaging studies. Hematologic indices were compared with predicted age-specific values and event rates compared with historic rates. All 21 subjects completing the original trial enrolled in the extension study: median age, 3.4 years old (range, 2.6 to 4.4 years); 12 females; 20 with Hb SS, 1 with Hb S/beta0-thalassemia. Seventeen patients completed 4 years of hydroxyurea, and 11 completed 6 years. After 4 years, hydroxyurea was associated with increased hemoglobin concentration, percentage of fetal hemoglobin (Hb F), and mean corpuscular volume (MCV) and decreased reticulocytes, white blood cells (WBCs), and platelets (P < .01). Patients experienced 7.5 acute chest syndrome (ACS) events per 100 person-years, compared with 24.5 events per 100 person-years among historic controls (P = .001). Treated patients had better spleen function than expected and improved growth rates. Infants with SCA tolerate prolonged hydroxyurea therapy with sustained hematologic benefits, fewer ACS events, improved growth, and possibly preserved organ function.

UI  - 16150876
TI  - Longitudinal relationships of depressive symptoms to pain intensity and functional disability among children with disease-related pain.
AB  - Study findings suggest that T1-depressive symptoms play a role in the longitudinal course of pain symptoms in children with JIA but not in children with SCD.

UI  - 16126058
TI  - Effect of long-term transfusion on growth in children with sickle cell anemia: results of the STOP trial.
AB  - Patients in the Stroke Prevention Trial for Sickle Cell Anemia Study who received CTX had improved height and weight and BMI over a 2-year period. Higher hemoglobin levels resulting from transfusion may improve growth by lowering energy expenditure. In addition to the prevention of vasoocclusive events, CTX results in significant improvement in the growth of children with sickle cell disease.

UI  - 16114181
TI  - In vivo action of Vanillin on delay time determined by magnetic relaxation.
AB  - The antisickling action on polymerization of 4-hydroxy-3-metoxybenzaldehyde (Vanillin) was demonstrated in vivo in a double blind, placebo-controlled clinical therapeutic trial performed in 30 patients (11 belonging to the control group), through the increment of the delay time (td). The td was observed in the kinetic curve of the polymerization of the Hb S solution at 26 degrees C and pH 7.4. The kinetics of the Hb S aliquots was monitored by measuring the proton spin-spin magnetic relaxation time (T2) at 4 MHz. The kinetic curve families of the control group showed similarities and the td values remained constant during the 8 weeks of the study. This was not so for the patients treated with Vanillin, for which the td increased on average 1.6 times. On the other hand, the relative variation of drepanocytes observed by the Simple Test decreased 24.50% Both results indicate a decrease in the effectiveness of the polymerization process.

UI  - 16101613
TI  - Fecundity and pregnancy outcome in a cohort with sickle cell-haemoglobin C disease followed from birth.
AB  - Contrary to some claims, pregnancy outcome in SC disease is generally benign compared with SS disease.

UI  - 16042696
TI  - Sildenafil therapy in patients with sickle cell disease and pulmonary hypertension.
AB  - (1) sickle cell disease patients with anaemia and pulmonary hypertension have significant exercise limitation; (2) the 6-min walk distance may be a valid endpoint in this population; (3) therapy with sildenafil appears safe and improves pulmonary hypertension and exercise capacity. Additional phase I studies in males with sickle cell disease followed by phase II/III placebo controlled trials evaluating the safety and efficacy of sildenafil therapy in sickle cell disease patients with pulmonary hypertension are warranted.

UI  - 15983428
TI  - Inefficacy of piracetam in the prevention of painful crises in children and adolescents with sickle cell disease.
AB  - Analgesia and hydration remain the only safe treatment for painful crises of sickle cell disease; hydroxyurea is effective, but the toxicity is still a problem. Piracetam is a nootropic drug that has reportedly been effective and non-toxic in sickle cell patients, but most studies were not placebo-controlled and included a small number of patients. The present study evaluated the drug in a double-blind crossed placebo-controlled clinical trial in 73 children and adolescents suffering from moderate to severe painful crises for 13 months. Information regarding frequency and severity of pain was acquired through monthly clinical evaluation, visits and house calls, and 4,300 weekly questionnaires filled out by the patients in their domiciles. A monthly pain score was calculated for each patient. Pain was the most frequent adverse manifestation of the disease stressing its significant bio-psycho-social impact. Although nearly all patients and relatives reported a better clinical course throughout the whole study, the drug was ineffective in the prevention of painful crises. This placebo effect may be ascribed to an unplanned and unsystematic 'cognitive-behavioural' management of the children. The pain score in the second semester of the study - both in the experimental and in the control groups - was significantly smaller than that in the first semester. In conclusion, piracetam was found to be ineffective in the prevention of painful crises; a powerful placebo effect due to adequate patient care was demonstrated.

UI  - 15971736
TI  - Multi-site study of transition in adolescents with sickle cell disease in the United Kingdom and the United States.
AB  - Adolescents with sickle cell disease may have problems of adjustment during the phase of transition from pediatric to adult health care. It is important to identify factors that may help in the development of appropriate interventions. We were interested in possible similarities, in terms of adjustment to transition in two countries where health service provision is quite different. The study employed a cross-sectional survey design, with a sample of adolescents (still in pediatric care) drawn from a U.S.A national sample and a single U.K. site. A battery of validated disease-specific measures was used to assess adolescent perceptions of physical and psychological symptoms, self-efficacy, self-management skills, and gather demographic data. There were no significant demographic differences between the samples of adolescents in the two countries. Taken together, the two populations indicate that adolescent age and educational level were associated with symptoms (physical and psychological). Self-efficacy is not associated with demographic factors, but is predicted by physical symptoms, while different aspects of self-management are predicted by age (responsibility with care), educational level (independence and confidence with care) and psychological symptoms (knowledge about SCD and confidence with care). This study highlights the importance of gathering disease-specific transitional information from adolescents with sickle cell disease in the U.K. and U.S.A. It also shows that demographic variables have to be considered in the development of any intervention programme.

UI  - 15970065
TI  - Antenatal screening for haemoglobinopathies in primary care: a whole system participatory action research project.
AB  - Antenatal screening for haemoglobinopathies in general practice lowers the gestational age at which an at-risk pregnancy can be identified. However, widespread implementation of such screening may be too difficult.

UI  - 15917266
TI  - Clinical evaluation of extract of Cajanus cajan (Ciklavit) in sickle cell anaemia.
AB  - The major pathology in sickle cell anaemia (SCA) is sickling of red cells due to the precipitation of reduced haemoglobin. We report our experience with extract of Cajanus cajan as a possible antisickling agent by determining changes, if any, in clinical and laboratory features of the disease in patients given the extract in a single-blind placebo-controlled study. One hundred patients with steady-state SCA were randomized into treatment and placebo arms. The extract/placebo were administered twice daily to the subjects. Weight, hepatosplenomegaly, blood levels of biliurubin, urea, creatinine, and packed cell volume (PCV) were monitored over a 6-month period. Recall episodes of pain 6 months before enrolment were compared with episodes of pains recorded during the treatment period. Twenty-six cases (55.3 per cent) had hepatomegaly on enrolment. This significantly reduced to 33.3 per cent at 6 months (p = 0.03); but increased in the placebo arm (p > 0.05). The total number of recall painful episodes in cases was 207 (mean 4.4 +/- 10.3 (SD), range 0-60) and fell to 191 (mean 4.2 +/- 4.4 (SD), range 0-16); p = 0.03. Episodes of pain increased from 109 in controls (mean 2.6 +/- 5.0 (SD), range 0-26) to 164 (mean 3.9 +/- 4.3 (SD), range 0-22); p = 0.01. Mean PCV in the cases showed no appreciable changes (p = 0.1) but there was a significant increase in the controls (p = 0.02). In conclusion, the extract may cause a reduction of painful crises and may ameliorate the adverse effects of sickle cell anaemia on the liver. The mechanism of action remains to be determined.

UI  - 15890755
TI  - Red blood cell lactate transport in sickle disease and sickle cell trait.
AB  - This study determined and compared rates and mechanisms of lactate transport in red blood cells (RBCs) of persons with 1) sickle cell disease (HbSS), 2) sickle cell trait (HbAS), and 3) a control group (HbAA). Blood samples were drawn from 30 African-American volunteers (10 HbSS, 10 HbAS, 10 HbAA). Lactate influx into RBCs was measured by using [14C]lactate at six (2, 5, 10, 15, 25, and 40 mM) unlabeled lactate concentrations. The monocarboxylate transporter pathway was blocked by p-chloromercuriphenylsulfonic acid to determine its percent contribution to total lactate influx. Generally, total lactate influx into RBCs from the HbSS group was significantly greater than influx into RBCs from HbAS or HbAA, with no difference between HbAS and HbAA. Faster influx into HbSS RBCs was attributed to increased monocarboxylate transporter activity [increased apparent Vmax (V'max)]. V'max (4.7 +/- 0.6 micromol x ml(-1) x min(-1)) for HbSS RBCs was significantly greater than V'max of HbAS RBCs (2.9 +/- 1.5 micromol x ml(-1) x min(-1)) and HbAA RBCs (2.0 +/- 0.5 micromol x ml(-1) x min(-1)). Km (42.8 +/- 8 mM) for HbSS RBCs was significantly greater than Km (27 +/- 12 mM) for HbAA RBCs. We suspect that elevated erythropoietin levels in response to chronic anemia and/or pharmacological treatment (erythropoietin injections, hydroxyurea ingestion) is the underlying mechanism for increased lactate transport capacity in HbSS RBCs.

UI  - 15881719
TI  - [Evaluation of clinical response by hydroxyurea in 132 patients with major sickle cell anemia].
AB  - Hydroxyurea is used since close to 10 years in the treatment of major sickle cell anemia. In African sub Sahara, very little study have been dedicated. Yet, this drug represents nowadays, an alternative tot the bone marrow transplantation in the treatment of this illness. This study permits to illustrate the beneficial effects of this drung on 132 patients affected by of major sickle cell anemia. It is about patients whose middle age is of 28 years (range 14 and 54 years), most frequently masculine sex, followed regularly in the service of haematology of CHUB. The treatment consisted to the administration of the hydroxyurea to the posology between 10 and 30 mg/kg per day. The essentially clinical assessment focused on the sickle cell anemia crises and the modifications of hematologic's parameters. The experimentation has been pursued beyond the 18th month among 108 patients. It takes out again of this survey disappearances of the vasculo occlusive crises among 103 patients on 132 (78.03%) during the first 18 months of the survey. Only 10 patients (7.57%) benefited blood transfusion during the period of the survey because of the infectious complications. The hydroxyurea led a meaningful and spontaneous increase of the haemoglobin rate (+2,54 g/dl) of the middle globular volume (+ 16,02 femtolitres) as well as of the rate of haemoglobin foetale on 65 estimated patients. The hydroxyurea didn't bring any objective improvement on the pre-existing dnnratives complications. The treatment has been interrupted precociously among 5 patients for cytopenia. This survey confirms to short and middle term the beneficial effects of the hydroxyurea on the major sickle cell anaemia.

UI  - 15871756
TI  - Positive expiratory pressure device acceptance by hospitalized children with sickle cell disease is comparable to incentive spirometry.
AB  - These preliminary results show no difference in the primary outcomes in the 2 groups. Intermittent PEP therapy warrants further study as an alternative to IS for sickle cell patients at high risk for ACS, as effective preventive respiratory therapy.

UI  - 15809885
TI  - Deferiprone as an oral iron chelator in sickle cell disease.
AB  - Iron overload is not uncommon in sickle cell disease (SCD) and requires regular chelation therapy in several instances. The present study evaluates the effect of deferiprone in 15 adult patients with SCD (ten beta(s)/beta(0)thalassemia and five beta(s)/beta(s)) and iron overload. Deferiprone was given at a dose of 75 mg/kg daily for 12 months. The evaluation considered pre- and post-treatment values of serum ferritin, urinary iron excretion, and T2 values of liver and heart obtained by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Eleven patients had a liver biopsy prior to starting therapy to evaluate iron concentration (LIC). Twelve patients completed the study with satisfactory compliance. In ten of them (83.3%) the serum ferritin levels decreased significantly at the end of the trial; in eight patients (66.6%) the reduction of serum ferritin was accompanied by a significant increase of their liver T2 values. All patients had a significant increase of urinary iron excretion in response to the drug. Ferritin levels and liver T2 values correlated with liver iron concentration; on the contrary, ferritin levels and liver T2 values failed to show any correlation with heart T2 values. Heart T2 values did not also show any correlation with left ventricular ejection fraction. Deferiprone was well tolerated and did not cause any significant adverse effects. These results suggest that deferiprone may effectively decrease the iron deposition in patients with SCD; moreover, T2 MRI proves to be a reliable and rapid, noninvasive method for assessing the liver iron load in patients with SCD.

UI  - 15778424
TI  - The influence of renal function on hydroxyurea pharmacokinetics in adults with sickle cell disease.
AB  - This was an open-label, nonrandomized, 2-center study conducted to assess the influence of renal function on the pharmacokinetics of hydroxyurea in adults with sickle cell disease (SCD). Seventeen patients were divided into 5 groups: normal renal function (n = 7), mild renal impairment (n = 2), moderate renal impairment (n = 3), severe renal impairment (n = 2), and end-stage renal disease (ESRD, n = 3). Except for patients with ESRD, all the patients received a 15-mg/kg single oral dose of hydroxyurea. Patients with ESRD received a 15-mg/kg oral dose of hydroxyurea on 2 occasions. Blood and urine samples were collected for the assessment of hydroxyurea pharmacokinetics. The results indicate that the systemic exposure increases and the urinary recovery decreases as the degree of renal insufficiency worsens. On the basis of the exposure and the apparent clearance from the current and 2 historical studies, the authors have proposed an initial dosing regimen of hydroxyurea (7.5 mg/kg/day) for SCD patients with CL(cr) <60 mL/min. This dosing strategy is anticipated to provide a safe dose for SCD patients with renal impairment.

UI  - 15612454
TI  - Effects of poloxamer 188 treatment on sickle cell vaso-occlusive crisis: computer-assisted intravital microscopy study.
AB  - Nine patients with sickle cell disease (SCD) who were hospitalized at UC Davis Medical Center for vaso-occlusive crisis (VOC) were studied as part of a randomized double-blind phase III clinical trial to investigate the real-time effects of poloxamer 188 on VOC. All patients showed significant microvascular changes from normal (steady-state) values during VOC (diminished venular diameter and red cell velocity). The patients were randomly assigned to be treated with poloxamer 188 or placebo. Poloxamer 188 (n = 4) but not placebo (n = 5) significantly reversed these microvascular changes approximately 2 hours postinitiation of loading infusion (100 mg/kg in 1 hour). Further significant improvement induced by poloxamer 188 but not placebo was observed > or = 7 hours postinfusion, resulting in a significant reversal of the microvascular changes to steady-state values.

UI  - 15600118
TI  - Paradigms and politics: shaping health care access for sickle cell patients through the discursive regimes of biomedicine.
AB  - The emergence of two different sickle cell disease and disease/treatment paradigms in two clinics, Children's Hospital West (CHW) and Children's Hospital East (CHE), demonstrates how physicians can influence institutional regimes of truth to improve patient access. Physicians at both clinics, far from simply acquiescing to dominant biomedical paradigms, recognize that their paradigms are in part rhetorical strategies designed to subvert problematic staff biases and perceptions, and to encourage a particular "self-efficacy" ethic in the patients. This paper positions physicians as struggling within the discursive regimes of biomedicine to create an institutional space where the disease and the sickle cell patient matter, and where patients comply with the performative rules of that space. This paper explores how physicians, patients, and institutions collaborate in the construction of sickle cell disease in such a way that biomedicine becomes a plural, as opposed to a singular and oppressive, discursive regime.

UI  - 15531901
TI  - Hematopoietic stem cell transplantation for multiply transfused patients with sickle cell disease and thalassemia after low-dose total body irradiation, fludarabine, and rabbit anti-thymocyte globulin.
AB  - Patients with sickle cell disease (N = 3) and thalassemia (N = 1) with high-risk features received hematopoietic stem cell transplantations (HCT) to induce stable (full or partial) donor engraftment. Patients were 9-30 years of age. Fludarabine, rabbit anti-thymocyte globulin (ATG), and 200 cGy total body irradiation were administered pre-transplant. Patients received bone marrow (N = 3) or peripheral blood stem cells (N = 1) from HLA-identical siblings, followed by mycophenolate mofetil and cyclosporine for post-grafting immunosuppression. Significant lymphopenia, but only moderate neutropenia and thrombocytopenia developed post transplant. No grade IV nonhematological toxicities or acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) were observed. At 3 months after transplantation, three of four patients had evidence of donor myeloid chimerism (range, 15-100%). However, after post transplant immunosuppression was discontinued, graft rejection occurred in all but one patient. This patient is now doing well 27 months post transplant with full donor engraftment. One patient died after a second transplant, and another patient experienced a stroke as her graft was being rejected. These results suggest that stable donor engraftment after nonmyeloablative HCT is difficult to achieve among immunocompetent patients with hemoglobinopathies and that new approaches will need to be developed before wider application of this transplantation method for hemoglobinopathies.

UI  - 15517239
TI  - Can peak systolic velocities be used for prediction of stroke in sickle cell anemia?
AB  - Assuming TCDI equipment is used and the STOP protocol is applied, a PSV cutpoint of 200 cm/s is recommended as the threshold for increased TCD surveillance (comparable to a TCD TAMM of 170 cm/s in STOP); a PSV of 250 cm/s is recommended as the cutpoint at which, if confirmed in a second examination, chronic transfusion should be considered. Assuming the STOP scanning protocol is used, PSV is at least as good as TAMM and can be used to select children with SCD for treatment or increased surveillance to prevent first stroke.

UI  - 15505645
TI  - Efficacy of natural honey in the healing of leg ulcers in sickle cell anaemia.
AB  - In order to assess the reported efficacy of natural honey in the healing of chronic ulcers, the efficacy of locally applied natural honey was compared to that of Eusol solution in an open trial involving 20 patients with sickle cell anaemia (SS) who were in steady clinical states and had chronic leg ulceration. All patients were admitted to hospital for the 4 week duration of the trial for bed rest, daily aseptic dressings, and weekly measurement of the size of the ulcer. Fifteen patients with a total of 19 leg ulcers were evaluable at the end of the trial. Eleven ulcers were dressed with honey while 8 were dressed with Eusol. No significant differences were found in rates of healing of the ulcers in either treatment groups. This trial does not support the suggestion that natural honey is superior to Eusol in the healing of chronic sickle cell leg ulceration.

UI  - 15479724
TI  - Butyrate increases the efficiency of translation of gamma-globin mRNA.
AB  - Fetal hemoglobin (Hb F) levels increase in most patients with sickle cell disease following intermittent butyrate therapy. Although the full effects of butyrate on Hb F levels usually require multiple treatment cycles, in some patients a peak level is achieved after a few days of butyrate therapy. Our investigation of the mechanism(s) responsible for this rapid induction of Hb F by butyrate showed that reticulocyte gamma-globin chain synthesis markedly increased within 24 hours of butyrate exposure, without concomitant changes in reticulocyte gamma-globin mRNA levels. This suggests that butyrate might induce Hb F by increasing the efficiency of translation of gamma-globin mRNA. This hypothesis was confirmed by ribosome loading studies that demonstrated enrichment of the polysomal fraction of reticulocytes with gamma-globin mRNA following butyrate exposure. Thus, the induction of Hb F by butyrate may be mediated by translational effects in addition to its well-known effects on transcription of the gamma-globin genes.

UI  - 15454831
TI  - Oral glutamine supplementation decreases resting energy expenditure in children and adolescents with sickle cell anemia.
AB  - After 24 weeks of orally administered glutamine, children and adolescents with sickle cell anemia had a decrease in REE and improvement in nutritional parameters. Those who were underweight had a greater decrease in REE than those of normal body weight. Lowering REE may be an effective way to improve the growth of these children and adolescents.

UI  - 15364502
TI  - Myringotomy and tympanostomy tube placement in children with sickle cell disease.
AB  - The event rate for M&T in children with SCD, compared to a historical control group, is lower than that of the general population. Type and severity of SCD were not predictive of the need for tube insertion. Children with sickle cell disease do not have an increased rate of M&T insertion.

UI  - 15347549
TI  - The effect of magnesium on length of stay for pediatric sickle cell pain crisis.
AB  - IV magnesium appears to decrease the LOS for children with sickle cell pain crisis.

UI  - 15307105
TI  - Follow-up of sickle cell disease patients with priapism treated by hydroxyurea.
AB  - Hydroxyurea is one of the most successfully used therapies for sickle cell disease. Results of many clinical trials point to hydroxyurea administration for patients with frequent painful crises and acute chest syndrome. Priapism is one of the complications that could be prevented by hydroxyurea, but there are few reports demonstrating the results. Since November 1993, hydroxyurea has been used in our clinic for preventing priapism in patients with stuttering or major attacks who are still capable of achieving intercourse on demand. Five patients were enrolled in the study, and 4 cases benefited by this treatment. After the initial treatment for the acute attack, all five patients developed stuttering priapism. Hydroxyurea was then introduced at the initial dose of 10 mg/kg, and as the hydroxyurea dosage increased, the number or length of priapism episodes decreased. One to two months after the maximal dose (20-35 mg/kg) was introduced, the episodes disappeared. In two patients, we were forced to administer over 30 mg hydroxyurea/kg to abort the episodes, and, in another patient, 25 mg/kg was necessary. All patients present normal sexual activity. Hydroxyurea was discontinued in two patients, but stuttering priapism reappeared. Hydroxyurea was then re-introduced, and priapism disappeared. One patient, using 20 mg hydroxyurea/kg, had a 6-year remission of priapism after hydroxyurea administration; however, he experienced stuttering priapism, 1 month before a major attack, that progressed to impotence. During that month, he did not seek medical attention. In conclusion, the data here presented suggests that hydroxyurea may prevent priapism attacks in sickle cell disease, probably at higher doses than usually prescribed for painful crisis prevention.

UI  - 15247929
TI  - Transplantation of unrelated placental blood cells in children with high-risk sickle cell disease.
AB  - The lack of healthy HLA-identical sibs limits the use of allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation in children with high-risk sickle cell disease (SCD). We evaluated unrelated placental blood cell transplantation (UPBCT) after a preparative regimen of busulfan, cyclophosphamide and antithymocyte globulin in three children with SCD who had cerebrovascular accidents (CVAs) and did not have HLA-matched sib donors. The placental blood cell units were matched with the recipients at four of six HLA-A, HLA-B and HLA-DRB1 antigens. Neutrophil levels above 0.5 x 10(9)/l occurred at 23, 38 and 42 days after UPBCT, and platelet levels above 50 x 10(9)/l without transfusions occurred at 62, 81 and 121 days after UPBCT. All patients developed acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD; two grade II, one grade III), and one developed extensive chronic GVHD. One patient had graft failure and autologous hematopoietic recovery. Two patients have complete donor hematopoietic chimerism without detectable hemoglobin S or symptoms of SCD at 40 and 61 months, respectively, after UPBCT. These observations demonstrate the feasibility of UPBCT in children with SCD. Further studies of UPBCT for SCD are needed but, because of risks of procedure-related morbidity and graft rejection, should be restricted to pediatric patients with high-risk manifestations of SCD.

UI  - 15205096
TI  - Clinical response and adverse events in young patients with sickle cell disease treated with hydroxyurea.
AB  - The authors studied the long-term clinical and hematological response to hydroxyurea (HU) therapy in young patients, with either S/beta-thalassemia (beta(thal)) (8 patients) or SS (6 patients). All patients with S/beta(thal) responded well to treatment. Longitudinal evaluation of Hb, HbF, and MCV showed a significant increase compared to baseline levels, but the pattern of HbF changes varied among patients. Changes in HbF and Hb correlated well with baseline HbF. Favorable clinical responses, as documented by decline in hospitalization days for vasoocclusive crisis and transfused units of packed red blood cells, were also noted. During treatment, 1 patient was diagnosed with Hodgkin's lymphoma and 2 patients developed bilateral avascular necrosis of the femoral head. HU seems to be effective in a high proportion of young patients with sickle cell disease and in particular with S/beta(thal), but cannot eliminate occurrence of serious adverse events.

UI  - 15204105
TI  - Non-pharmacologic management of sickle cell pain.
AB  - Patients with sickle cell disease (SCD) suffer from both acute and chronic pain. The latter includes avascular necrosis of the hip joints mostly in the adult population. It has a negative impact on the quality of life of affected individuals and is often associated with depression, disability, unemployment and dependence on opioid analgesics. In this study, we show that a non-pharmacologic approach to management with deep tissue/deep pressure massage therapy technique, including neuromuscular trigger point treatment with acupressure, in patients with SCD has a salutary effect on pain relief and quality of life.

UI  - 15182051
TI  - Safety of purified poloxamer 188 in sickle cell disease: phase I study of a non-ionic surfactant in the management of acute chest syndrome.
AB  - Acute chest syndrome (ACS) is the most common cause of death in patients with sickle cell anemia. Its management is primarily palliative. We performed a Phase I evaluation of purified poloxamer 188 (a non-ionic surfactant) in the management of ACS. Forty-three patients with sickle cell disease and ACS were treated with doses as high as 2960 mg/day by continuous intravenous (IV) infusion. The maximum tolerated dose has not been identified. No evidence of renal toxicity or other limiting adverse events were found. One adult patient died due to sepsis and adult respiratory distress syndrome, which were unrelated to treatment. Poloxamer 188 is safe to administer to patients with ACS, and preliminary data suggest that it may shorten its duration and the length of hospitalization in a dose related manner. Children appeared to benefit more than adults. The data and safety profile justify further studies with purified poloxamer 188 in the treatment of ACS.

UI  - 15114598
TI  - Elevated plasma sVCAM-1 levels in children with sickle cell disease: impact of chronic transfusion therapy.
AB  - Vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1) has been implicated as being important in the pathophysiology of acute pain episodes (APE) and acute chest syndrome (ACS) of sickle cell disease (SCD). The frequency of these episodes is reduced by chronic transfusion therapy. The impact of chronic transfusion therapy on VCAM-1 expression is unknown. Soluble VCAM-1 (sVCAM-1) levels were measured in plasma using an ELISA assay (R&D Systems) in 61 patients with SCD (age range 1.5-20 years) and 12 normal controls (2.5-14 years). SCD patients included 20 with ACS, 14 with APE, 12 at well-child visits, and 15 receiving chronic transfusion therapy. Asymptomatic SCD patients had higher sVCAM-1 levels compared to normal subjects (P < 0.001). Levels of sVCAM-1 were further elevated during ACS (P < 0.001) and APE (P = 0.072) and returned to the asymptomatic range on resolution. Levels were significantly lower in transfused patients (P = 0.003) compared to asymptomatic SCD patients. Our findings of increased VCAM-1 expression during ACS and perhaps APE offer a rationale for therapeutic use of cytokine and other VCAM-1 modulators. The reduction of sVCAM-1 levels observed in our transfused SCD patients offers insight into the mechanism of the protective effect of transfusion against ACS and APE and possibly stroke.

UI  - 15114592
TI  - Effect of red cell exchange transfusion on plasma levels of inflammatory mediators in sickle cell patients with acute chest syndrome.
AB  - Red cell exchange transfusion is the recommended therapy for patients with sickle cell disease (SCD) who have severe, progressive acute chest syndrome (ACS). A double-volume red cell exchange transfusion decreases the percentage of hemoglobin S (Hgb S) containing red blood cells to less than 20%, improving vascular perfusion. We speculated that reduction of pro-inflammatory mediators might also contribute to the therapeutic effect of an exchange transfusion. We measured white blood cell count (WBC), absolute neutrophil count (ANC), platelet concentration as well as plasma levels of interleukin-1alpha (IL-1alpha), interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), interleukin-8 (IL-8), and soluble vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (sVCAM-1) in 8 sickle cell patients with 9 episodes of ACS who received a manual, double-volume exchange transfusion. Six patients with SCD seen during a routine clinic visit were used as controls. The mean number of hospitalization days was 6, with an average of 2 days in the intensive care unit. All patients recovered without complication. Sickle cell patients with ACS had a higher WBC and ANC at baseline but lower sVCAM-1 levels compared to controls. TNF-alpha, IL-1alpha, IL-1beta, and IL-8 levels were not significantly different from controls. WBC, ANC, platelet, and sVCAM-1 measurements were significantly decreased immediately post-exchange in patients with ACS; however, this effect was not persistent as levels trended towards pre-exchange values by 24 hr post-exchange. Due to wide inter-individual variability, a consistent pattern was not seen for TNF-alpha, IL-1alpha, IL-1beta, or IL-8. We conclude that in sickle cell patients with ACS, a manual, double-volume exchange transfusion lowers WBC, ANC, platelets, and sVCAM-1 levels, but the effect is short-lived.

UI  - 15073633
TI  - C677T polymorphism of the MTHFR gene and variant hemoglobins: a study in newborns from Salvador, Bahia, Brazil.
AB  - The C677T polymorphism in the methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase gene (MTHFR) is associated with an increase in total homocysteine serum levels (tHcy), described as a risk factor for cardiovascular disease. Eight hundred forty-three neonates from two different maternity hospitals, one public and another private, in Salvador, Bahia, Brazil were screened for this polymorphism by PCR and RFLP. The T-allele frequency in the total sample was 0.23, and the prevalence rates of heterozygous and homozygous carriers were 36.2% and 5.3%, respectively. The T-allele frequency differed and the T/T genotype was more prevalent at the private maternity hospital. The hemoglobin (Hb) profile was investigated by HPLC in 763 newborns. The frequency of variant Hb was higher at the public than at the private maternity hospital. The association of the C677T polymorphism and the Hb profile was investigated in 683 newborns, showing a relatively high frequency of variant Hbs and the T allele. These data could provide an important basis for further studies focusing on potential risks of vaso-occlusive events in these individuals.

UI  - 15040424
TI  - Polymorphisms near a chromosome 6q QTL area are associated with modulation of fetal hemoglobin levels in sickle cell anemia.
AB  - In patients with sickle cell anemia, fetal hemoglobin (HbF) concentrations vary by 2 orders of magnitude. This variance may be a result of heterogeneity in gene regulatory elements; accordingly, we searched for single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) that might identify this variation. More than 180 SNPs were studied in 38 genes in 280 sickle cell anemia patients. The strongest association with HbF was found with SNPs near a QTL previously localized on chromosome 6q22.3-q23.2. Initially, two SNPs were identified in intergenic portions of this QTL and were associated with about a 20% difference in percent HbF. Subsequently, we genotyped 44 additional SNPs in the genomic region between 136.1 Mb and 137.5 Mb on chromosome 6q. Twelve SNPs, associated with a 20%-30% difference in HbF concentrations, were located in the introns of four genes, PDE7B, MAP7, MAP3K5 and PEX7. In K562 cells, the p38-MAPK pathway has been associated with the activation of gamma-globin gene expression by histone deacetylase inhibitors. Haplotypes C-T-T-T in MAP7 and T-C-C in PEX7 were significantly associated with increases in concentration of HbF, both showing strong dominance. Genetic elements abutting the 6q22.3-q23.2 QTL, may harbor trans-acting elements that help modulate baseline HbF level in sickle cell anemia.

UI  - 15020264
TI  - Effects of hydroxyurea on the membrane of erythrocytes and platelets in sickle cell anemia.
AB  - Hydroxyurea treatment reduces PS expression on the surface of erythrocytes and platelets, thus contributing to the favorable effects of this therapy.

UI  - 15001964
TI  - Systemic exposure to morphine and the risk of acute chest syndrome in sickle cell disease.
AB  - The risk of acute chest syndrome is significantly associated with high systemic exposure to morphine and its active metabolite morphine-6-glucuronide after oral administration of slow-release morphine. Morphine may facilitate respiratory deterioration by eliciting a decrease in oxygen saturation, by inducing histamine release, or through an as-yet-unidentified mechanism. The safe systemic exposure to morphine in terms of area under the concentration-time curve should be further studied in children with sickle cell disease.

UI  - 14985223
TI  - Relation between the response to iron supplementation and sickle cell hemoglobin phenotype in preschool children in western Kenya.
AB  - There was no evidence for a clinically relevant modification by the hemoglobin S phenotype of the effects of iron supplementation in the treatment of mild anemia. The benefits of iron supplementation are likely to outweigh possible risks associated with malaria in children with the HbAA or HbAS phenotype.

UI  - 14962240
TI  - Effect of low-dose warfarin on D-dimer levels during sickle cell vaso-occlusive crisis: a brief report.
AB  - Patients with SCD during vaso-occulsive painful crisis have an elevated D-dimer level. Low-dose anticoagulation treatment is associated with a significant reduction in the D-dimer levels.

UI  - 14751925
TI  - Stroke and conversion to high risk in children screened with transcranial Doppler ultrasound during the STOP study.
AB  - The Stroke Prevention Trial in Sickle Cell Anemia (STOP) was a randomized multicenter controlled trial comparing prophylactic blood transfusion with standard care in sickle cell anemia (SCA) children aged 2 to 16 years selected for high stroke risk by transcranial Doppler (TCD). More than 2000 children were screened with TCD to identify the 130 high-risk children who entered the randomized trial. A total of 5613 TCD studies from 2324 children were evaluated. We also collected information on stroke. We describe the changes in TCD with repeated testing and report the outcome without transfusion in the STOP screened cohort. Risk of stroke was higher with abnormal TCD than with normal or conditional TCD (P <.001) or inadequate TCD (P =.002), and risk with conditional TCD was higher than with normal TCD (P <.001). Repeated TCD in 1215 children showed that the condition of 9.4% of children became abnormal during observation. Younger patients and those with higher initial flow velocities were most likely to convert to abnormal TCDs. Screening in STOP confirmed the predictive value of TCD for stroke. Substantial differences in the probability of conversion to abnormal TCD were observed, with younger children and those with higher velocity more likely to have an abnormal TCD with rescreening.

UI  - 14747361
TI  - A randomized, controlled pilot trial of a school intervention for children with sickle cell anemia.
AB  - A modest educational curriculum can increase knowledge of SCA, is associated with lower absence rates, and yields high consumer satisfaction ratings.

UI  - 14694252
TI  - Pulmonary function abnormalities in children with sickle cell disease.
AB  - Lung function differs significantly in children with SCD compared with ethnic matched controls of a similar age. Our results suggest that restrictive abnormalities may become more prominent with increasing age.

UI  - 14684415
TI  - Magnetic resonance angiography in children with sickle cell disease and abnormal transcranial Doppler ultrasonography findings enrolled in the STOP study.
AB  - The stroke prevention study in sickle cell disease (STOP) demonstrated a 90% reduction in stroke risk with transfusion among patients with time-averaged mean cerebral blood velocity (TAMV) of 200 cm/s or more as measured by transcranial Doppler (TCD). In STOP, 232 brain magnetic resonance angiograms (MRAs) were performed on 100 patients, 47 in the transfusion arm and 53 in the standard care arm. Baseline MRA findings were interpreted as normal in 75 patients and as indicating mild stenosis in 4 patients and severe stenosis in 21 patients. Among 35 patients who underwent magnetic resonance angiography within 30 days of random assignment, the TAMV was significantly higher in 7 patients with severe stenosis compared with 28 patients with normal MRA findings or mild stenosis (276.7 +/- 34 vs 215 +/- 15.6 cm/s; P<.001). In the standard care arm, 4 of 13 patients with abnormal MRA findings had strokes compared with 5 of 40 patients with normal MRA findings (P=.03). In this arm, TAMV became normal (less than 170 cm/s) or conditional (170-199 cm/s) in 26 of 38 patients with normal or mildly abnormal baseline MRA but remained abnormal in 8 of 10 patients with severely abnormal baseline MRA. These results suggest that TCD often detects flow abnormalities indicative of stroke risk before MRA lesions become evident. Furthermore, patients with abnormal MRA findings and higher TCD velocities are at higher risk for stroke, and their cerebral TAMVs are unlikely to decrease without transfusion.

UI  - 14630791
TI  - Sustained long-term hematologic efficacy of hydroxyurea at maximum tolerated dose in children with sickle cell disease.
AB  - Hydroxyurea improves hematologic parameters for children with sickle cell disease (SCD), but its long-term efficacy at maximum tolerated dose (MTD) has not been determined. Between 1995 and 2002, hydroxyurea therapy was initiated for 122 pediatric patients with SCD including 106 with homozygous sickle cell anemia (HbSS), 7 with sickle hemoglobin C (HbSC), 7 with sickle/beta-thalassemia (HbS/ beta-thalassemia [6 HbS/beta0, 1 HbS/beta+]), and 2 with sickle hemoglobin OArab (HbS/OArab). Median age at initiation of therapy was 11.1 years. Hydroxyurea was escalated to MTD, with an average dose of 25.4 +/- 5.4 mg/kg per day; the average duration of hydroxyurea therapy has been 45 +/- 24 months (range, 6-101 months). Hydroxyurea was discontinued for 15 (12%) children with poor compliance. Mild transient neutropenia occurred, but no hepatic or renal toxicity was noted. Hydroxyurea therapy led to significant increases in hemoglobin level, mean corpuscular volume, and fetal hemoglobin (HbF) level, whereas significant decreases occurred in reticulocyte, white blood cell, and platelet counts and serum bilirubin levels. Children with variant SCD genotypes also had hematologic responses to hydroxyurea. HbF induction has been sustained for up to 8 years without adverse effects on growth or increased numbers of acquired DNA mutations. Long-term hydroxyurea therapy at MTD is well tolerated by pediatric patients with SCD and has sustained hematologic efficacy with apparent long-term safety.

UI  - 14615367
TI  - Gene interactions and stroke risk in children with sickle cell anemia.
AB  - Stroke is a devastating complication of sickle cell anemia (SCA), affecting up to 30% of children with the disease. Despite the relative frequency of stroke in SCA, few predictors of risk exist. Because stroke in SCA is likely a multifactorial disease, analysis of the combined effect of multiple genetic variants may prove more successful than evaluation of individual candidate genes. We genotyped 230 children with SCA for 104 polymorphisms among 65 candidate vascular genes to identify risk associations with stroke. Patients were phenotyped based on magnetic resonance imaging/angiography (MRI/MRA) findings into large-vessel (LV) versus small-vessel (SV) disease stroke subgroups. Specific polymorphisms in the IL4R 503, TNF (-308), and ADRB2 27 genes were independently associated with stroke susceptibility in the LV stroke subgroup, while variants in the VCAM1 (-1594) and LDLR NcoI genes were associated with SV stroke risk. The combination of TNF (-308)GG homozygosity and the IL4R 503P variant carrier status was associated with a particularly strong predisposition to LV stroke (odds ratio [OR] = 5.5; 95% confidence interval [CI] = 2.3-13.1). We show that several candidate genes may play a role in predisposition to specific stroke subtypes in children with SCA. If confirmed, these results provide a basis for population screening and targeted intervention to prevent stroke in SCA.

UI  - 14571216
TI  - Invasive pneumococcal infections in children with sickle cell disease in the era of penicillin prophylaxis, antibiotic resistance, and 23-valent pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccination.
AB  - Rates and severity of pneumococcal infections in children with sickle cell disease were examined before licensure of pneumococcal-conjugated vaccine (PVC). Rates of peak invasive infection rates in 1-year-old children with hemoglobin SS and mortality in those 0 to 10 years of age were 36.5 to 63.4 and 1.4 to 2.8 per 1000 person-years, respectively (>10 and 100 times as frequent as in the general population). Overall, 71% of serotyped isolates (n=80) were PVC serotypes and 71% of nonvaccine serotype strains were penicillin-sensitive. Clinical presentation in children with hemoglobin SS (n=71; more with hypotension) and hemoglobin SC (n=18; more with acute chest syndrome, otitis media) differed. Penicillin nonsusceptibility (38% of isolates) varied between geographic study sites. Penicillin prophylaxis appeared less effective against intermediate and resistant strains. Of all infected children, meningitis developed in 20% and 15% died (hemoglobin SS, n=15 and 11; hemoglobin SC, n=1 each). Factors associated with death included age >4 years (58%), serotype 19F, and not being followed by a hematologist (42% each). The pneumococcal-polysaccharide vaccine was 80.4% effective within 3 years after vaccination (95% CI, 39.7, 93.6). Children with sickle cell disease of all ages may benefit from PVC boosted with polysaccharide vaccination.

UI  - 14531921
TI  - Causes of death in sickle cell disease: an autopsy study.
AB  - More precise analysis of causes of death is needed to focus research efforts and improve morbidity and mortality in sickle cell disease. In this study, the morphological evidence of the cause of death was studied in 306 autopsies of sickle cell disease, which were accrued between 1929 and 1996. The most common cause of death for all sickle variants and for all age groups was infection (33-48%). The terminal infection was heralded by upper respiratory tract syndromes in 72.6% and by gastroenteritis in 13.7%. The most frequent portal of entry in children was the respiratory tract but, in adults, a site of severe chronic organ injury. Other causes of death included stroke 9.8%, therapy complications 7.0%, splenic sequestration 6.6%, pulmonary emboli/thrombi 4.9%, renal failure 4.1%, pulmonary hypertension 2.9%, hepatic failure 0.8%, massive haemolysis/red cell aplasia 0.4% and left ventricular failure 0.4%. Death was frequently sudden and unexpected (40.8%) or occurred within 24 h after presentation (28.4%), and was usually associated with acute events (63.3%). This study shows that the first 24 h after presentation for medical care is an especially perilous time for patients with sickle cell disease and an acute event. Close monitoring and prompt aggressive treatment are warranted.

UI  - 12931121
TI  - Results of minimally toxic nonmyeloablative transplantation in patients with sickle cell anemia and beta-thalassemia.
AB  - We describe previously transfused patients with sickle cell disease (n = 6) and thalassemia (n = 1) who received nonmyeloablative hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HCT) to induce stable (full or partial) donor engraftment. Patients were 3 to 20 years (median, 9 years) old. All 7 received pretransplantation fludarabine and 200 cGy of total body irradiation; 2 patients also received horse antithymocyte globulin. Patients received bone marrow (n = 6) or peripheral blood stem cells (n = 1) from HLA-identical siblings, followed by a combination of mycophenolate mofetil and cyclosporine or tacrolimus for postgrafting immunosuppression. After nonmyeloablative HCT, absolute neutrophil counts were <0.5 x 10(9)/L and <0.2 x 10(9)/L for a median of 5 days (range, 0-13 days) and 0 days (range 0-13 days), respectively. A median of 0 (range, 0-9) platelet transfusions were administered. No grade IV nonhematologic toxicities were observed. One patient experienced grade II acute graft-versus-host disease. Two months after transplantation, 6 of 7 patients had evidence of donor chimerism (range, 25%-85%). Independent of red blood cell transfusions, these 6 patients initially had increased total hemoglobin and hemoglobin A concentrations and a reduction of reticulocytosis and transfusion requirements. There were no complications attributable to sickle cell disease during the interval of transient mixed chimerism. However, after posttransplantation immunosuppression was tapered, there was loss of the donor graft, and all patients experienced autologous hematopoietic recovery and disease recurrence. One patient did not engraft. The duration of transient mixed chimerism ranged from 97 to 441 days after transplantation in patients 4 and 6, respectively, and persisted until immunosuppressive drugs were discontinued after transplantation. In summary, the nonmyeloablative HCT regimens described here produced minimal toxicity and resulted in transient donor engraftment in 6 of 7 patients with hemoglobinopathies. Although complications from the underlying hemoglobinopathies did not occur during the period of mixed chimerism, these results suggest that stable (full or partial) donor engraftment after nonmyeloablative HCT is more difficult to achieve among immunocompetent pediatric patients with hemoglobinopathies than among adults with hematologic malignancies, perhaps in part because recipients may have been sensitized to minor histocompatibility antigens of their donor by preceding blood transfusions.

UI  - 12907443
TI  - Effects of 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine on fetal hemoglobin levels, red cell adhesion, and hematopoietic differentiation in patients with sickle cell disease.
AB  - Fetal hemoglobin (HbF) decreases polymerization of sickle hemoglobin (HbS) and improves outcomes in sickle cell disease (SSD). Therefore, a therapeutic goal in SSD is pharmacologic reactivation of HbF. Silencing of the gamma-globin (HbF) gene is associated with DNA methylation. The cytosine analog 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine (decitabine) hypomethylates DNA by inhibiting DNA methyltransferase. We examined if subcutaneous decitabine could increase HbF levels and improve SSD pathophysiology without cytotoxicity. Eight symptomatic SSD patients resistant or intolerant of standard treatment with hydroxyurea received decitabine 0.2 mg/kg subcutaneously 1 to 3 times per week in 2 cycles of 6-week duration. Treatment decreased neutrophils and increased mean HbF (6.5% to 20.4%, P <.0001) and mean total hemoglobin (76 to 96 g/L [7.6 to 9.6 g/dL], P <.001). Features of vaso-occlusive crisis pathophysiology such as red cell adhesion, endothelial damage, and coagulation pathway activity significantly improved. gamma-Globin gene promoter methylation decreased, and platelets and the proportion of megakaryocytes and erythroid cells in the marrow increased without a decrease in marrow cellularity, consistent with a DNA hypomethylating, noncytotoxic mechanism of action. Weekly subcutaneous decitabine produces cumulative increases in HbF and total hemoglobin through a noncytotoxic mechanism of action. Chronic dosing and sustained increases in hemoglobin F and total hemoglobin levels may be possible. Further studies in SSD and thalassemia are indicated.

UI  - 12902916
TI  - Hydroxyurea and arginine therapy: impact on nitric oxide production in sickle cell disease.
AB  - While Arg alone does not increase serum NO(x) production in SCD patients at steady state, it does when given together with HU. Hence, co-administration of Arg with HU may augment the NO(x) response in SCD and improve utilization of Arg in patients at steady state.

UI  - 12902915
TI  - Alpha Thalassemia is associated with decreased risk of abnormal transcranial Doppler ultrasonography in children with sickle cell anemia.
AB  - The frequency of alpha thalassemia-2 was significantly higher in children with normal TCD. Speculation on mechanisms of effect includes improved erythrocyte deformability, reduced red cell adhesion, and reduced nitric oxide scavenging in alpha thalassemia-2. The association of alpha thalassemia-2 and normal TCD adds to the evidence on the protective effects of alpha thalassemia-2 in SCD and highlights the contribution of epistatic factors.

UI  - 12897282
TI  - Transcranial Doppler ultrasonography and neurocognitive functioning in children with sickle cell disease.
AB  - Our findings support the hypothesis that neurocognitive functions subserved by the frontal systems (eg, sustained attention/concentration and executive function) seem to be the most useful indices of progressive cerebrovasculopathy in children with HbSS disease.

UI  - 12837872
TI  - Mycoplasma disease and acute chest syndrome in sickle cell disease.
AB  - M pneumoniae is commonly associated with the ACS in patients with sickle cell anemia and occurs in very young children. M hominis should be considered in the differential diagnosis of ACS. Aggressive treatment with broad-spectrum antibiotics, including 1 from the macrolide class, is recommended for all patients as well as bronchodilator therapy, early transfusion, and respiratory support when clinically indicated.

UI  - 12791593
TI  - Imaging hemoglobin oxygen saturation in sickle cell disease patients using noninvasive visible reflectance hyperspectral techniques: effects of nitric oxide.
AB  - Sickle cell disease is characterized by microvascular occlusion and hemolytic anemia, factors that impair tissue oxygen delivery. We use visible reflectance hyperspectral imaging to quantitate skin tissue hemoglobin oxygen saturation (HbO2) and to determine whether changes in blood flow during nitric oxide (NO) stimulation or gas administration (therapies proposed for this disease) improve skin tissue oxygen saturation in five patients with sickle cell disease. Compared with six healthy African-American subjects, sickle cell patients exhibited higher forearm blood flows (7.4 +/- 1.8 vs. 3.2 +/- 0.4 ml.min-1.100 ml tissue-1, P = 0.037) but significantly reduced percentages of skin HbO2 (61.0 +/- 0.2 vs. 77.5 +/- 0.2%, P < 0.001). Administration of acetylcholine to patients increased blood flow by 15.1 +/- 3.8 ml.min-1.100 ml tissue-1 and the percentage of skin HbO2 by 4.1 +/- 0.3% (P = 0.02, P < 0.001, respectively, from baseline values). Sodium nitroprusside, a direct NO donor, increased blood flow by 3.9 +/- 1.1 ml/min and the percentage of skin HbO2 by 2.9 +/- 0.3% (P = 0.02, P < 0.001, respectively). NO inhalation had no effect on forearm blood flow, yet increased the percentage of skin HbO2 by 2.3 +/- 0.3% (P < 0.001). Percentages of skin HbO2 were exponentially related to blood flow (R = 0.97, P < 0.001), indicating a limit to skin tissue oxygen saturation at high blood flows. Thus, for acetylcholine infusion leading to blood flows sevenfold greater than those of healthy resting African-American subjects, patients still exhibited lower percentages of skin HbO2 (65.2 +/- 0.2 vs. 77.5 +/- 0.2%, P < 0.001). Visible reflectance hyperspectral imaging demonstrates that either the stimulation or the administration of NO pharmacologically or by gas inhalation improves, but does not normalize, skin tissue oxygen saturation in patients with sickle cell disease.

UI  - 12777582
TI  - Delayed hemolytic transfusion reaction/hyperhemolysis syndrome in children with sickle cell disease.
AB  - DHTR/H syndrome occurs in pediatric SCD patients, typically 1 week posttransfusion, and presents with back, leg, or abdominal pain; fever; and hemoglobinuria that may mimic pain crisis. Hb is often lower than it was at the time of original transfusion, suggesting the hemolysis of the patient's own RBCs in addition to hemolysis of the transfused RBCs; a negative DAT and reticulocytopenia are often present. Severe complications including acute chest syndrome, congestive heart failure, pancreatitis, and acute renal failure were associated with DHTR/H syndrome in our patients. DHTR/H in the pediatric sickle cell population is a serious and potentially life-threatening complication of RBC transfusion. It is important to avoid additional transfusions in these patients, if possible, because these may exacerbate the hemolysis and worsen the degree of anemia. DHTR/H syndrome must be included in the differential of a patient who has SCD and vaso-occlusive crisis who has recently had a transfusion.

UI  - 12759471
TI  - Prospective brain imaging evaluation of children with sickle cell trait: initial observations.
AB  - Findings suggest that greater percentage of hemoglobin S is associated with mild vasculopathy. This vasculopathy may explain some of the excess risk of stroke among African Americans.

UI  - 12701116
TI  - Effects of N-acetylcysteine on dense cell formation in sickle cell disease.
AB  - The extent to which dense and irreversible sickle cells (ISCs) contribute to vaso-occlusive episodes in sickle cell disease remains unclear. N-Acetylcysteine (NAC) inhibits dense cell and ISC formation in sickle erythrocytes in vitro and restores glutathione levels toward normal. A phase II double-blind randomized clinical trial was completed to determine the efficacy of NAC in decreasing dense cell and ISC formation, and vaso-occlusive episodes in sickle cell disease. Twenty-one subjects with a history of at least two vaso-occlusive episodes per year and 6% dense cells were enrolled. Four treatment groups were analyzed; NAC at a dose of 2,400 mg per day decreased the percent dense cells from 20.1 +/- 2.9 to 12.6 +/- 2.1 (P < 0.05) and increased red cell glutathione levels from 292.8 +/- 74.5 to 576.7 +/- 155.1 (P < 0.05). In addition, we observed a decrease in vaso-occlusive episodes from 0.03 to 0.006 episodes per person-days and a decreased in relative risk to R = 0.39. Although NAC did not significantly decrease the number of ISCs, there was a downward trend at all doses tested. In summary, NAC inhibited dense cell formation, restored glutathione levels toward normal, and decreased vaso-occlusive episodes at a well-tolerated dose of 2,400 mg per day. To determine the long-term efficacy and safety of NAC, a multicenter phase III clinical trial is required.

UI  - 12687748
TI  - A comparison of two transfusion regimens in the perioperative management of children with sickle cell disease undergoing adenotonsillectomy.
AB  - Adenotonsillar hypertrophy and chronic tonsillitis are common findings in patients with sickle cell disease (SCD). Various preoperative transfusion regimens have been suggested to reduce the population of sickle erythrocytes and correct the anemia, ranging from conservative (correcting the anemia) to aggressive (lowering the level of HbS to less than 30%). A total of 39 patients with SCD were included in the study. They were divided into 2 groups. Fourteen patients in group 1 were assigned aggressive exchange transfusion and 25 patients in group 2 were assigned a conservative (simple) transfusion. The 2 groups were compared for possible operative and postoperative complications. Thirty percent of patients in both groups had postoperative complications. They ranged from mild local infection to acute chest syndrome. Simple transfusion was not associated with higher incidence of complications and resulted in only one-third as many transfusion requirements.

UI  - 12685416
TI  - Leucocyte counts in pregnant Nigerian women with sickle cell trait.
AB  - White blood count (WBC) with differential counts and packed cell volume (PCV) were studied in 100 pregnant and 30 non-pregnant control women aged 18-45 years. Eighty of the pregnant women were homozygous HbAA and 20 heterozygous HbAS. The non-pregnant women's PCV, lymphocyte and eosinophils counts were significantly higher (p < 0.005) while their leucocytes neutrophil counts were significantly lower (p < 0.005) compared with HbAA and HbAS pregnant women. However, HbAS pregnant women had higher leucocyte, lymphocyte and eosinophil counts compared with HbAA, but these were not significant. There were no variations in basophil and monocyte counts. HbAA pregnant women had no change in PCV but significant changes occurred in leucocyte and neurophil counts with increase in the second trimester with decreasing lymphocyte and eosinophil counts in the second and third trimesters. However, HbAS pregnant women had significant increase in PCV in their first trimester, leucocyte and neutrophil counts in their third trimester but no variation in lymphocyte, eosinophil and basophil and monocyte counts. The increased leucocyte and neutrophil counts in the second trimester in HbAA and third trimester in HbAS may be due to genetic factor and/or oestrogen secretion reaching production peak at different periods of pregnancy. The relative increase in these haematological indices in HbAS women may be a protective mechanism against infection during pregnancy.

UI  - 12677174
TI  - UGT1A promoter polymorphisms influence bilirubin response to hydroxyurea therapy in sickle cell anemia.
AB  - Hydroxyurea therapy reduces hemolysis and decreases serum bilirubin levels in children and adults with sickle cell anemia (SCA) and may therefore help prevent the development of cholelithiasis in this patient population. We recently reported that a promoter polymorphism in the uridine diphosphoglucuronate glucuronosyltransferase 1A (UGT1A) gene affects steady-state bilirubin levels and the incidence of gallstones in children with SCA. We have now analyzed the influence of the UGT1A genotype on the therapeutic response to hydroxyurea. A large cohort of children with SCA taking hydroxyurea therapy at the maximum tolerated dose demonstrated significant reductions in hemolysis independent of UGT1A promoter polymorphism genotype, but the hydroxyurea-related decreases in serum bilirubin levels were significantly different. Children with the wild-type 6/6 UGT1A genotype demonstrated normalized bilirubin levels with hydroxyurea therapy, but children with the heterozygous 6/7 or abnormal 7/7 genotypes did not. Children with the abnormal 7/7 genotype, which confers the phenotype of Gilbert syndrome, had bilirubin levels greater than 3 mg/dL despite full-dose hydroxyurea therapy. These data indicate the UGT1A promoter polymorphism is a powerful nonglobin genetic modifier in SCA that influences serum bilirubin both at baseline and on hydroxyurea therapy. UGT1A promoter polymorphisms may therefore influence the ability of hydroxyurea to prevent gallstone formation in patients with SCA.

UI  - 12672732
TI  - Effect of hydroxyurea on mortality and morbidity in adult sickle cell anemia: risks and benefits up to 9 years of treatment.
AB  - Adult patients taking hydroxyurea for frequent painful sickle cell episodes appear to have reduced mortality after 9 of years follow-up. Survival was related to HbF levels and frequency of vaso-occlusive events. Whether indications for hydroxyurea treatment should be expanded is unknown.

UI  - 12626350
TI  - Arginine therapy: a new treatment for pulmonary hypertension in sickle cell disease?
AB  - Pulmonary hypertension is a life-threatening complication of sickle cell disease. L-Arginine is the nitrogen donor for synthesis of nitric oxide, a potent vasodilator that is deficient during times of sickle cell crisis. This deficiency may play a role in pulmonary hypertension. The enzyme arginase hydrolyzes arginine to ornithine and urea, and thus, it may compete with nitric oxide synthase, leading to decreased nitric oxide production. Nitric oxide therapy by inhalation has improved pulmonary hypertension associated with acute chest syndrome in sickle cell disease, and several studies demonstrate therapeutic benefits of arginine therapy for primary and secondary pulmonary hypertension. We sought to determine the effects of arginine therapy on pulmonary hypertension in patients with sickle cell disease. Arginase activity was also determined. Oral arginine produced a 15.2% mean reduction in estimated pulmonary artery systolic pressure (63.9 +/- 13 to 54.2 +/- 12 mm Hg, p = 0.002) after 5 days of therapy in 10 patients. Arginase activity was elevated almost twofold (p = 0.07) in patients with pulmonary hypertension and may limit arginine bioavailability. With limited treatment options and a high mortality rate for patients with sickle cell disease who develop pulmonary hypertension, arginine is a promising new therapy that warrants further investigation.

UI  - 12622584
TI  - Preliminary assessment of inhaled nitric oxide for acute vaso-occlusive crisis in pediatric patients with sickle cell disease.
AB  - Results of this exploratory study suggest that INO may be beneficial for acute vaso-occlusive crisis. These preliminary results warrant further investigation.

UI  - 12544773
TI  - Chlamydia pneumoniae and acute chest syndrome in patients with sickle cell disease.
AB  - C. pneumoniae was the most prevalent pathogen in this study of ACS and was responsible for significant morbidity. Additional research is required to develop effective treatment guidelines for ACS.

UI  - 12538427
TI  - Divergent nitric oxide bioavailability in men and women with sickle cell disease.
AB  - NO bioavailability and NO responsiveness are greater in women than in men with sickle cell disease and determines adhesion molecule expression. Endothelium-dependent blood flows are largely non-NO mediated in male patients. These results provide a possible mechanism for reported sex differences in sickle cell disease morbidity and mortality and provide a basis for novel pharmacological interventions.

UI  - 12517810
TI  - Distinct HLA associations by stroke subtype in children with sickle cell anemia.
AB  - Children with sickle cell anemia (SCA) carry a 200-fold increased risk for cerebral infarction. Stroke can be the result of small-vessel (SV) or large-vessel (LV) disease. However, it is unknown whether these subtypes result from the same pathophysiologic processes. Complete HLA genotyping was performed on 231 eligible children previously enrolled in the Cooperative Study of Sickle Cell Disease (CSSCD). Cerebral infarction on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was documented in 71 patients, and 160 patients had negative findings on MRI. Based on MRI/magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) findings, infarct size, and location, 36 patients were classified as having LV stroke and 35 as having SV stroke. When comparing the total MRI+ group with the MRI- group, HLA DPB1*0401 was associated with increased stroke risk (P =.01), whereas DPB1*1701 (P =.02) conferred protection from stroke. These DPB1 associations with stroke were attributed to the SV stroke group, in whom DPB1*0401 was associated with susceptibility (P =.003) and DPB1*1701 with protection from stroke (P =.06). In the LV stroke subgroup, HLA-A*0102 (P =.02) and -A*2612 (P =.007) conferred susceptibility, whereas -A*3301(P =.04) protected from stroke. These results suggest that specific HLA alleles influence stroke risk and appear to contribute differently to SV and LV stroke subtypes. The distinct HLA associations with SV and LV stroke suggest that different pathologic processes may be involved in the development of stroke in children with SCA. If these results are confirmed in a larger study, HLA type may serve as a useful marker for the early identification of SCA patients at high risk for stroke.

UI  - 12490632
TI  - A prospective study of the relationship over time of behavior problems, intellectual functioning, and family functioning in children with sickle cell disease: a report from the Cooperative Study of Sickle Cell Disease.
AB  - Maternal appraisal of family conflict is a risk factor for the small subgroup of children with SCD with consistent mother-reported behavior problems and a salient intervention target for fostering adaptation.

UI  - 12468915
TI  - Induction of fetal hemoglobin synthesis in children with sickle cell anemia on low-dose oral sodium phenylbutyrate therapy.
AB  - This study was designed to determine if low doses of oral sodium phenylbutyrate (SPB) induce hemoglobin F (HbF) synthesis in children with hemoglobin SS (HbSS). We treated 8 children with HbSS over a period of 5-30 weeks. The initial dose (1.0 g/d) was increased weekly (by 1.0 g/d) until F-reticulocytes doubled. All patients showed an increase in F-reticulocytes (P = 0.002) that was dose-dependent (P = 0.001). Three of 5 patients who continued oral SPB for more than 10 weeks had substantial increases in HbF. We conclude that lower dose SPB is effective in inducing HbF synthesis in some children with HbSS. Further trials are warranted to determine the optimal treatment regimen.

UI  - 12460353
TI  - Priapism in sickle-cell disease; incidence, risk factors and complications - an international multicentre study.
AB  - The incidence of priapism among patients with sickle-cell anaemia is high (35%). The implications of priapism for erectile and sexual function are significant and documented in this large series. The treatment of this condition in these patients remains unstandardised. This study highlights the need for an increased awareness of the problems associated with priapism among patients, families and medical professionals.

UI  - 12388895
TI  - Cognitive behavioural therapy in pain management for sickle cell disease.
AB  - It is well established that the treatment of pain is improved by the incorporation of psychological, social and behavioural components in that treatment (Rosenthiel and Keefe), 1983). However, until very recently, the management of sickle cell disease (SCD) in British hospitals has focused exclusively on the physical dimension of pain (Thomas et al, 1998). Although pain is wrong (vaso-occlusive crisis), every individual reacts in a different way. This reaction is influenced in part by immediate role models, usually within the family, and by a person's cognition (thought patterns, beliefs and expectations) in relation to the pain. This paper presents research that has shown that cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) in SCD is an effective aid in the treatment of chronic pain, reducing psychological distress and boosting confidence.

UI  - 12368691
TI  - Impact of long-term erythrocytapheresis on splenic function in patients with sickle cell disease.
AB  - Fifteen children with sickle cell disease undergoing long-term erythrocytapheresis were assessed for splenic regeneration using abdominal ultrasound and radionuclide spleen scans. Despite a significant level of reduction of hemoglobin S (HbS), none of the 15 patients showed evidence of splenic regeneration. Comparing our results with other published reports on hypertransfusion therapy in patients with sickle cell disease, it appears that the process of splenic regeneration in these patients is minimal and may depend partly on the intensity of transfusion therapy and the length of time that HbS has been maintained below 20%.

UI  - 12244019
TI  - The importance of using ethnically appropriate reference ranges for growth assessment in sickle cell disease.
AB  - Height and weight were measured and body mass index (BMI) calculated in 56 sickle cell disease (SCD), 57 Caucasian (CC), and 63 African/Caribbean (AC) 3-9 year old children. The SCD children were taller, but had similar weight and BMI to the CC controls. The SCD group had lower weight and BMI than the AC controls. The AC controls were of greater height, weight, and BMI than CC controls. These data highlight the importance of using ethnically appropriate reference ranges.

UI  - 12218595
TI  - Streptococcus pneumoniae sepsis and meningitis during the penicillin prophylaxis era in children with sickle cell disease.
AB  - The purpose of this study was to determine the age-related risks, disease-specific risks, and characteristics of serious pneumococcal infections in children with sickle cell disease (SCD) while penicillin prophylaxis was standard. The clinical experiences of three pediatric sickle cell programs spanning January 1, 1992, to May 31, 1998, were combined. Data were collected regarding the patients followed up and the characteristics of bacteremia and meningitis cases. Forty-seven pneumococcal infections (44 bacteremia, 3 meningitis) among 40 patients with SCD were observed. Forty infections occurred in children with homozygous hemoglobin S (SS) during 4108 patient-years at a median age of 22 months; 7 occurred in double heterozygous hemoglobin SC (SC) children during 1777 patient-years at a median age of 23 months. Ten infections occurred among 9 SS children 5 years or older. Most children in whom infections developed were reportedly taking prophylactic penicillin and when older than 24 months old had received Pneumovax (Merck & Co., Inc., West Point, PA, U.S.A. The following pneumococcal serotypes were identified in 15 cases studied: 6A, 6B, 9V, 14, 15B, 18B, 18F, 19F, and 23F. Infections resulted in five deaths and two strokes. The observed severe pneumococcal infection rate in SS children younger than 5 years was less than that reported before penicillin prophylaxis, supporting routine penicillin prophylaxis in this specific population. The optimal duration of penicillin prophylaxis in older children with SCD remains unknown. The administration of 7-valent Prevnar (Wyeth Lederle Vaccines, Philadelphia, PA, U.S.A.) to children younger than 24 months old with SCD should be beneficial, based on the serotype data.

UI  - 12218594
TI  - Vitamin B6 status of children with sickle cell disease.
AB  - Children with SCD-SS had apparently low serum PLP concentrations in the absence of excess vitamin B(6) excretion, suggesting low vitamin B(6) status. Low serum PLP concentration was associated with indicators of poor nutritional status and may be related to increased hemolysis in children with SCD-SS.

UI  - 12114094
TI  - Left ventricular diastolic dysfunction in congenital chronic anaemias during childhood as determined by comprehensive echocardiographic imaging including acoustic quantification.
AB  - The left ventricular systolic performance is well preserved in patients with chronic anaemia due to thalassaemia major and sickle cell disease during early childhood. In both diseases, however, there is left ventricular hypertrophy and measurable abnormalities in the diastolic filling detected by Doppler. Such changes do not fit a specific cardiomyopathic pattern due to diastolic dysfunction i.e. restrictive physiology vs delayed relaxation. Acoustic quantification of left ventricular diastolic parameters (filling rates) was less sensitive than Doppler in detecting these early diastolic abnormalities in both diseases.

UI  - 12073296
TI  - Glomerular filtration rate in Nigerian children with homozygous sickle cell disease.
AB  - The study proposed to assess glomerular filtration rate as determined by endogenous creatinine clearance in steady state Nigeria children with homozygous sickle cell disease and normal controls. Twenty-four hours urinary creatinine clearance was estimated over a 6-month period in 54 steady-state homozygous sickle cell disease and 57 normal control children aged 5 to 13 years. Each child was admitted and a 24-hour urine sample (8.00 am to 8.00 am) was collected both for volume measurement and creatinine concentration determination. Blood was also collected from each child 30 minutes to end of urine collection for plasma creatinine concentration determination, haematocrit and reticulocyte counts. The results were compared between the two groups of children using student's t-test and the chi (X2) square test where necessary. The mean glomerular filtration rates +/- SD (ml/min/1.73 M2) for homozygous sickle cell disease children and normal controls were not significantly different (p > 0.05). Glomerular filtration rate did not differ significantly between the age groups in both patients and normal controls; haematocrits correlated weakly with glomerular filtration rates in the patients (r = +0.213; p < 0.001). Nigerian children with homozygous sickle cell disease who are in steady states have normal glomerular filtration rate that is hardly influenced by increasing age and low haematocrit level.

UI  - 12069211
TI  - Arterialization of peripheral venous blood in sickle cell disease.
AB  - Arterialization of the venous blood is thought to be indicative of cutaneous shunting, and occurs in patients with sickle cell disease (SCD) during vaso-occlusive crisis (VOC). We performed the present study to quantify the amount of shunting that occurs in sickle cell patients presenting at the Howard University Sickle Cell Center, Washington, D.C., as outpatients and for hospitalizations associated with sickle cell crisis. Peripheral venous blood was drawn anaerobically into heparinized syringes from 9 normal control subjects (NC), 24 outpatients (steady-state group), and 14 inpatients during crisis (VOC group). Spectrophotometric measurements were made for the following species of hemoglobin (Hb): oxy-Hb (O2Hb), reduced Hb (RHb), carboxy-Hb (COHb), and met-Hb (MHb). In addition, fetal hemoglobin (HbF) was measured by high-pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC). The O2Hb saturations of the steady state group were not significantly different than those of the NC group (55 +/- 4% vs. 40 +/- 6%). However, the O2Hb saturations of the VOC group were 73 +/- 3%, and this value was found to be significantly greater than those of both the steady-state and the NC groups (p < 0.05). Reduced hemoglobin saturations were inversely related to the O2Hb values, as expected. Compared to the NC group, the steady-state, and VOC groups had greater dyshemoglobin (COHb and MHb) levels (p < 0.05). These findings suggest that the percentages of venous O2Hb and dyshemoglobins may be increased in sickle cell disease even in the absence of VOC. Therefore, the venous O2Hb saturation may be a useful biochemical marker for the arteriovenous shunting and hemodynamic adaptations associated with sickle cell disease.

UI  - 12064923
TI  - Amelioration of painful crises in sickle cell disease by venesections.
AB  - Sickle cell disease patients who acquire iron deficiency may experience a degree of amelioration from painful crises in terms of frequency, severity, and duration. This observation prompted us to identify the potential utility of iron load reduction in the management of this disease. Thirteen sickle cell patients not ameliorated by conventional treatment entered a weekly venesection protocol. Hematological values and painful crises of all degrees of severity were recorded and compared to those of the last 12 months before venesection for each case separately ("historical controls"). A decrease was noted in the frequency and intensity of several types of painful crises. Reduction of iron load by venesection seems to be a simple, safe, side-effect-free, and efficient way of preventing and ameliorating to a large extent painful crises in sickle cell disease. The biological effects of venesection on other parameters of sickle cell disease remain to be determined.

UI  - 12038883
TI  - A randomized, controlled trial of a community-based support program for families of children with chronic illness: pediatric outcomes.
AB  - Our results demonstrate modest positive effects of a family support intervention in promoting the adjustment of children with selective chronic health conditions. Including child life specialists in a community-based intervention may be especially salient for children with chronic illnesses who have low physical self-esteem. The intervention had a similar outcome for all diagnostic groups, suggesting that it could be effective for children with any chronic illness and implemented in a variety of pediatric settings.

UI  - 12032523
TI  - Hydroxyurea therapy associated with declining serum levels of magnesium in children with sickle cell anemia.
AB  - These findings warrant a controlled study of the effects of magnesium supplementation in patients with SCA receiving hydroxyurea. Potentially, such therapy could alleviate or prevent vaso-occlusive crises.

UI  - 12010787
TI  - Maintenance of elevated fetal hemoglobin levels by decitabine during dose interval treatment of sickle cell anemia.
AB  - We have previously demonstrated that 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine (decitabine) augments fetal hemoglobin (HbF) levels in patients with sickle cell anemia (SS) who did not respond to hydroxyurea (HU). The present study was designed to determine the effect of repeated decitabine dosing on HbF levels and hematologic toxicity over a 9-month treatment period. Seven patients (5 HU nonresponders) were entered. One patient had alpha-thalassemia sickle cell anemia. Decitabine was administered by intravenous infusion at a starting dose of 0.3 mg/kg per day, 5 days a week for 2 weeks, followed by a 4-week observation period. If the absolute neutrophil count dropped below 1000, the dose was reduced by 0.05 mg/kg per day in the next cycle. A drug dose was obtained for each patient, and it resulted in an elevated HbF without neutropenia (absolute neutrophil count nadir greater than 1500) or evidence of cumulative toxicity. Average HbF and average maximal HbF levels attained during the last 20 weeks of treatment for the 6 SS patients increased to 13.93% +/- 2.75% and 18.35% +/- 4.46%, respectively, from a pretreatment mean of 3.12% +/- 2.75%. Mean and mean maximal hemoglobin (Hb) levels increased from 7.23 +/- 2.35 g/dL to 8.81 +/- 0.42 g/dL and 9.73 +/- 0.53 g/dL, respectively. Individual maximal F-cell number observed during the trial was 69% +/- 10.12%. The absence of cumulative toxicity may allow shorter intervals between drug treatments, which may lead to higher hemoglobin and HbF levels after several treatment cycles and, therefore, to greater clinical improvement.

UI  - 11972097
TI  - Longitudinal changes in ferritin during chronic transfusion: a report from the Stroke Prevention Trial in Sickle Cell Anemia (STOP).
AB  - There was strong intrapatient correlation between serum ferritin levels and volume transfused but wide interpatient variability early during chronic transfusion therapy. Intrapatient correlation declined at transfusion volumes of more than 250 mL/kg. Direct iron store assessment is needed to determine the clinical significance of serum ferritin variability.

UI  - 11970920
TI  - Coping and health service utilisation in a UK study of paediatric sickle cell pain.
AB  - Sickle cell disease in children involves severe recurrent pain leading to hospitalisation in some cases. Psychological coping patterns are relevant to both pain experience, and the use of acute hospital services. It is likely that children would benefit from community based interventions that incorporate both medical and psychological assessments.

UI  - 11953734
TI  - Risk of recurrent stroke in children with sickle cell disease receiving blood transfusion therapy for at least five years after initial stroke.
AB  - The absence of an antecedent or concurrent medical event associated with an initial stroke is a major risk factor for subsequent stroke while receiving regular transfusions.

UI  - 11938415
TI  - Hydroxyurea in sickle cell disease patients from Eastern Saudi Arabia.
AB  - Hydroxyurea seems to be effective in decreasing the frequency of vasooclusive crises in patient with sickle cell disease from Eastern Saudi Arabia. In this preliminary analysis no major side effects were observed. Long term side effects need to be monitored.

UI  - 11914893
TI  - Scintigraphic follow-up of the effects of therapy with hydroxyurea on splenic function in patients with sickle cell disease.
AB  - Patients with sickle cell disease (SCD) may develop functional asplenia as a chronic complication, secondary to repeated episodes of polymerisation of haemoglobin S. It is known that increased plasma concentrations of fetal haemoglobin (HbF) reduce the polymerisation of haemoglobin S. Hydroxyurea is a chemotherapeutic agent capable of increasing HbF levels in the red blood cells and its use has recently been proposed in the treatment of SCD. The objective of this study was to evaluate the effects of long-term therapy with hydroxyurea on recovery of splenic function. Twenty-one patients (aged 3-22 years; 14 with SS haemoglobinopathy, 7 with Sbeta(0) haemoglobinopathy) were studied with liver/spleen scintigraphy before and after 6 and 12 months of treatment. All studies were submitted to visual inspection and semi-quantitative analyses using spleen/liver ratios. Imaging prior to treatment demonstrated functional asplenia in nine SS patients and one Sbeta(0) patient and impaired splenic function in five SS patients and six Sbeta(0) patients. After treatment, splenic function improved in ten patients, remained unchanged in eight and worsened in three. Using liver/spleen imaging, it was possible to demonstrate that hydroxyurea is capable of improving splenic function in some SCD patients. Improvement is not always possible and frequently does not lead to a normal splenic function even after 1 year of treatment.

UI  - 11902023
TI  - An intervention to increase coping and reduce health care utilization for school-age children and adolescents with sickle cell disease.
AB  - The purpose of this study was to examine whether coping with pain changed immediately and one year after a self-care intervention for school-age children and adolescents with sickle cell disease (SCD). Sixty-five children and 32 adolescents attended an educational program for living with SCD. They were then randomly assigned to relaxation, art therapy or attention-control groups. Coping was measured before, after the intervention, and 12 months later. Thirty-three children and 14 adolescents completed the one year follow-up. Although there was no significant increase in the overall number of coping strategies school-age children and adolescents used from baseline to 12 months, there was a significant increase in those strategies specifically targeted by the intervention. For adolescents, there was a significant increase in the total number of coping scores used before the intervention and one year later. When compared to well African-American adolescents, overall coping scores in this sample were significantly lower. Health care utilization related to clinic visits, emergency department visits and hospitalizations decreased significantly for all participants in the study.

UI  - 11896310
TI  - Clinical significance of RBC alloantibodies and autoantibodies in sickle cell patients who received transfusions.
AB  - The alloimmunization rate is 29 percent in pediatric and 47 percent in adult sickle cell patients when partial or extended RBC antigen match is not performed. However, the delayed serologic and/or hemolytic transfusion reactions did not result in severe clinical outcome in most instances. The most important adverse event was hyperhemolysis, which may be triggered by a transfusion, but was not prevented by matching for RBC antigens. In most instances, the cause of hyperhemolysis was multifactorial.

UI  - 11815322
TI  - Effect of zinc supplementation on growth and body composition in children with sickle cell disease.
AB  - Prepubertal children with SCD-SS may have zinc deficiency and may benefit from zinc supplementation to improve linear growth and weight gain.

UI  - 11806986
TI  - Mobilization, collection, and processing of peripheral blood stem cells in individuals with sickle cell trait.
AB  - Mobilized peripheral blood is increasingly used as the source of hematopoietic stem cells for allogeneic transplantation, currently the only curative approach for sickle cell anemia. However, the safety and feasibility of stem cell mobilization in individuals with sickle cell trait (SCT) has not been documented. This study is a prospective controlled trial to evaluate the safety and feasibility of peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) mobilization in 8 SCT subjects and 8 control subjects matched for age and race. Mobilization with filgrastim 10 microg/kg subcutaneous daily for 5 days was followed by 12-L apheresis on the fifth day. Filgrastim administration was accompanied by similar symptoms in all subjects; no untoward adverse events occurred in either group, including sickle cell crises. CD34+ cell mobilization response was not significantly different between SCT and control subjects. Median CD34+ cell content was also similar in PBSCs collected from SCT versus control subjects, 6.8 versus 3.9 x 10(6) CD34+ cells/70 kg, P =.165. Red cell depletion from SCT products was not possible by using hydroxyethyl starch sedimentation but was achievable with ammonium chloride lysis. There was no evidence of gelling of SCT products after thaw, and no difference in cell recovery was seen among red cell-depleted versus nondepleted products. Cryopreservation in 5% dimethyl sulfoxide/6% pentastarch was associated with superior cell recovery (both SCT and control subjects) compared with 10% dimethyl sulfoxide (P =.001). The study concluded that filgrastim mobilization, large volume apheresis, processing, and cryopreservation appears to be safe in donors with SCT, allowing PBSC use for transplantation in patients with sickle cell anemia.

UI  - 11787529
TI  - Stable mixed hematopoietic chimerism after bone marrow transplantation for sickle cell anemia.
AB  - A multicenter investigation of allogeneic bone marrow transplantation for children with sickle cell disease was conducted that included 27 European and North American transplant centers. Fifty-nine patients who ranged in age from 3.3 to 15.9 years (median, 10.1 years) received HLA-identical sibling marrow allografts between September 1991 and April 2000. Fifty-five patients survive, and 50 survive free from sickle cell disease, with a median follow-up of 42.2 months (range, 11.8 to 115 months) after transplantation. Of the 50 patients with successful allografts, 13 developed stable mixed donor-host hematopoietic chimerism. The level of donor chimerism, measured > or =6 months after transplantation in peripheral blood, varied between 90% and 99% in 8 patients. Five additional patients had a lower proportion of donor cells (range, 11% to 74%). Among these 5 patients, hemoglobin levels varied between 11.2 and 14.2 g/dL (median, 11.3 g/dL; mean, 12.0 g/dL). In patients who had donors with a normal hemoglobin genotype (Hb), the Hb S fractions were 0%, 0%, and 7%, corresponding to donor chimerism levels of 67%, 74%, and 11%, respectively. Among patients who had donors with sickle trait, the Hb S fractions were 36% and 37%, corresponding to donor chimerism levels of 25% and 60%, respectively. Thus, allograft recipients with stable mixed chimerism had Rb S levels similar to donor levels, and only 1 patient required a red blood cell transfusion beyond 90 days posttransplantation. None of the patients have experienced painful events or other clinical complications related to sickle cell disease after transplantation. These observations strongly suggest that patients with sickle cell disease who develop persistent mixed hematopoietic chimerism after transplantation experience a significant ameliorative effect.

UI  - 11756146
TI  - Predictors of fetal hemoglobin response in children with sickle cell anemia receiving hydroxyurea therapy.
AB  - In the phase I/II pediatric hydroxyurea safety trial (HUG-KIDS), school-aged children with sickle cell anemia receiving hydroxyurea at the maximally tolerated dose (MTD) had variable increases in the percentage of fetal hemoglobin (%HbF). To identify predictors of the HbF response to hydroxyurea therapy, baseline clinical and laboratory values (age, sex, hemoglobin concentration, %HbF, reticulocytes, white blood cell [WBC], platelets, and serum chemistries), as well as treatment variables (number of toxicities, noncompliance, MTD dose, and MTD blood counts) were analyzed in 53 HUG-KIDS children who achieved MTD. Baseline %HbF values (P =.001), baseline hemoglobin concentration (P =.01), MTD dose (P =.02), and compliance (P =.02) were significantly associated with a higher %HbF at MTD; in contrast, age, sex, number of toxicities, and other baseline hematologic parameters were not. After adjusting for variations in baseline %HbF, the baseline reticulocyte count (P =.05) and baseline WBC count (P =.05) were also significantly associated with a higher %HbF at MTD. Hydroxyurea-induced increases in the hemoglobin concentration and mean corpuscular volume (both higher absolute values at MTD and larger positive changes from baseline values), as well as hydroxyurea-induced decreases in reticulocytes and WBC count, were significantly associated with a higher %HbF at MTD. These data suggest that selected baseline laboratory parameters, a higher MTD dose with attention to compliance, and greater therapy-related changes in blood counts may predict the HbF response to hydroxyurea therapy for children with sickle cell anemia. The HbF response to hydroxyurea is variable and complex, however, and even children with low baseline %HbF values can develop substantial increases in %HbF at MTD.

UI  - 11754399
TI  - Low adjusted-dose acenocoumarol therapy in sickle cell disease: a pilot study.
AB  - Vasoocclusion is a continuous process in sickle cell disease (SCD) and accumulates to significant end organ damage, mostly irrespective of the occurrence of manifest acute vasoocclusive events. As there are indications that reversing the hypercoagulable state may be of clinical benefit in sickle cell patients, we performed a randomized, double blind, placebo-controlled, cross-over pilot study to assess the efficacy and safety of low-adjusted dose acenocoumarol therapy (International Normalized Ratio: 1.6-2.0) in SCD. Treatment consisted of either acenocoumarol or placebo for 14 weeks, after which treatment was discontinued for a period of five weeks. Then, patients initially on acenocoumarol received placebo (and vice versa) for 14 weeks. Therapy efficacy was assessed by comparing the frequency of vasoocclusive complications, the occurrence of bleeding, and clotting activation between acenocoumarol and placebo treatment of each individual patient. Twenty-two patients (14 homozygous [HbSS] and 8 double heterozygous sickle-C [HbSC]; aged 20-59 years) completed the entire study. Acenocoumarol treatment did not result in a significant reduction of acute vasoocclusive events (three painful crises during acenocoumarol, five painful crises during placebo). There was a marked reduction of the hypercoagulable state (depicted by a decrease in plasma levels of prothrombin F1.2 fragments [P = 0.002], thrombin-antithrombin complexes [P = 0.003], and D-dimer fragments [P = 0.001]) without the occurrence of major bleeding. Even though no clinical benefit (pertaining to the frequency of painful crises) was detected in this pilot study, the value of low adjusted-dose acenocoumarol for preventing specific events (such as strokes) and as a long-term treatment of sickle cell patients should be subject of further study.

UI  - 11735775
TI  - Silent infarcts in children with sickle cell anemia and abnormal cerebral artery velocity.
AB  - Transfusion therapy lowers the risk for new silent infarct or stroke for children having both abnormal TCD ultrasonographic velocity and silent infarct. However, those with both abnormalities who are not provided transfusion therapy are at higher risk for developing a new silent infarct or stroke than are those whose initial MRI showed no abnormality. The finding of a silent infarct reinforces the need for TCD ultrasonographic screening and consideration of transfusion therapy if the abnormalities are seen. Similarly, elevated TCD ultrasonographic velocity warrants MRI of the brain because children with both abnormalities seem to be at increased risk for developing new silent infarct or stroke.

UI  - 11743503
TI  - A two-year pilot trial of hydroxyurea in very young children with sickle-cell anemia.
AB  - Hydroxyurea therapy for infants with SCA is feasible and well tolerated, has hematologic efficacy, and may delay functional asplenia. The potential for hydroxyurea to preserve organ function in SCA should be further evaluated.

UI  - 11743502
TI  - Impact of chronic transfusion on incidence of pain and acute chest syndrome during the Stroke Prevention Trial (STOP) in sickle-cell anemia.
AB  - Compliance with aggressive chronic transfusion reduces the frequency of acute chest syndrome and pain episodes.

UI  - 11694150
TI  - Purified poloxamer 188 for treatment of acute vaso-occlusive crisis of sickle cell disease: A randomized controlled trial.
AB  - A decrease in the duration of painful episodes and an increase in the proportion of patients who achieved resolution of the symptoms were observed when the purified poloxamer 188-treated patients were compared with the patients receiving placebo. However, the difference between these groups was significant but relatively small. In subgroup analysis, a more significant effect on both parameters was observed in children and in patients who were receiving concomitant hydroxyurea. It is important to confirm both of these observations in further prospective trials.

UI  - 11688916
TI  - Oral citrulline as arginine precursor may be beneficial in sickle cell disease: early phase two results.
AB  - L-Arginine may be a conditionally essential amino acid in children and adolescents with sickle cell disease, particularly as required substrate in the arginine-nitric oxide pathway for endogenous nitrovasodilation and vasoprotection. Vasoprotection by arginine is mediated partly by nitric oxide-induced inhibition of endothelial damage and inhibition of adhesion and activation of leukocytes. Activated leukocytes may trigger many of the complications, including vasoocclusive events and intimal hyperplasias. High blood leukocyte counts during steady states in the absence of infection are significant laboratory risk factors for adverse complications. L-Citrulline as precursor amino acid was given orally twice daily in daily doses of approximately 0.1 g/kg in a pilot Phase II clinical trial during steady states in four homozygous sickle cell disease subjects and one sickle cell-hemoglobin C disease patient (ages 10-18). There soon resulted dramatic improvements in symptoms of well-being, raised plasma arginine levels, and reductions in high total leukocyte and high segmented neutrophil counts toward or to within normal limits. Continued L-citrulline supplementation in compliant subjects continued to lessen symptomatology, to maintain plasma arginine concentrations greater than control levels, and to maintain nearly normal total leukocyte and neutrophil counts. Side effects or toxicity from citrulline were not experienced. Oral L-citrulline may portend very useful for palliative therapy in sickle cell disease. Placebo-controlled, long-term trials are now indicated.

UI  - 11673898
TI  - Mass spectral analysis of asymmetric hemoglobin hybrids: demonstration of Hb FS (alpha2gammabetaS) in sickle cell disease.
AB  - Formation of the asymmetric hemoglobin hybrid FS (alpha2gammabetaS) inhibits hemoglobin S (Hb S) polymerization in vitro and underlies the protective effect of fetal hemoglobin (Hb F) in homozygous sickle cell disease. Conventional methods for separating Hb reveal only symmetric Hb tetramers because of the rapid dissociation of tetramers to dimers relative to the separation time for electrophoresis and chromatography. To gain insight into the quantitative distribution of asymmetric Hb FS and other tetrameric species in sickle cell disease, the noncovalent association of Hb subunits in hemolysates was studied by a novel application of electrospray ionization mass spectrometry (ESI-MS). Mass spectra of both patient and fetal blood revealed predominance of tetrameric species with dimer and monomer subunits in lower abundance. ESI-MS analysis revealed the hybrid Hb AF (alpha2gammabetaA) in hemolysates shown by conventional high-performance liquid chromatography to contain only the symmetric species Hb A (alpha2betaA2) and Hb F (alpha2gamma2). A unique tetramer of average mass 64,558 Da was identified in hemolysates from patients with sickle cell disease in accordance with the calculated mass of the asymmetric Hb hybrid FS. Hybrid Hb species were stable under the ESI-MS conditions employed allowing concurrent determination of the proportions of Hb FS and the symmetrical Hb S (alpha2betaS2). The ratios of Hb FS to Hb S correlated closely (r2 = 0.96) with those predicted under physiological conditions.

UI  - 11570641
TI  - Effect of anti-IL-6 and anti-10 monoclonal antibodies on the suppression of the normal T lymphocyte mitogenic response by steady state sickle cell disease sera.
AB  - Previously published work has shown that sera from healthy sickle cell disease (SCD) patients inhibits normal lymphocyte mitogenic response to phytohemagglutinin (PHA) in vitro. The current study is to attempt to ascertain what effect antibody to type 2 cytokines, interleukin (IL)-6 and 10, have on the suppression of lymphocyte PHA response by SCD sera. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC), separated by density gradient were obtained from 2 healthy normal donors. Sera from 50 healthy SCD patients, 50 normal healthy controls and pooled normal O, Rh+ (O+) sera were utilized in standard in vitro PHA stimulation of PBMC cultures. Mitogenic responses were expressed as mean counts per minute (cpm) of triplicate cultures. Fifty triplicate cultures of PHA stimulated normal PBMC were done with 10% normal pooled O+, normal control and SCD steady state sera only. In addition 50 cultures were done with SCD sera containing 1 microg/ml of anti-IL-6 monoclonal antibody, as well as 28 SCD serum cultures containing 1 microg/ml of anti-IL-10 monoclonal antibody. The final 11 SCD serum culture experiments contained a combination of both anti-IL-6 and anti-IL-10 antibody, each at the concentration of 1 microg/ml. Results revealed > 15% suppression of mitogenic response in the SCD sera supplemented cultures as compared to control sera in 47/50 (94%) and in 40/50 (80%) of normal pooled O+, as calculated by mean cpm. The degree of suppression ranged from 17% to 98% in individual experiments. The addition of anti IL-6 antibody alone significantly improved mean cpm (> 20%) in 19/50 (38%) of SCD serum responses compared to O+ sera and 23/50 (46%) of control sera. Complete correction occurred in 9/50 (18%) of all SCD serum suppressions as compared to O+ sera and 6/50 (12%) when compared to control sera. Similarly, anti-IL-10 antibody decreased suppression of the mean cpm of SCD serum cultures in 18/28 (64%) and completely corrected 3/18 (11%). The combined antibody data revealed >20% increase in mean cpm in 10/11(91%) experiments. Inhibitors of mitogenic response were present in a significant percentage of the SCD sera utilized in the present study. The significant corrective effects of both monoclonal antibodies would seem to support the original hypothesis that high circulating levels of type 2 cytokines may represent the cell-mediated dependent inhibitory factors expressed in the sera of many healthy SCD patients.

UI  - 11552063
TI  - Prospective RBC phenotype matching in a stroke-prevention trial in sickle cell anemia: a multicenter transfusion trial.
AB  - This is the first multicenter study to show that extended RBC phenotyping can be implemented nationwide. Compared to studies, the alloimmunization rate dropped from 3 percent to 0.5 percent per unit, and hemolytic transfusion reactions dropped by 90 percent. It is recommended that all transfused sickle cell anemia patients be antigen matched for E, C, and Kell. Patients should be closely monitored during transfusions to avoid preventable risks.

UI  - 11515714
TI  - Double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomised cross-over clinical trial of NIPRISAN in patients with Sickle Cell Disorder.
AB  - The study was undertaken to determine the safety and efficacy of NIPRISAN, a phytomedicine, developed for the management of patients with Sickle Cell Disorder (SCD). The study design is a placebo-controlled double blind cross-over trial. Eighty-two (82) patients with SCD were recruited and randomised into two groups. An initial 4 month pre-trial study was undertaken to determine the similarity of the groups. The main study was conducted over a twelve-month period with crossover at six months. Safety of the drug was assessed clinically and biochemically. NIPRISAN significantly (P < 0.01) reduced the frequency of SCD crisis associated with severe pains. Acute toxicity to the liver assessed by the activities of liver enzymes, indicate that NIPRISAN is safe. Renal function assessed by the serum levels of creatinine and blood urea nitrogen remained normal. Both the clinical and laboratory results of the present phase IIB (pivot) clinical study suggest that NIPRISAN is a safe and efficacious phytomedicine for the management of patients with Sickle Cell Disorder.

UI  - 11486797
TI  - Comparison of transcranial color Doppler imaging (TCDI) and transcranial Doppler (TCD) in children with sickle-cell anemia.
AB  - Measurements using the Acuson system are modestly lower than those obtained with dedicated Doppler using the Nicolet TCD.

UI  - 11434842
TI  - Maternal outcomes of a randomized controlled trial of a community-based support program for families of children with chronic illnesses.
AB  - A family support intervention can have beneficial effects on the mental health status of mothers of children with chronic illnesses. This type of intervention can be implemented in diverse pediatric settings.

UI  - 11435048
TI  - In vitro effects of hyperbaric oxygen on sickle cell morphology.
AB  - Hyperbaric oxygen appears to have no effect on the morphology of sickle cells in vitro. Other mechanisms may account for the beneficial clinical effects of hyperbaric oxygen in sickle cell crisis, although in vivo studies are warranted.

UI  - 11434703
TI  - Reduction of pain episodes and prothrombotic activity in sickle cell disease by dietary n-3 fatty acids.
AB  - The effects of dietary n-3 fatty acids (n-3FAs) on the frequency of pain episodes and ex vivo blood tests of thrombosis have been evaluated in patients with sickle cell disease (SCD) utilizing a double-blind, olive oil-controlled clinical trial. Dietary n-3FA therapy (0.1 g/kg/d) was provided as menhaden fish oil (0.25 g/kg/d) containing 12% eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA), and 18% docosahexaenoic acid (DHA). Within 1 month dietary n-3FAs exchanged with n-6FAs in plasma and erythrocyte membrane phospholipids (p <0.01 in all cases). Treatment with dietary n-3FAs for 1 year reduced the frequency of pain episodes requiring presentation to the hospital from 7.8 events during the preceding year to 3.8 events/year (p <0.01; n = 5). By contrast, subjects receiving control dietary olive oil (n = 5) experienced 7.1 pain events/year, compared to 7.6 during the previous year (p >0.4). The reduction in episodes in n-3FA-treated subjects was also significant when compared to control subjects (p <0.01). Dietary n-3FA therapy was not associated with hemorrhagic, gastrointestinal or other adverse effects. Compared to 10 asymptomatic African-American controls, sickle cell subjects demonstrated significantly increased pretreatment: 1) flow cytometric expression of platelet membrane P-selectin (CD62p; p <0.01) and annexin V binding sites (p = 0.02); 2) plasma levels of platelet-specific secretory proteins platelet factor 4 (PF4) and beta-thromboglobulin (betaTG) (p <0.01 in both cases); 3) plasma products of thrombin generation, prothrombin fragment 1.2 (F1.2) and thrombin:antithrombin (TAT) complex (p <0.01 in both cases); and 4) plasma levels of thrombolytic products, D-dimer and plasmin:antiplasmin (PAP) complex (p <0.01 in both cases). Treatment with dietary n-3FAs concurrently decreased plasma levels of F1.2, D-dimer, and PAP (p <0.05, compared to olive oil controls), implying that the reduction in pain events was related to n-3FA-dependent inhibition of thrombosis. We conclude that dietary n-3FAs reduce the frequency of pain episodes perhaps by reducing prothrombotic activity in sickle cell disease.

UI  - 11372003
TI  - Aspartame effect in sickle cell anemia.
AB  - Further evaluations of the efficacy of aspartame for sickle crisis and crisis prevention appears to be warranted.

UI  - 11300353
TI  - Clinical and hematological responses to hydroxyurea in Sicilian patients with Hb S/beta-thalassemia.
AB  - Although, several reports have detailed that hydroxyurea can ameliorate the clinical course of adult and pediatric patients with sickle cell anemia (Hb S or beta(S)), few clinical studies have been carried out in patients with beta(S)/beta-thalassemia. In a two-year clinical study, we evaluated the efficacy of hydroxyurea in a group of 22 adult Sicilian patients with beta(S)/beta-thalassemia with severe phenotypes. Among the 20 patients evaluated during 2 years of treatment, we observed a very good clinical response with a 93% reduction of the annual number of crises (median 7 versus 0.5 crises per year; P < 0.001) and of days in hospital (mean 22+/- 21.9 versus 1.2 +/- 2.3; P < 0.001), a significant increase in Hb F (7.5 +/- 5.3% versus 25.2 +/- 5.2%; P < 0.001) and in MCV (73.1 +/- 4.8 fL versus 96.4 +/- 7.2 fL; P < 0.001), and no significant modifications in Hb (9.6 +/- 1.3 g/dL versus 10.0 +/- 1.5 g/dL; P > 0.05) and in WBC (11.4 +/- 3.9 x 10(9)/L versus 10.2 +/- 3.9 x 10(9)/L; P > 0.05). Twelve patients had no crises from the first month of treatment; 16 patients showed a 2-3-fold increase over baseline in Hb F. During the study no severe complications and no important side effects of hydroxyurea were observed. Our data suggest that hydroxyurea efficacy in patients with beta(S)/beta-thalassemial may be greater than that described in patients with sickle cell disease. This pattern and durability of response will need to be confirmed in a larger, randomized, clinical trial.

UI  - 11288031
TI  - Effects of insulin on glucose uptake and leg blood flow in patients with sickle cell disease and normal subjects.
AB  - The hemodynamic concept of insulin resistance assumes that vasodilatory effects of insulin determine glucose uptake. Sickle cell disease (SCD) is characterized by microangiopathy and microvascular occlusion. Therefore, we hypothesized that patients with SCD have a reduced insulin-mediated glucose uptake. In 8 patients with SCD and 8 matched normal controls, we studied the effects of a 4-hour insulin infusion (50 mU/kg/h) on glucose uptake and leg blood flow (LBF) using the euglycemic clamp technique and venous occlusion plethysmography. Time-control experiments were performed in the same subjects. Insulin-mediated glucose uptake (M value, mg/kg/min) did not differ between patients with SCD and control subjects during the second (6.3 +/- 4.6 and 7.6 +/- 2.6, P =.5), third (7.5 +/- 4.6 and 9.3 +/- 3.4, P =.4) and fourth hour (8.6 +/- 4.7 and 11.0 +/- 2.9, P =.2) of the clamp. At baseline, LBF was higher in the patients with SCD than in the controls (3.28 +/- 1.68 and 1.37 +/- 0.47 mL/min/dL, respectively; P =.005). Insulin-induced increases in LBF in patients with SCD and in normal subjects were not different (P =.9). Respectively, 56% and 24% of the changes in glucose uptake could be explained from changes in LBF in the course of the insulin infusion in the patients with SCD and controls. We suppose that the comparable insulin sensitivity between both groups is due to a compensatory hemodynamic state in SCD characterized by vasodilation and increased flow.

UI  - 11259518
TI  - Daily coping practice predicts treatment effects in children with sickle cell disease.
AB  - Brief training in coping skills followed by minimal therapist contact may lead to a range of benefits when children practice with their skills on a consistent basis.

UI  - 11220742
TI  - Improved cerebrovascular patency following therapy in patients with sickle cell disease: initial results in 4 patients who received HLA-identical hematopoietic stem cell allografts.
AB  - To test whether magnetic resonance angiography can document the evolution of vasculopathy in patients with sickle cell disease, we reviewed records to identify all patients who underwent magnetic resonance angiography from 1993 to 1999. Of 512 angiographies performed, 105 were of sickle cell disease patients, and 24 sickle cell disease patients 7 years of age or older underwent baseline and follow-up examinations. Films were paired by patient, blinded as to examination date and treatment, and quantitatively compared. Four patients who received allogeneic bone marrow transplantation were compared to 7 patients who received other therapy and to 13 untreated patients. Quantitative analysis revealed a 10% increase in the measured diameter of 64 vessels (p = 0.001) following any treatment. Patients who had undergone allogeneic bone marrow transplantation exhibited a 12% increase in the lumen of 22 vessels (p = 0.041), whereas patients treated with chronic transfusion or hydroxyurea exhibited an 8% increase in 42 vessels (p = 0.016). In 2 patients with severe stenosis, the artery normalized after transplantation, and the blood flow rate was reduced in all patients who underwent transplantation. In untreated patients, there was a trend for the size of the arterial lumen to decrease, which is consistent with disease progression. Results suggest that treatment can reverse progression of vasculopathy. Bone marrow transplantation may enable stenoses to heal and can substantially reduce cranial blood velocity, suggesting that allogeneic bone marrow transplantation may prevent infarction or brain damage.

UI  - 11206959
TI  - Iron overload is a determinant of morbidity and mortality in adult patients with sickle cell disease.
AB  - Patients with sickle cell disease (SCD) often require blood transfusion starting in early childhood. Multiple blood transfusions on a chronic basis lead to excessive accumulation of iron, especially in adults with sickle cell anemia (SS) that is progressively increasing in size. Blood exchange transfusion and the use of iron chelation therapy may prevent or delay the onset of iron overload. The majority of adults with SS, however, require episodic blood transfusions on a chronic basis and, hence, are at risk to develop iron overload. Recent reports suggest an association between iron overload and organ failure in chronically transfused patients. Patients with SCD and iron overload may thus be at increased risk to develop organ failure compared to those with normal iron stores. In order to clarify this issue we have prospectively collected the following data on our adult patients with SCD between 1978 and 1998: (1) the amount of blood transfused; and (2) the status of iron stores determined with serum ferritin, serum iron, total iron binding capacity (TIBC), and percent transferrin saturation (% Sat). Between 1987 and 1998, 247 adult patients with SS were regularly followed in our sickle cell center. Of these, 152 (62%) were transfused with 4,875 units of red blood cells (RBCs). Transfused patients received an average of 10 units of RBCs per year, which is equivalent to about 2.0 g of iron per year. This does not include transfusions at other institutions or before 1987. About one third of the adult patients with SS had % Sat greater than 50 in the steady state, suggesting iron overload. During painful episodes serum ferritin increased significantly in paired observations. Serum iron and TIBC decreased during painful episode disproportionately so that there was a significant net decrease in % Sat in paired observations. Patients with low values of serum ferritin and % Sat had lower incidence of acute painful episodes (38% v 64%) and organ failure (19% v 71%) than those who had iron overload, respectively. Mortality was significantly higher in the iron overload group: 64% versus 5%, respectively. Taken together, the data indicate that (1) the status of iron stores in adults with SS is best determined by keeping accurate records of the amount of blood transfused and serial determinations of ferritin levels in the steady state; (2) a significant number of adults with SS have iron overload; and (3) iron overload seems to be a predisposing factor of disease severity.

UI  - 11112383
TI  - Reduction of the clinical severity of sickle cell/beta-thalassemia with hydroxyurea: the experience of a single center in Greece.
AB  - The use of hydroxyurea for the prevention of sickle cell crises in patients with homozygous HbS disease is now well established. The beneficial effects of this compound stem from (a) selective enrichment of red cells containing an increased amount of fetal hemoglobin, which inhibits HbS polymerization, and (b) a decrease of leukocytes, platelets, and reticulocytes, which significantly limits their adherence to the vascular wall. We report the results of a clinical trial of hydroxyurea on 55 Greek-origin patients with sickle cell/beta-thalassemia and 14 patients with homozygous HbS disease who have been treated with hydroxyurea for several years. Such patients have a higher probability to benefit from hydroxyurea therapy, since in addition to its antisickling effect, the increase of gamma-chain synthesis is expected to diminish the deleterious effects of the unbound alpha-globin chains. Selection of patients and monitoring throughout the whole trial were done by the same clinicians. Quantitative expression of the clinical condition was done using a system scoring several outcome parameters. For a period of 52 months prior to starting treatment, the total score of severity for 59 evaluable patients was 1182 points (3068 patient-weeks), while for the 12,018 patient-weeks of the trial this parameter fell to only 82 points. Other observations of interest include the significant improvement of a group of patients with hepatic cholestasis, the development of leg ulcers possibly related to the treatment, and the dramatic increase of hemoglobin F, often in association with an increase of the total hemoglobin levels as a result of decreased hemolysis.

UI  - 11071188
TI  - Antisickling activity of sodium cromoglicate in sickle-cell disease.
AB  - Two groups of patients with sickle-cell disease were given a single dose of sodium cromoglicate by inhalation or nasal route. The striking decrease in sickle cells after treatment by both routes lends support to the role of sodium cromoglicate in sickle-cell disease treatment.

UI  - 11040718
TI  - Prenatal sickle cell screening education effect on the follow-up rates of infants with sickle cell trait.
AB  - Our data suggest that prenatal education for expectant mothers which includes information about newborn sickle cell screening significantly increases the follow-up rate for infants with sickle cell trait and contributes to a greater retention of information.

UI  - 10961864
TI  - Effect of active prenatal management on pregnancy outcome in sickle cell disease in an African setting.
AB  - Sickle cell disease (SCD) is associated with an increased risk of medical complications during pregnancy. In sub-Saharan Africa, fetal and maternal mortality rates are particularly high. This study evaluated the effect of an active prenatal management program on pregnancy outcome in patients with SCD in an African setting. Pregnant women with SCD attending the National Teaching Hospital in Cotonou (The Republic of Benin, West Africa) were recruited before the 28th week of gestation. Management was based on providing information and education about SCD and improving nutritional status, malaria prevention, early detection of bacterial infections, and restricted use of blood transfusion. Maternal and fetal mortality rates and SCD-related morbidity were the principal variables assessed. One hundred and eight patients (42 SS and 66 SC) with 111 fetuses were included in the study. Thirteen fetal deaths (from 9 SS and 4 SC mothers) were recorded and 2 deaths of SC mothers. The maternal mortality rate of 1.8% was comparable with the overall maternal mortality rate for this maternity unit (1.2%). Few SCD-related events were recorded. Plasmodium falciparum malaria infection was the major cause of morbidity. Sixty-three patients (19 SS and 44 SC) successfully completed their pregnancy (58.3%) without requiring transfusion. Providing pregnant SCD patients with relevant medical care based on simple cost-effective approaches can have a positive impact on SCD-associated morbidity and mortality in an otherwise difficult setting in Africa. (Blood. 2000;96:1685-1689)

UI  - 10959904
TI  - Multicenter comparison of magnetic resonance imaging and transcranial Doppler ultrasonography in the evaluation of the central nervous system in children with sickle cell disease.
AB  - Abnormal TCD and MRI examinations reveal different aspects of the pathophysiology of central nervous system (CNS) injury in sickle cell disease and are often discordant. Although TCD abnormality is predictive of overt stroke, the lack of concordance between TCD and MRI findings suggests a need to develop more sensitive and specific indicators of early CNS pathology, such as neuropsychometric testing and positron-emission tomography (PET) scans, and to obtain more information about microvascular pathologic processes that may affect CNS function.

UI  - 10959903
TI  - Use of hydroxyurea in children ages 2 to 5 years with sickle cell disease.
AB  - The efficacy and side effects of hydroxyurea in young children with sickle cell disease are unknown. The authors followed-up eight young children (mean age 3.7 years) during therapy with hydroxyurea for an average of 137 weeks. Total and fetal hemoglobin levels rose with hydroxyurea therapy. Hospital admission rates and total hospital days decreased during hydroxyurea therapy. No unexpected toxicity occurred, and growth and development were unaffected. This pilot study suggests that hydroxyurea is safe and effective in young children with sickle cell disease.

UI  - 10930052
TI  - Safety and efficacy of meso-2,3-dimercaptosuccinic acid (DMSA) in children with elevated blood lead concentrations.
AB  - Dimercaptosuccinic acid is apparently safe and does mobilize lead into the urine, but not the essential metals, zinc and copper. Reexposure is always a danger; therefore, all children, while on therapy, should be monitored for their blood lead concentration at weekly intervals during and immediately after therapy. No conclusions can be drawn from this study regarding long-term beneficial effects, if any, of this drug on late neurocognitive outcome.

UI  - 10891433
TI  - Severity of iron overload in patients with sickle cell disease receiving chronic red blood cell transfusion therapy.
AB  - Chronic transfusion therapy is being used more frequently to prevent and treat the complications of sickle cell disease. Previous studies have shown that the iron overload that results from such therapy in other patient populations is associated with significant morbidity and mortality. In this study we examined the extent of iron overload as well as the presence of liver injury and the predictive value of ferritin in estimating iron overload in children with sickle cell disease who receive chronic red blood cell transfusions. A poor correlation was observed between serum ferritin and the quantitative iron on liver biopsy (mean 13.68 +/- 6.64 mg/g dry weight; R = 0.350, P =.142). Quantitative iron was highly correlated with the months of transfusion (R = 0.795, P <.001), but serum ferritin at biopsy did not correlate with months of transfusion (R = 0.308, P =.200). Sixteen patients had abnormal biopsies showing mild to moderate changes on evaluation of inflammation or fibrosis. Liver iron was correlated with fibrosis score (R = 0.50, P =.042). No complications were associated with the liver biopsy. Our data suggest that, in patients with sickle cell disease, ferritin is a poor marker for accurately assessing iron overload and should not be used to direct long-term chelation therapy. Despite high levels of liver iron, the associated liver injury was not severe.

UI  - 10880059
TI  - Factors that influence adolescent adaptation to sickle cell disease.
AB  - Psychosocial factors proved to be better predictors of adaptation than biomedical risk factors. Additional research is needed to better understand the nature of the interrelationships among biomedical risk factors, psychosocial factors, and adaptation.

UI  - 10861320
TI  - Causes and outcomes of the acute chest syndrome in sickle cell disease. National Acute Chest Syndrome Study Group.
AB  - Among patients with sickle cell disease, the acute chest syndrome is commonly precipitated by fat embolism and infection, especially community-acquired pneumonia. Among older patients and those with neurologic symptoms, the syndrome often progresses to respiratory failure. Treatment with transfusions and bronchodilators improves oxygenation, and with aggressive treatment, most patients who have respiratory failure recover.

UI  - 10853305
TI  - Outer orbital distance, inner canthal distance and interpupillary distance, proptosis in children with homozygous sickle cell disease.
AB  - A slow growth of orbital tissue in children with homozygous sickle cell was suggested to explain the difference with healthy children. Other biometric studies comparing the orbital measurements with the rest of the body are needed to confirm or refute this hypothesis.

UI  - 10830200
TI  - Multicenter prospective study of children with sickle cell disease: radiographic and psychometric correlation.
AB  - After obtaining familial informed consent, between January 1996 and July 1997, 173 children (5 to 15 years old) with sickle cell disease were enrolled in a prospective multicenter study using blood screening, transcranial Doppler ultrasonography (n = 143), cerebral magnetic resonance imaging (n = 144), and neuropsychologic performance evaluation (n = 156) (Wechsler Intelligence tests WISC-III, WIPPSI-R), which were also performed in 76 sibling controls (5 to 15 years old). Among the 173 patients with sickle cell disease (155 homozygous for hemoglobin SS, 8 sickle cell beta0 thalassemia, 3 sickle cell beta+ thalassemia, 7 sickle cell hemoglobin C disease SC), 12 (6.9%) had a history of overt stroke, and the incidence of abnormal transcranial Doppler ultrasonography (defined as mean middle cerebral artery velocity > 200 cm/sec or absent) was 8.4% in the overall study population and 9.6% in patients with homozygous sickle cell anemia The silent stroke rate was 15%. Significantly impaired cognitive functioning was observed in sickle cell disease patients with a history of stroke (Performance IQ and Full Scale IQ), but also in patients with silent strokes (Similarities, Vocabulary, and Verbal Comprehension). However, infarcts on magnetic resonance imaging were not the only factors of cognitive deficit: Verbal IQ, Performance IQ, and Full Scale IQ were strongly impaired in patients with severe chronic anemia (hematocrit < or = 20%) and in those with thrombocytosis (platelets > 500 x 10(9)/L). Multivariate logistic regression analysis showed that abnormal magnetic resonance imaging (odds ratio [OR] = 2.76) (P = .047), hematocrit < or =20% (OR = 5.85) (P = .005), and platelets > 500 x 10(9)/L (OR = 3.99) (P = .004) were independent factors of cognitive deficiency (Full Scale IQ < 75) in sickle cell disease patients. The unfavorable effect of low hematocrit has already been suggested, but this is the first report concerning an effect of thrombocytosis and showing that silent stroke alone is not a factor of cognitive deficit when not associated with low hematocrit or thrombocytosis. The effect of hydroxyurea, which is known to increase hematocrit and decrease platelet count, on cognitive functioning of sickle cell patients should be evaluated prospectively.

UI  - 10822931
TI  - Bioelectrical impedance analysis of the body composition of Nigerian children with sickle cell disease.
AB  - We used bioelectrical impedance (BIA) to investigate the body composition of children with sickle cell disease (SCD) in northern Nigeria. A total of 48 children with SCD and 51 controls between 3 and 20 years of age were studied. A significant difference was found in the weights of male subjects over the age of 10 years compared to controls (p = 0.01), but not in height. Significant differences were also observed for SCD males in the 10-18-year-old age range in body mass index (p = 0.001), fat free mass (p = 0.001), per cent fat free mass, (p = 0.02), body fat (p = 0.02), and per cent body fat (p = 0.02). No significant differences in any of these parameters between SCD subjects and controls were obtained for males under the age of 10 years. There were no significant differences in the height, weight, body mass index, or fat free mass for female SCD subjects compared to controls over the age range we studied. However, there were significant differences in the per cent fat free mass (p = 0.006), body fat (p = 0.025), and per cent body fat (p = 0.01) for female SCD subjects over the age of 10 years compared to controls. In addition to documenting differences in the body composition of adolescent boys with sickle cell disease in Nigeria, this study also demonstrated the feasibility of using bioelectrical impedance to analyse the body composition of individuals under the hot, arid conditions which prevail in sub-Saharan Africa.

UI  - 10815784
TI  - Cost-effectiveness of hydroxyurea in sickle cell anemia. Investigators of the Multicenter Study of Hydroxyurea in Sickle Cell Anemia.
AB  - The Multicenter Study of Hydroxyurea in Sickle Cell Anemia (MSH) demonstrated the efficacy of hydroxyurea in reducing the rate of painful crises compared to placebo. We used resource utilization data collected in the MSH to determine the cost-effectiveness of hydroxyurea. The MSH was a randomized, placebo-controlled double-blind clinical trial involving 299 patients at 21 sites. The primary outcome, visit to a medical facility, was one of the criteria to define occurrence of painful crisis. Cost estimates were applied to all outpatient and emergency department visits and inpatient hospital stays that were classified as a crisis. Other resources for which cost estimates were applied included hospitalization for chest syndrome, analgesics received, hydroxyurea dosing, laboratory testing, and clinic visits for management of patient care. Annualized differential costs were calculated between hydroxyurea- and placebo-receiving patients. Hospitalization for painful crisis accounted for the majority of costs in both arms of the study, with an annual mean of $12,160 (95% CI: $9,440, $14,880) for hydroxyurea and $17,290 (95% CI: $13,010, $21,570) for placebo. The difference in means was $5,130 (95% CI: $60, $10,200; P = 0.048). Chest syndrome was the next largest cost with a mean difference of $830 (95% CI: $-340, $2,000; P = 0.16). The hydroxyurea arm was also associated with lower costs for emergency department visits, transfusion, and use of opiate analgesics. In total, the annual average cost per patient receiving hydroxyurea was $16,810 (95% CI: $13,350, $20,270) and the annual average costs per patient receiving placebo was $22,020 (95% CI: $17,340, $26,710). The difference in means was $5,210 (95% CI: $-610, $11,030; P = 0.21). The cost of hydroxyurea with the more intensive monitoring required when using this drug appears to be more than offset by decreased costs for medical care of painful crisis and analgesic use. Although the total cost difference was not significant statistically, these results suggest that hydroxyurea therapy is cost-effective compared to placebo in the management of adult patients with sickle cell anemia. If hydroxyurea can prevent development of chronic organ damage, long-term savings may be even greater.

UI  - 10793299
TI  - Sickle cell anemia: a potential nutritional approach for a molecular disease.
AB  - A certain population of red blood cells in patients with sickle cell anemia has an elevated density and possesses an abnormal membrane. These "dense cells" have a tendency to adhere to neutrophils, platelets, and vascular endothelial cells, and, thus, they could trigger vasoocclusion and the subsequent painful crisis from which these patients suffer. We developed a laboratory method of preparing such dense cells and found that nutritional antioxidant supplements, hydroxyl radical scavengers, and iron-binding agents could inhibit the formation of dense cells in vitro. The concentrations at which effective nutritional supplements could inhibit dense cell formation by 50% were 4.0 mg/mL for aged garlic extract, 0.38 mg/mL for black tea extract, 0.13 mg/mL for green tea extract, 0.07 mg/mL for Pycnogenol, 930 microM for alpha-lipoic acid, 270 microM for vitamin E, 45 microM for coenzyme Q(10), and 32 microM for beta-carotene. Both an ex vivo study and a pilot clinical trial demonstrated that a cocktail consisting of daily doses of 6 g of aged garlic extract, 4-6 g of vitamin C, and 800 to 1200 IU of vitamin E may indeed be beneficial to the patients.

UI  - 10779839
TI  - Preliminary study of working memory in children with stroke related to sickle cell disease.
AB  - The verbal working memory abilities of children with stroke related to sickle cell disease (SCD) (n = 20) were compared to those of control children with SCD who had no history of stroke (n = 11). Memory span for one-, two-, and three-syllable words was assessed. For children with anterior infarcts, overall span was comparable to that of controls, but the typical effect of word length on span was reduced. For children with diffuse infarcts, overall span was reduced in comparison to that of controls, but the typical effect of word length on span was observed. For children with posterior infarcts, overall span was comparable to that of controls and the typical effect of word length on span was observed. These results provide preliminary evidence that patterns of working memory performance may vary across children with infarcts affecting different regions of the brain.

UI  - 10779038
TI  - Plasma homocysteine levels in sickle cell disease and the need for folate supplementation.
AB  - 

UI  - 10767192
TI  - A prospective study of soft-tissue ultrasonography in sickle cell disease patients with suspected osteomyelitis.
AB  - Ultrasonography should be the initial investigation in SCD patients if osteomyelitis is suspected clinically. In such a clinical setting, a finding of 4 mm depth or more of subperiosteal fluid appears to be diagnostic. Previous statements that the presence of any subperiosteal fluid indicates infection are shown to be inaccurate. Patients with less than 4 mm of subperiosteal fluid require further imaging or aspiration to establish the diagnosis of osteomyelitis.

UI  - 10761600
TI  - [Prevention of sickle cell crises with multiple phlebotomies].
AB  - The striking decrease of the number of hospitalization days for all the patients suggests a closed relationship between therapy and clinical improvement. The mechanism of this effect is probably multifactorial: a) the concentration of Hb level is known to influence the blood viscosity and its decrease always improved rheology in sickle cell disease patients; b) the mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration is a critical factor concerning the HbS molecule polymerization in sickle cell disease, and its slight reduction may have an important biological effect. We observed these two biological modifications in our patients and suggest that they mediate the clinical effects. The iron deficiency induced by phlebotomies has no evident deleterious consequence either on height and weight in the children or on intellectual performance in any patients.

UI  - 10747265
TI  - An open comparative study of dispersible piroxicam versus soluble acetylsalicylic acid for the treatment of osteoarticular painful attack during sickle cell crisis.
AB  - We compared the efficacy and tolerability of oral piroxicam 1 mg/kg/day with soluble aspirin given at 100 mg/kg/day taken four-hourly in 58 patients with sickle cell anaemia and severe ostcoarticular painful attacks requiring hospitalization in a randomized, paralleled study. Main investigational criteria were pain relief, limitation of movement, fever, and insomnia or agitation. Both groups were well-matched at the commencement of therapy but most patients on piroxicam showed remarkable and significant pain relief and improvement in other parameters within 24 h. Unwanted effects were absent in the piroxicam-treated group whereas those treated with aspirin experienced nausea and vomiting. There were no significant changes in liver function tests with both forms of treatment. Oral piroxicam is an effective and safe treatment in the management of the osteoarticular painful crisis in sickle cell anaemia. It might prevent the use of parenteral analgesics and hospitalization and reduce the loss of school hours in patients who are being treated for bone pain crises that characterize sickle cell anaemia.

UI  - 10745133
TI  - The diagnostic role of gadolinium enhanced MRI in distinguishing between acute medullary bone infarct and osteomyelitis.
AB  - The objective of the study was to evaluate the diagnostic utility of contrast enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) for distinguishing between acute medullary bone infarct and osteomyelitis. There were 11 patients (age 6-34 years) presented to our institution between December 1994 and February 1998 with a clinical differential diagnosis of acute bone infarct versus osteomyelitis and inconclusive radiographs were imaged using MRI. All but one received i.v. gadolinium. Nine of the patients had homozygous Sickle Cell disease (SCD) and two had Systemic Lupus Erythematosus (SLE), the latter requiring chronic methylprednisolone. Osteomyelitis was confirmed either by biopsy alone or by the combination of Gallium(67) scan in conjunction with positive blood cultures and clinical resolution following antibiotics. Infarcts without osteomyelitis were confirmed either by biopsy or resolution of symptoms without antibiotic therapy. All patients had at least six months clinical follow-up. The results found that seven of nine patients with SCD had acute infarct only. One patient with SCD had osteomyelitis only. Three patients (two SLE and one SCD) had both acute-on-chronic infarcts and superimposed osteomyelitis, one with an adjacent soft tissue abscess. Accurate distinction between infarct and osteomyelitis was impossible for one patient with SLE who did not receive contrast. All other cases were correctly diagnosed prospectively based on distinct patterns of MRI contrast enhancement. In all adult patients, acute infarcts demonstrated thin, linear rim enhancement on MRI while osteomyelitis revealed more geographic and irregular marrow enhancement. Two of four cases of osteomyelitis also demonstrated subtle cortical defects with abnormal signal traversing marrow and soft tissue. The single pediatric patient demonstrated elongated, serpiginous central medullary enhancement with periostitis. We concluded that the pattern of MR contrast enhancement may allow accurate distinction between acute infarct and osteomyelitis, or recognition of osteomyelitis superimposed on bone infarction.

UI  - 10730037
TI  - Xmn I polymorphic site in Yemeni sickle cell disease patients.
AB  - To investigate the molecular basis of severe clinical presentation in sickle cell disease (SCD) patients in Yemen, this study was conducted on 30 Yemeni SCD patients living in Riyadh and attending King Khalid University Hospital. Seven individuals without SCD were used as controls. Haematological parameters, red cell indices, Hb A2 and Hb F levels were estimated and haemoglobin variant were identified on electrophoresis profiling. DNA was extracted from the buffy coat separated from fresh blood samples and was treated with the restriction endonuclease: Xmn I. The fragments generated were separated on electrophoresis, transferred to nitrocellulose and hybridized to a 32P-labelled probe of gamma-globin gene. After extensive washing, two bands, 8.1 kb and 7.0 kb in size, were obtained. The frequency of occurrence of the presence of Xmn I polymorphic site (7.0 kb fragment) and its absence (8.1 kb fragment) were documented. The results in Yemeni SCD patients were compared with the results obtained previously in Saudi Arabs. Of the 30 SCD patients from Yemen 29 had only the 8.1 kb fragment and one had only the 7.0 kb fragment. This gave the frequency of 0.966 for the absence (-) and 0.033 (+) for the presence of Xmn I polymorphic site. This is the same result as that reported earlier for SCD patient from southwestern Saudi Arabia [(-) = 0.966; (+) = 0.033] but is significantly different from that reported in the eastern province [(-) = 0.068; (+) 0.932)] of Saudi Arabia. This paper presents the nature of molecular linkage in SCD patients from Yemen.
