
UI  - 24436121
TI  - A pilot study of electronic directly observed therapy to improve hydroxyurea adherence in pediatric patients with sickle-cell disease.
AB  - This study demonstrates electronic DOT is feasible, acceptable, and can achieve high HU adherence. Further study is needed to confirm that electronic DOT can improve HU adherence and impact clinical outcomes in children with SCD.

UI  - 24276838
TI  - Intravenous magnesium sulfate for vaso-occlusive episodes in sickle cell disease.
AB  - IV MgSO4 was well tolerated but had no effect on the LOS in hospital, pain scores, or cumulative analgesia use in admitted children with a VOE.

UI  - 24035168
TI  - Effect of extended-release niacin on serum lipids and on endothelial function in adults with sickle cell anemia and low high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels.
AB  - Through bound apolipoprotein A-I (apoA-I), high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) activates endothelial nitric oxide synthase, inducing vasodilation. Because patients with sickle cell disease (SCD) have low apoA-I and endothelial dysfunction, we conducted a randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled trial to test whether extended-release niacin (niacin-ER) increases apoA-I-containing HDL-C and improves vascular function in SCD. Twenty-seven patients with SCD with levels of HDL-C <39 mg/dl or apoA-I <99 mg/dl were randomized to 12 weeks of niacin-ER, increased in 500-mg increments to a maximum of 1,500 mg/day, or placebo. The primary outcome was the absolute change in HDL-C level after 12 weeks, with endothelial function assessed before and at the end of treatment. Niacin-ER-treated patients trended to greater increase in HDL-C level compared with placebo treatment at 12 weeks (5.1  7.7 vs 0.9  3.8 mg/dl, 1-tailed p = 0.07), associated with significantly greater improvements in the ratios of low-density lipoprotein to HDL-C levels (1.24 vs 1.95, p = 0.003) and apolipoprotein B to apoA-I levels (0.46 vs 0.58, p = 0.03) compared with placebo-treated patients. No improvements were detected in 3 independent vascular physiology assays of endothelial function. Thus, the relatively small changes in HDL-C levels achieved by the dose of niacin-ER used in our study are not associated with improved vascular function in patients with SCD with initially low levels of apoA-I or HDL-C.

UI  - 23999955
TI  - Hydroxyurea is associated with lower costs of care of young children with sickle cell anemia.
AB  - Savings on inpatient care resulted in a significantly lower overall estimated medical care cost for young children with sickle cell anemia who were receiving hydroxyurea compared with those receiving placebo. Because cost savings are likely to increase with age, these data provide additional support for broad use of hydroxyurea treatment in this population.

UI  - 23946212
TI  - Efficacy and safety of deferasirox compared with deferoxamine in sickle cell disease: two-year results including pharmacokinetics and concomitant hydroxyurea.
AB  - We report a prospective, randomized, Phase II study of deferasirox and deferoxamine (DFO) in sickle cell disease patients with transfusional iron overload, with all patients continuing on deferasirox after 24 weeks, for up to 2 years. The primary objective was to evaluate deferasirox safety compared with DFO; long-term efficacy and safety of deferasirox was also assessed. We also report, for the first time, the safety and pharmacokinetics of deferasirox in patients concomitantly receiving hydroxyurea. Deferasirox (n = 135) and DFO (n = 68) had comparable safety profiles over 24 weeks. Adverse events (AEs) secondary to drug administration were reported in 26.7% of patients in the deferasirox cohort and 28.6% in the DFO cohort. Gastrointestinal disorders were more common with deferasirox, including diarrhea (10.4% versus 3.6%) and nausea (5.2% versus 3.6%). The most common AE in the DFO group was injection-site pain irritation, which occurred in 7% of patients. Acute renal failure occurred in one patient on deferasirox who was continued on medication despite progressive impairment of renal function parameters. Serum ferritin levels were reduced in both treatment groups. Patients continuing on deferasirox for up to 2 years demonstrated an absolute median serum ferritin decrease of -614 ng/mL (n = 96). Increasing deferasirox dose was associated with improved response and a continued manageable safety profile. Concomitant hydroxyurea administration (n = 28) did not appear to influence the efficacy, safety (including liver and kidney function), and pharmacokinetic parameters of deferasirox.

UI  - 23861242
TI  - Pain and other non-neurological adverse events in children with sickle cell anemia and previous stroke who received hydroxyurea and phlebotomy or chronic transfusions and chelation: results from the SWiTCH clinical trial.
AB  - To compare the non-neurological events in children with sickle cell anemia (SCA) and previous stroke enrolled in SWiTCH. The NHLBI-sponsored Phase III multicenter randomized clinical trial stroke with transfusions changing to hydroxyurea (SWiTCH) (ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00122980) compared continuation of chronic blood transfusion/iron chelation to switching to hydroxyurea/phlebotomy for secondary stroke prevention and management of iron overload. All randomized children were included in the analysis (intention to treat). The Fisher's Exact test was used to compare the frequency of subjects who experienced at least one SCA-related adverse event (AE) or serious adverse event (SAE) in each arm and to compare event rates. One hundred and thirty three subjects, mean age 13  3.9 years (range 5.2-19.0 years) and mean time of 7 years on chronic transfusion at study entry, were randomized and treated. Numbers of subjects experiencing non-neurological AEs were similar in the two treatment arms, including SCA-related events, SCA pain events, and low rates of acute chest syndrome and infection. However, fewer children continuing transfusion/chelation experienced SAEs (P = 0.012), SCA-related SAEs (P = 0.003), and SCA pain SAEs (P = 0.016) as compared to children on the hydroxyurea/phlebotomy arm. The timing of phlebotomy did not influence SAEs. Older age at baseline predicted having at least 1 SCA pain event. Patients with recurrent neurological events during SWiTCH were not more likely to experience pain. In children with SCA and prior stroke, monthly transfusions and daily iron chelation provided superior protection against acute vaso-occlusive pain SAEs when compared to hydroxyurea and monthly phlebotomy.

UI  - 23828223
TI  - A dose-escalation phase IIa study of 2,2-dimethylbutyrate (HQK-1001), an oral fetal globin inducer, in sickle cell disease.
AB  - 2,2-Dimethylbutyrate (HQK-1001), an orally-bioavailable promoter-targeted fetal globin gene-inducing agent, was evaluated in an open-label, randomized dose-escalation study in 52 subjects with hemoglobin SS or S/(0) thalassemia. HQK-1001 was administered daily for 26 weeks at 30 mg/kg (n = 15), 40 mg/kg (n = 18) and 50 mg/kg (n = 19), either alone (n = 21) or with hydroxyurea (n = 31). The most common drug-related adverse events were usually mild or moderate and reversible. Gastritis was graded as severe in three subjects at 40 mg/kg and was considered the dose-limiting toxicity. Subsequently all subjects were switched to the maximum tolerated dose of 30 mg/kg. Due to early discontinuations for blood transfusions, adverse events or non-compliance, only 25 subjects (48%) completed the study. Drug plasma concentrations were sustained above targeted levels at 30 mg/kg. Increases in fetal hemoglobin (Hb F) were observed in 42 subjects (80%), and 12 (23%) had increases 4%. The mean increase in Hb F was 2% [95% confidence interval (CI), 0.8-3.2%] in 21 subjects receiving HQK-1001 alone and 2.7% (95% CI, 1.7-3.8%) in 31 subjects receiving HQK-1001 plus hydroxyurea. Total hemoglobin increased by a mean of 0.65 g/dL (95% CI, 0.5-1.0 g/dL), and 13 subjects (25%) had increases 1 g/dL. Future studies are warranted to evaluate the therapeutic potential of HQK-1001 in sickle cell disease. .

UI  - 23677903
TI  - Association between baseline fetal hemoglobin levels and incidence of severe vaso-occlusive pain episodes in children with sickle cell anemia.
AB  - The ameliorating effect of high fetal hemoglobin (HbF) levels on the incidence of pain episodes in sickle cell anemia (SCA) is well-known; however, in children this relationship is less clearly established. We hypothesized that higher HbF levels in children with SCA are associated with fewer severe pain episodes. A meta-analysis of data from the Silent Infarct Transfusion Trial (n=456) and the Cooperative Study of Sickle Cell Disease (n=764), demonstrated that baseline HbF levels were associated with the incidence of severe pain, commonly defined across studies as an event requiring hospitalization (P-value=0.02).

UI  - 23645695
TI  - A randomized, placebo-controlled trial of arginine therapy for the treatment of children with sickle cell disease hospitalized with vaso-occlusive pain episodes.
AB  - Painful episodes of vaso-occlusion are the leading cause of hospitalizations and emergency department visits in sickle cell disease, and are associated with increased mortality. Low nitric oxide bioavailability contributes to vasculopathy in sickle cell disease. Since arginine is the obligate substrate for nitric oxide production, and an acute deficiency is associated with pain, we hypothesized that arginine may be a beneficial treatment for pain related to sickle cell disease. Thirty-eight children with sickle cell disease hospitalized for 56 episodes of pain were randomized into this double-blinded placebo-controlled trial. Patients received L-arginine (100 mg/kg tid) or placebo for 5 days or until discharge. A significant reduction in total parenteral opioid use by 54% (1.9  2.0 mg/kg versus 4.1  4.1 mg/kg, P=0.02) and lower pain scores at discharge (1.9  2.4 versus 3.9  2.9, P=0.01) were observed in the treatment arm compared to the placebo one. There was no significant difference in hospital length of stay (4.1  01.8 versus 4.8  2.5 days, P=0.34), although a trend favored the arginine arm, and total opioid use was strongly correlated with the duration of the admission (r=0.86, P<0.0001). No drug-related adverse events were observed. Arginine therapy represents a novel intervention for painful vaso-occlusive episodes. A reduction of narcotic use by >50% is remarkable. Arginine is a safe and inexpensive intervention with narcotic-sparing effects that may be a beneficial adjunct to standard therapy for sickle cell-related pain in children. A large multi-center trial is warranted in order to confirm these observations.

UI  - 23606168
TI  - Genetic modifiers of sickle cell anemia in the BABY HUG cohort: influence on laboratory and clinical phenotypes.
AB  - The recently completed BABY HUG trial investigated the safety and efficacy of hydroxyurea in infants with sickle cell anemia (SCA). To investigate the effects of known genetic modifiers, genomic DNA on 190 randomized subjects were analyzed for alpha thalassemia, beta-globin haplotype, polymorphisms affecting endogenous fetal hemoglobin (HbF) levels (XmnI, BCL11A, and HBS1L-MYB), UGT1A1 promoter polymorphisms, and the common G6PD A(-) mutation. At study entry, infants with alpha thalassemia trait had significantly lower mean corpuscular volume, total bilirubin, and absolute reticulocyte count. Beta-globin haplotypes associated with milder disease had significantly higher hemoglobin and %HbF. BCL11A and XmnI polymorphisms had significant effects on baseline HbF, while UGT1A1 promoter polymorphisms significantly influenced baseline serum bilirubin. At study exit, subjects randomized to placebo still exhibited laboratory effects of alpha thalassemia and other modifiers, while those assigned hydroxyurea had treatment effects that exceeded most genetic influences. The pain phenotype was influenced by HbF modifiers in both treatment groups. These data document that genetic polymorphisms do modify laboratory and clinical phenotypes even in very young patients with SCA. The hydroxyurea effects are more potent, however, indicating that treatment criteria should not be limited to certain genetic subsets, and supporting the use of hydroxyurea for all young patients with SCA.

UI  - 23590693
TI  - The effect of hydroxcarbamide therapy on survival of children with sickle cell disease.
AB  - Although evidence is accumulating that hydroxycarbamide decreases mortality among adults with sickle cell disease (SCD), there are no published data regarding the effect of hydroxycarbamide on mortality among children. The Paediatric Hydroxycarbamide Program was established to treat children with SCD aged 3-18years if they met disease severity criteria. Mortality data and clinical/laboratorial effects of hydroxycarbamide were retrospectively collected for the first 9years of the Program. Mortality among those who received hydroxycarbamide was compared to that of untreated children. Among 1760 subjects, 267 received hydroxycarbamide at a median dose of 208mg/kg/d (range 10-32) for a median of 2years (range 01-65). Survival among hydroxycarbamide-treated children was significantly greater than that among untreated ones (995% vs. 945%, P=001), due primarily to fewer deaths from acute chest syndrome and infection. Hydroxycarbamide therapy was significantly associated with increases in haemoglobin concentration, fetal haemoglobin, mean corpuscular volume, and reduction in platelet counts, reticulocytes and neutrophils. Toxicity was minimal and predominantly mild reversible neutropenia. Significantly fewer hospitalizations and emergency room visits, and shorter admissions were observed among hydroxycarbamide-treated subjects, when compared to the 12-month period prior to treatment initiation. Hydroxycarbamide therapy reduces disease severity and is probably associated with decreased mortality among children with SCD.

UI  - 23538327
TI  - Evaluation of H3 histone methylation and colony formation in erythroid progenitors treated with thalidomide and sodium butyrate.
AB  - Thalidomide shows superiority to sodium butyrate as a hypomethylating agent in this cell culture study, and it has the potential to become conventional treatment for sickle cell disease and -thalassemia.

UI  - 23489171
TI  - Optimizing Hydroxyurea use in children with sickle cell disease: low dose regimen is effective.
AB  - In SCD patients, low-dose regimen of HU is a feasible option that ensured safety and yet did not affect efficacy.

UI  - 23418000
TI  - Exploring barriers and facilitators to clinical trial enrollment in the context of sickle cell anemia and hydroxyurea.
AB  - Engagement of parents/guardians of children with SCD in identifying barriers and facilitators to clinical trial enrollment may be critical to the development of strategies to enhance SCD trial completion.

UI  - 23416852
TI  - Long-term outcome and evaluation of organ function in pediatric patients undergoing haploidentical and matched related hematopoietic cell transplantation for sickle cell disease.
AB  - HLA-matched related donor (MRD) hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) is a well-established therapy for patients with sickle cell disease (SCD); however, experience using alternative donors, including haploidentical donors, in HSCT for SCD is limited. We report the long-term outcomes of 22 pediatric patients who underwent related donor HSCT for SCD at St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, either a myeloablative sibling MRD HSCT (n= 14) or reduced-intensity parental haploidentical donor HSCT (n= 8). The median patient age was 11.0  3.9 years in the MRD graft recipients and 9.0  5.0 years in the haploidentical donor graft recipients. The median follow-up was 9.0  2.3 years, with an overall survival (OS) of 93% and a recurrence/graft failure rate of 0%, for the MRD cohort and 7.4  2.4 years, with an OS of 75%, disease-free survival of 38%, and disease recurrence of 38%, for the haploidentical donor cohort. We report the long-term hematologic response and organ function in patients undergoing MRD or haploidentical donor HSCT for severe SCD. Our data demonstrate long-term hematologic improvements after HSCT with sustained engraftment, and confirm that HSCT offers long-term protection from common complications of SCD, including stroke, pulmonary hypertension, acute chest, and nephropathy, regardless of donor source.

UI  - 23414938
TI  - A double-blind, randomized, multicenter phase 2 study of prasugrel versus placebo in adult patients with sickle cell disease.
AB  - Despite the small size and short duration of this study, there was a decrease in platelet activation biomarkers and a trend toward decreased pain.

UI  - 23409025
TI  - Candidate sequence variants and fetal hemoglobin in children with sickle cell disease treated with hydroxyurea.
AB  - These findings clarify the overlap between baseline and hydroxyurea-induced fetal hemoglobin levels in pediatric disease. Studies assessing influences of specific sequence variants in these and other genetic loci in larger populations and in unusual hydroxyurea responders are needed to further understand the maintenance and therapeutic induction of fetal hemoglobin in pediatric sickle cell disease.

UI  - 23377438
TI  - Sickle cell vaso-occlusion causes activation of iNKT cells that is decreased by the adenosine A2A receptor agonist regadenoson.
AB  - Adenosine A2A receptor (A2AR) agonists reduce invariant natural killer T (iNKT) cell activation and decrease inflammation in sickle cell disease (SCD) mice. We conducted a phase 1 trial of the A2AR agonist regadenoson in adults with SCD. The target dose was 1.44 g/kg/h. iNKT cell activation was evaluated using antibodies targeting the p65 subunit of nuclear factor-B (phospho-NF-B p65), interferon- (IFN-), and A2AR. Regadenoson was administered to 27 adults with SCD. We examined 21 patients at steady state and 6 during painful vaso-occlusive crises (pVOC). iNKT cell activation was also measured in 14 African-American controls. During pVOC, the fraction of iNKT cells demonstrating increased phospho-NF-B p65 and A2AR expression was significantly higher compared with controls (P < .01) and steady-state patients (P < .05). IFN- expression was also significantly higher compared with controls (P = .02). After a 24-hour infusion of regadenoson during pVOC, phospho-NF-B p65 activation in iNKT cells decreased compared to baseline by a median of 48% (P = .03) to levels similar to controls and steady-state SCD. No toxicities were identified. Infusional regadenoson administered to adults with SCD at 1.44 g/kg/h during pVOC decreases activation of iNKT cells without toxicity.

UI  - 23342819
TI  - Sickle cell disease patients' perceptions of emergency department pain management.
AB  - Patients with sickle cell disease (SCD) experience painful crises that often require admission to the emergency department (ED) for pain management. Factors such as ED overcrowding and negative perception and stigmatization of SCD may impact patients' perceptions of the quality of pain management in the ED. Data from a multisite prospective cohort study was assessed to determine whether demographic (age and sex), clinical (time to administration of initial analgesia, number of analgesic doses, discharge disposition, and clinical site), or interpersonal factors (separately measured perceptions of being treated with trust and respect by ED triage nurses, nurses, and physicians) were associated with patient ratings of their pain management in the ED. Patients were adults with SCD seen at 3 EDs (2 urban and 1 rural). Demographic and clinical information was derived from medical record review; interpersonal and ED pain management ratings were derived from interviews conducted 1 week post ED visit. A total of 209 interviews by 98 patients were analyzed. Results indicated significant differences among the ED sites on the demographic, clinical, and interpersonal factors. Overall, patients reported being treated with trust and respect by ED clinicians. Adjusted logistic regression analyses indicated that ED clinical site 1 (odds ratio [OR], 10.42; 95% confidence interval [Cl], 1.44-7.36) and being treated with trust and respect by the ED physician (OR, 25.53; 95% CI, 2.07-314.96) predicted good ED pain management ratings. Interpersonal health care experiences may be an important indicator of patient satisfaction and quality of care received by patients with SCD in the ED.

UI  - 23303999
TI  - Sickle cell disease (SCD), iNKT cells, and regadenoson infusion.
AB  - A humanized murine sickle cell-disease (SCD) model (NY1DD) has been used to study ischemia/reperfusion injury (IRI) in sickle cell anemia, and iNKT cells (a very small subset of murine and human T cells) have been found to instigate such injury in this model. Furthermore, levels of activated iNKT cells are generally elevated in the circulation of patients with SCD. Because activated iNKT cells are rich in adenosine A2A receptors which, when agonized, down-regulate the inflammatory cytokine expression that characterizes the cells, we have conducted a phase 1 trial of a constant infusion of low-dose regadenoson (an adenosine analogue with high A2A receptor specificity) to determine its safety and the capacity of a safe dose to down-regulate circulating iNKT cells in patients with SCD. We have found two dose rates that are both safe and effective and now plan a controlled Phase 2B clinical trial to determine whether our highest dose, administered as a 48-hour constant infusion, will induce faster remission in both painful vaso-occlusive crisis (pVOC) and acute chest syndrome (ACS).

UI  - 23296434
TI  - Developmental function in toddlers with sickle cell anemia.
AB  - Whereas overall functioning was in the normal range, behavioral and adaptive function was poorer with older age, even in this very young group of children. Explanatory mechanisms for this association between poorer developmental function and older age need to be identified.

UI  - 23278176
TI  - Antioxidant vitamins C and E supplementation increases markers of haemolysis in sickle cell anaemia patients: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - Erythrocytes from sickle cell anaemia (SCA) patients continuously produce larger amounts of pro-oxidants than normal cells. Oxidative stress seems to primarily affect the membrane and results in haemolysis. The use of antioxidants in vitro reduces the generation of pro-oxidants. To evaluate the impact of vitamins C (VitC) and E (VitE) supplementation in SCA patients, patients over 18 years were randomly assigned to receive VitC 1400 mg + VitE 800 mg per day or placebo orally for 180 d. Eighty-three patients were enrolled (44 vitamins, 39 placebo), median age 27 (18-68) years, 64% female. There were no significant differences between the two groups regarding clinical complications or baseline laboratorial tests. Sixty percent of the patients were VitC deficient, 70% were VitE deficient. Supplementation significantly increased serum VitC and E. However, no significant changes in haemoglobin levels were observed, and, unexpectedly, there was a significant increase in haemolytic markers with vitamin supplementation. In conclusion, VitC + VitE supplementation did not improve anaemia and, surprisingly, increased markers of haemolysis in patients with SCA and S-(0) -thalassaemia. The exact mechanisms to explain this findings and their clinical significance remain to be determined.

UI  - 23255310
TI  - Hydroxyurea treatment decreases glomerular hyperfiltration in children with sickle cell anemia.
AB  - Glomerular hyperfiltration and microalbuminuria/proteinuria are early manifestations of sickle nephropathy. The effects of hydroxyurea therapy on these renal manifestations of sickle cell anemia (SCA) are not well defined. Our objective was to investigate the effects of hydroxyurea on glomerular filtration rate (GFR) measured by (99m)Tc-DTPA clearance, and on microalbuminuria/proteinuria in children with SCA. Hydroxyurea study of long-term effects (HUSTLE) is a prospective study (NCT00305175) with the goal of describing the long-term cellular, molecular, and clinical effects of hydroxyurea therapy in SCA. Glomerular filtration rate, urine microalbumin, and serum cystatin C were measured before initiating hydroxyurea therapy and then repeated after 3 years. Baseline and Year 3 values for HUSTLE subjects were compared using the Wilcoxon Signed Rank test. Associations between continuous variables were evaluated using Spearman correlation coefficient. Twenty-three children with SCA (median age 7.5 years, range, 2.5-14.0 years) received hydroxyurea at maximum tolerated dose (MTD, 24.4  4.5 mg/kg/day, range, 15.3-30.6 mg/kg/day). After 3 years of treatment, GFR measured by (99m)Tc-DTPA decreased significantly from 167  46 mL/min/1.73 m to 145  27 mL/min/1.73 m (P = 0.016). This decrease in GFR was significantly associated with increase in fetal hemoglobin (P = 0.042) and decrease in lactate dehydrogenase levels (P = 0.035). Urine microalbumin and cystatin C levels did not change significantly. Hydroxyurea at MTD is associated with a decrease in hyperfiltration in young children with SCA.

UI  - 23253664
TI  - Effect of propranolol as antiadhesive therapy in sickle cell disease.
AB  - Sickle red blood cells (SSRBCs) adhere to both endothelial cells (ECs) and the extracellular matrix. Epinephrine elevates cyclic adenosine monophosphate in SSRBCs and increases adhesion of SSRBCs to ECs in a -adrenergic receptor and protein kinase A-dependent manner. Studies in vitro as well as in vivo have suggested that adrenergic stimuli like epinephrine may contribute to vaso-occlusion associated with physiologic stress. We conducted both animal studies and a Phase I dose-escalation study in sickle cell disease (SCD) patients to investigate whether systemically administered propranolol inhibits SSRBC adhesion and to document the safety of propranolol in SCD. Systemically administered propranolol prevented SSRBC adhesion and associated vaso-occlusion in a mouse model. In patients receiving a single oral dose of 10, 20, or 40 mg propranolol, SSRBC adhesion to ECs was studied before and after propranolol, with and without stimulation with epinephrine. Propranolol administration significantly reduced epinephrine-stimulated SSRBC adhesion in a dose dependent manner (p = 0.03), with maximum inhibition achieved at 40 mg. Adverse events were not severe, did not show dose dependence, and were likely unrelated to drug. No significant heart rate changes occurred. These results imply that -blockers may have a role as antiadhesive therapy for SCD.

UI  - 23193009
TI  - Effect of omega-3 (n-3) fatty acid supplementation in patients with sickle cell anemia: randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - The findings of this trial, which need to be verified in a large multicenter study, suggest that omega-3 fatty acids can be an effective, safe, and affordable therapy for sickle cell anemia. This trial was registered with Current Controlled Trials as ISRCTN80844630.

UI  - 23171128
TI  - A phase 1 study of prasugrel in patients with sickle cell disease: pharmacokinetics and effects on ex vivo platelet reactivity.
AB  - Results demonstrate that in response to prasugrel, patients with SCD and healthy subjects have similar degrees of platelet inhibition and exposure to Pras-AM, and provide a basis for further study of prasugrel in patients with SCD.

UI  - 23123915
TI  - Comparison of hematologic measurements between local and central laboratories: data from the BABY HUG trial.
AB  - Overnight shipping with processing delay causes spurious reductions in absolute neutrophil count (ANC) and absolute monocyte count (AMC) that may result in incorrect monitoring decisions in multicenter clinical trials.

UI  - 22924607
TI  - High dose vitamin D therapy for chronic pain in children and adolescents with sickle cell disease: results of a randomized double blind pilot study.
AB  - We report results of a pilot study of high-dose vitamin D in sickle cell disease (SCD). Subjects were given a 6-week course of oral high-dose cholecalciferol (4000-100000 IU per week) or placebo and monitored prospectively for a period of six months. Vitamin D insufficiency and deficiency was present at baseline in 825% and 525% of subjects, respectively. Subjects who received high-dose vitamin D achieved higher serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D, experienced fewer pain days per week, and had higher physical activity quality-of-life scores. These findings suggest a potential benefit of vitamin D in reducing the number of pain days in SCD. Larger prospective studies with longer duration are needed to confirm these effects.

UI  - 22915643
TI  - Impact of hydroxyurea on clinical events in the BABY HUG trial.
AB  - The Pediatric Hydroxyurea Phase 3 Clinical Trial (BABY HUG) was a phase 3 multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial of hydroxyurea in infants (beginning at 9-18 months of age) with sickle cell anemia. An important secondary objective of this study was to compare clinical events between the hydroxyurea and placebo groups. One hundred and ninety-three subjects were randomized to hydroxyurea (20 mg/kg/d) or placebo; there were 374 patient-years of on-study observation. Hydroxyurea was associated with statistically significantly lower rates of initial and recurrent episodes of pain, dactylitis, acute chest syndrome, and hospitalization; even infants who were asymptomatic at enrollment had less dactylitis as well as fewer hospitalizations and transfusions if treated with hydroxyurea. Despite expected mild myelosuppression, hydroxyurea was not associated with an increased risk of bacteremia or serious infection. These data provide important safety and efficacy information for clinicians considering hydroxyurea therapy for very young children with sickle cell anemia. This clinical trial is registered with the National Institutes of Health (NCT00006400, www.clinicaltrials.gov).

UI  - 22887019
TI  - A phase 1/2 trial of HQK-1001, an oral fetal globin inducer, in sickle cell disease.
AB  - Therapeutics which reduce the pathology in sickle cell syndromes are needed, particularly noncytotoxic therapeutics. Fetal hemoglobin (HbF, (2) (2) ) is established as a major regulator of disease severity; increased HbF levels correlate with milder clinical courses and improved survival. Accordingly, sodium dimethylbutyrate (HQK-1001), an orally-bioavailable, promoter-targeted fetal globin gene-inducing agent, was evaluated in a randomized, blinded, dose-ranging Phase I/II trial in 24 adult patients with HbSS or S/ thalassemia, to determine safety and tolerability of three escalating dose levels. The study therapeutic was administered once daily for two 6-week cycles, with a two-week interim dose holiday. Twenty-one patients completed the study. Five patients received study drug at 10 or 20 mg/kg doses, seven patients received study drug at 30 mg/kg/dose, and 4 patients received placebo. HQK-1001 was well-tolerated with no unexpected drug-related adverse events; a dose-limiting toxicity was not identified. Plasma drug levels were sustained above targeted levels for 24 hr. Increases in HbF above baseline were observed particularly with 30 mg/kg/day doses; in five of seven treated patients, a mean absolute increase in HbF of 0.2 g/dl and a mean increase in total hemoglobin (Hgb) of 0.83 g/dl above baseline were observed, whereas no increases occurred in placebo-treated controls. These findings of favorable PK profiles, tolerability, early rises in HbF, and total Hgb indicate that trials of longer duration appear warranted to more definitively evaluate the therapeutic potential of HQK-1001 in sickle cell disease.

UI  - 22760067
TI  - Two-year analysis of efficacy and safety of deferasirox treatment for transfusional iron overload in sickle cell anemia patients.
AB  - The efficacy and safety of a 2-year treatment with deferasirox was evaluated in 31 patients with sickle cell anemia and transfusional iron overload. At 24 months, there were significant decreases from baseline in mean serum ferritin (from 2,344.6 to 1,986.3 g/l; p = 0.040) and in mean liver iron concentration (from 13.0  5.4 to 9.3  5.7 mg Fe/g dry weight; p < 0.001). Myocardial T2* values were normal (>20 ms) in all patients at baseline and did not change significantly over the course of the study. However, there was a significant improvement from baseline in left ventricular ejection fraction at 24 months (62.2-64.6%; p = 0.02). Deferasirox was generally well tolerated with no progressive increases in serum creatinine or renal failure observed. These data confirm that deferasirox is effective in reducing body iron burden in patients with sickle cell anemia and transfusional iron overload.

UI  - 22734586
TI  - Low fixed-dose hydroxyurea in severely affected Indian children with sickle cell disease.
AB  - There is limited data on the efficacy of hydroxyurea (HU) in Indian sickle cell anemia patients who have severe manifestations despite high fetal hemoglobin (Hb F). Sixty sickle cell anemia children (5-18 years) with more than three episodes of vasoocclusive crises or blood transfusions per year were randomized to receive HU (n = 30) or placebo (n = 30) therapy. Fixed dose (10 mg/kg/day) of HU was administered for 18 months and the patients were followed-up monthly with clinical assessment and laboratory monitoring. In the HU group, hemoglobin (Hb) and Hb F levels increased significantly along with a significant decrease in the number of painful crises, blood transfusion requirements and hospitalizations compared to the placebo group. No major adverse events were observed in this study. In conclusion, low-fixed dose HU therapy was effective for the treatment of Indian sickle cell anemia children. However, there is a need for long-term studies to evaluate the efficacy and toxicity in a larger number of Indian sickle cell anemia patients.

UI  - 22647439
TI  - Intranasal fentanyl versus intravenous morphine in the emergency department treatment of severe painful sickle cell crises in children: study protocol for a randomised controlled trial.
AB  - Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN67469672 and EudraCT no. 2011-005161-20.

UI  - 22488107
TI  - A potent oral P-selectin blocking agent improves microcirculatory blood flow and a marker of endothelial cell injury in patients with sickle cell disease.
AB  - Abnormal blood flow accounts for most of the clinical morbidity of sickle cell disease (SCD) [1,2]. Most notably, occlusion of flow in the microvasculature causes the acute pain crises [3] that are the commonest cause for patients with SCD to seek medical attention [4] and major determinants of their quality of life [5]. Based on evidence that endothelial P-selectin is central to the abnormal blood flow in SCD we provide results from four of our studies that are germane to microvascular blood flow in SCD. A proof-of-principle study established that doses of heparin lower than what are used for anticoagulation but sufficient to block P-selectin improved microvascular blood flow inpatients with SCD. An in vitro study showed that Pentosan Polysulfate Sodium (PPS) had greater P-selectin blocking activity than heparin. A Phase I clinical study demonstrated that a single oral dose of PPS increased microvascular blood flow in patients with SCD. A Phase II clinical study that was not completed documented that daily oral doses of PPS administered for 8 weeks lowered plasma levels of sVCAM-1 and tended to improve microvascular blood flow in patients with SCD. These data support the concept that P-selectin on the microvascular endothelium is critical to both acute vascular occlusion and chronically impaired microvascular blood flow in SCD. They also demonstrate that oral PPS is beneficial to microvascular sickle cell blood flow and has potential as an efficacious agent for long-term prophylactic therapy of SCD.

UI  - 22360576
TI  - Hydroxycarbamide alters erythroid gene expression in children with sickle cell anaemia.
AB  - Sickle cell anaemia (SCA) is a severe debilitating haematological disorder associated with a high degree of morbidity and mortality. The level of fetal haemoglobin (HbF) is well-recognized as a critical laboratory parameter: lower HbF is associated with a higher risk of vaso-occlusive complications, organ damage, and early death. Hydroxycarbamide treatment can induce HbF, improve laboratory parameters, and ameliorate clinical complications of SCA but its mechanisms of action remain incompletely defined and the HbF response is highly variable. To identify pathways of hydroxycarbamide activity, we performed microarray expression analyses of early reticulocyte RNA obtained from children with SCA enrolled in the HydroxyUrea Study of Long-term Effects (NCT00305175) and examined the effects of hydroxycarbamide exposure in vivo. Hydroxycarbamide affected a large number of erythroid genes, with significant decreases in the expression of genes involved in translation, ribosome assembly and chromosome organization, presumably reflecting the daily cytotoxic pulses of hydroxycarbamide. Hydroxycarbamide also affected expression of numerous genes associated with HbF including BCL11A, a key regulator of baseline HbF levels. Together, these data indicate that hydroxycarbamide treatment for SCA leads to substantial changes in erythroid gene expression, including BCL11A and other potential signalling pathways associated with HbF induction.

UI  - 22343483
TI  - Ameliorating attention problems in children with sickle cell disease: a pilot study of methylphenidate.
AB  - Stimulant medication positively impacted select measures of memory and inhibitory control in some children with SCD. Attention, as rated by parent and teachers, was improved for a greater number of children and adolescents on higher doses of MPH relative to LD MPH and placebo. Stimulant medication may provide an effective intervention for some children with SCD and cerebrovascular complications who demonstrate attention problems.

UI  - 22318468
TI  - N-acetylcysteine reduces oxidative stress in sickle cell patients.
AB  - Oxidative stress is of importance in the pathophysiology of sickle cell disease (SCD). In this open label randomized pilot study the effects of oral N-acetylcysteine (NAC) on phosphatidylserine (PS) expression as marker of cellular oxidative damage (primary end point), and markers of hemolysis, coagulation and endothelial activation and NAC tolerability (secondary end points) were studied. Eleven consecutive patients (ten homozygous [HbSS] sickle cell patients, one HbS(0)-thalassemia patient) were randomly assigned to treatment with either 1,200 or 2,400 mg NAC daily during 6 weeks. The data indicate an increment in whole blood glutathione levels and a decrease in erythrocyte outer membrane phosphatidylserine exposure, plasma levels of advanced glycation end-products (AGEs) and cell-free hemoglobin after 6 weeks of NAC treatment in both dose groups. One patient did not tolerate the 2,400 mg dose and continued with the 1,200 mg dose. During the study period, none of the patients experienced painful crises or other significant SCD or NAC related complications. These data indicate that N-acetylcysteine treatment of sickle cell patients may reduce SCD related oxidative stress.

UI  - 22294512
TI  - Effect of hydroxyurea treatment on renal function parameters: results from the multi-center placebo-controlled BABY HUG clinical trial for infants with sickle cell anemia.
AB  - Treatment with hydroxyurea for 24 months did not influence GFR in young children with SCA. However, hydroxyurea was associated with better urine concentrating ability and less renal enlargement, suggesting some benefit to renal function.

UI  - 22231377
TI  - Chronic transfusion practices for prevention of primary stroke in children with sickle cell anemia and abnormal TCD velocities.
AB  - 

UI  - 22190441
TI  - Influence of severity of anemia on clinical findings in infants with sickle cell anemia: analyses from the BABY HUG study.
AB  - Infants with more severe anemia are at risk for increased clinical events that may be prevented by early initiation of hydroxyurea.

UI  - 22082280
TI  - Effects of co-existing -thalassaemia in sickle cell disease on hydroxycarbamide therapy and circulating nucleic acids.
AB  - 

UI  - 22012708
TI  - Genotoxicity associated with hydroxyurea exposure in infants with sickle cell anemia: results from the BABY-HUG Phase III Clinical Trial.
AB  - These data provide additional support to the safety profile of hydroxyurea for young patients with SCA, and suggest that genotoxicity in this patient population is low.

UI  - 21921042
TI  - Epigenetic and molecular profiles of erythroid cells after hydroxyurea treatment in sickle cell anemia.
AB  - Hydroxyurea has been shown to be efficacious for the treatment of sickle cell anemia (SCA), primarily through the induction of fetal hemoglobin (HbF). However, the exact mechanisms by which hydroxyurea can induce HbF remain incompletely defined, although direct transcriptional effects and altered cell cycle kinetics have been proposed. In this study, we investigated potential epigenetic and alternative molecular mechanisms of hydroxyurea-mediated HbF induction by examining methylation patterns within the (G)-globin promoter and miRNA expression within primary CD71(+) erythrocytes of patients with SCA, both at baseline before beginning hydroxyurea therapy and after reaching maximum tolerated dose (MTD). Using both cross-sectional analysis and paired-sample analysis, we found that the highly methylated (G)-globin promoter was inversely correlated to baseline HbF levels, but only slightly altered by hydroxyurea treatment. Conversely, expression of several specific miRNAs was significantly increased after hydroxyurea treatment, and expression of miR-26b and miR-151-3p were both associated with HbF levels at MTD. The significant associations identified in these studies suggest that methylation may be important for regulation of baseline HbF, but not after hydroxyurea treatment, whereas changes in miRNA expression may be associated with hydroxyurea-mediated HbF induction. This study was registered at ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT00305175).

UI  - 21885600
TI  - Cervical carotid artery disease in sickle cell anemia: clinical and radiological features.
AB  - Cervical internal carotid artery (cICA) occlusion is a recognized cause of acute ischemic stroke (AIS) in sickle cell disease (SCD), but the associated clinical and radiologic features are not well described. We reviewed data on cervical magnetic resonance angiography (cMRA) performed prospectively in 67 patients (55 children) for indications including transcranial Doppler (TCD) abnormalities, AIS, or previous AIS. cICA lesions were seen in 10 (15%) patients, including 4 of 7 patients presenting with AIS, and appear to have been missed on first presentation in 4 of 10 patients with previous AIS. Radiologic features in 7 patients were consistent with dissection. In 2 patients, there was strong clinical and radiologic evidence for thromboembolic AIS, and this was also considered possible in 4 other patients. Three of the 4 AIS patients were anticoagulated acutely, and the nontreated patient had recurrent, probably thromboembolic, AIS. TCD findings were variable, but in 4 patients there were high velocities in the cerebral vessels contralateral to the cICA stenosis. We suggest that all patients with AIS should have cMRA during acute evaluation to identify cICA occlusions that may require anticoagulation. Routine screening of children with SCD should also include evaluation of neck vessels by carotid Doppler followed by cMRA if a cervical vascular lesion is suspected.

UI  - 21876119
TI  - Pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, and pharmacogenetics of hydroxyurea treatment for children with sickle cell anemia.
AB  - Hydroxyurea therapy has proven laboratory and clinical efficacies for children with sickle cell anemia (SCA). When administered at maximum tolerated dose (MTD), hydroxyurea increases fetal hemoglobin (HbF) to levels ranging from 10% to 40%. However, interpatient variability of percentage of HbF (%HbF) response is high, MTD itself is variable, and accurate predictors of hydroxyurea responses do not currently exist. HUSTLE (NCT00305175) was designed to provide first-dose pharmacokinetics (PK) data for children with SCA initiating hydroxyurea therapy, to investigate pharmacodynamics (PD) parameters, including HbF response and MTD after standardized dose escalation, and to evaluate pharmacogenetics influences on PK and PD parameters. For 87 children with first-dose PK studies, substantial interpatient variability was observed, plus a novel oral absorption phenotype (rapid or slow) that influenced serum hydroxyurea levels and total hydroxyurea exposure. PD responses in 174 subjects were robust and similar to previous cohorts; %HbF at MTD was best predicted by 5 variables, including baseline %HbF, whereas MTD was best predicted by 5 variables, including serum creatinine. Pharmacogenetics analysis showed single nucleotide polymorphisms influencing baseline %HbF, including 5 within BCL11A, but none influencing MTD %HbF or dose. Accurate prediction of hydroxyurea treatment responses for SCA remains a worthy but elusive goal.

UI  - 21849972
TI  - Variant hemoglobin phenotypes may account for differential erythropoiesis-stimulating agent dosing in African-American hemodialysis patients.
AB  - African-American patients with end-stage renal disease have historically lower hemoglobin concentrations and higher requirements of erythropoiesis-stimulating agent (ESA). While disparities in health-care access may partially explain these findings, the role of variant hemoglobin, such as sickle trait, has not been investigated. To clarify this, we evaluated 154 African-American patients receiving in-center hemodialysis with available hemoglobin phenotyping. The primary exposure was any abnormal hemoglobin variant and the primary outcome of higher-dose ESA was defined as a dose of 6500 or more units per treatment. Logistic regression assessed the association between variant hemoglobin and higher-dose ESA. Covariates included age, gender, diabetes, iron parameters, intravenous iron dose, parathyroid hormone, albumin, phosphorus, body mass index, vascular access type, hospitalization/missed treatments, smoking status, alcohol abuse, and gastrointestinal bleeding. Of 33 patients with variant hemoglobin, 24 had HbAS and 9 had HbAC. Univariate odds of higher-dose ESA among those with hemoglobin variants were twice that of those with the normal HbAA phenotype (odds ratio 2.05). In multivariate models, the likelihood of higher-dose ESA had an odds ratio of 3.31 and the nature of this relationship did not change in Poisson regression or sensitivity analyses. Hence, our findings may explain, in part, the difference in ESA dosing between Caucasians and African-Americans with end-stage renal disease but await further study.

UI  - 21848879
TI  - Tapered oral dexamethasone for the acute chest syndrome of sickle cell disease.
AB  - Tapered oral dexamethasone for acute chest syndrome (ACS) in sickle cell anaemia was studied using a novel ACS assessment tool and investigational biomarkers. Twelve participants were randomized (mean age 173 years) before early study termination. Dexamethasone decreased duration of hospitalization for ACS by 208 h compared to placebo (P = 0024). Rebound pain occurred in both groups (3 dexamethasone versus 1 placebo). Overall, dexamethasone decreased the leucocyte activation biomarker, sL-selectin; however, participants with rebound pain had higher sL-selectin within 24 h of treatment (dexamethasone or placebo). This ACS assessment tool was feasibly applied, and sL-selectin is a promising biomarker of ACS therapy.

UI  - 21750084
TI  - Frequency of pain crises in sickle cell anemia and its relationship with the sympatho-vagal balance, blood viscosity and inflammation.
AB  - Results from the present study indicate that both the autonomic nervous system activity and blood viscosity are impaired in patients with sickle cell anemia exhibiting high frequency of pain crisis in comparison with those who did not experience a crisis within the previous year.

UI  - 21744485
TI  - Massive accidental overdose of hydroxyurea in a young child with sickle cell anemia.
AB  - The Pediatric Hydroxyurea Phase III Clinical Trial (BABY HUG) confirmed safety and efficacy of hydroxyurea therapy for infants with sickle cell anemia. Treatment was associated with reduction in rates of pain, acute chest syndrome, hospitalizations, and blood transfusions; improved hematologic values; and, perhaps, preservation of organ function. During the study, a 2-year-old ingested at one time an entire 35-day supply of hydroxyurea (612 mg/kg body weight). Despite a serum level of 7,756 M 4 hours post-ingestion, the only toxicity was transient mild myelosuppression. With wider usage of hydroxyurea anticipated, conservative management of future overdoses seems reasonable (ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00006400).

UI  - 21619673
TI  - Population pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of hydroxyurea in sickle cell anemia patients, a basis for optimizing the dosing regimen.
AB  - The clinical studies whose data are analysed and reported in this work were not required to be registered in France at their time. Both studies were approved by local ethics committees (of Mondor Hospital and of Kremlin-Bicetre Hospital) and written informed consent was obtained from each patient.

UI  - 21606305
TI  - Abdominal ultrasound with scintigraphic and clinical correlates in infants with sickle cell anemia: baseline data from the BABY HUG trial.
AB  - In infants with sickle cell anemia, sonographic spleen volume does not reflect function, but increased renal volume correlates with GFR and is consistent with hyperfiltration. Sonographic biliary abnormalities can occur early in life, while remaining clinically silent.

UI  - 21571150
TI  - Hydroxycarbamide in very young children with sickle-cell anaemia: a multicentre, randomised, controlled trial (BABY HUG).
AB  - The US National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute; and the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development.

UI  - 21527519
TI  - Hospitalization for pain in patients with sickle cell disease treated with sildenafil for elevated TRV and low exercise capacity.
AB  - In adults with sickle cell disease (SCD), an increased tricuspid regurgitation velocity (TRV) by Doppler echocardiography is associated with increased morbidity and mortality. Although sildenafil has been shown to improve exercise capacity in patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension, it has not been evaluated in SCD. We therefore sought to determine whether sildenafil could improve exercise capacity in SCD patients with increased TRV and a low exercise capacity. A TRV  2.7 m/s and a 6-minute walk distance (6MWD) between 150 and 500 m were required for enrollment in this 16-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled sildenafil trial. After 74 of the screened subjects were randomized, the study was stopped early due to a higher percentage of subjects experiencing serious adverse events in the sildenafil arm (45% of sildenafil, 22% of placebo, P = .022). Subject hospitalization for pain was the predominant cause for this difference: 35% with sildenafil compared with 14% with placebo (P = .029). There was no evidence of a treatment effect on 6MWD (placebo-corrected effect -9 m; 95% confidence interval [95% CI] -56-38; P = .703), TRV (P = .503), or N-terminal pro-brain natriuretic peptide (P = .410). Sildenafil appeared to increase hospitalization rates for pain in patients with SCD. This study is registered at www.clinicaltrials.gov as NCT00492531.

UI  - 21481164
TI  - The association between hydroxyurea treatment and pain intensity, analgesic use, and utilization in ambulatory sickle cell anemia patients.
AB  - Hydroxyurea usage led to a small, statistically significant reduction in daily pain, analgesic use, and utilization in adults in MSH, corroborating previously shown larger reductions in crises and mortality. The degree of daily symptomatic reduction was related to the size of the HbF treatment response, further confirming HbF response as a useful laboratory correlate.

UI  - 21477202
TI  - A pilot study of the short-term use of simvastatin in sickle cell disease: effects on markers of vascular dysfunction.
AB  - Sickle cell disease (SCD) is characterized by progressive vascular injury and its pathophysiology is strikingly similar to that of atherosclerosis. Statins decrease inflammation and improve endothelial function in cardiovascular disease, but their effect in SCD is not known. In this pilot study, we examined the safety and effect of short-term simvastatin on biomarkers of vascular dysfunction in SCD. We treated 26 SCD patients with simvastatin, 20 or 40 mg/d, for 21 d. Plasma nitric oxide metabolites (NOx), C-reactive protein (CRP), interleukin-6 (IL-6), vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1), tissue factor (TF) and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) were analyzed and responses to simvastatin were compared between the two treatment groups. Simvastatin increased NOx levels by 23% in the low-dose (P =001) and 106% in the moderate-dose (P =001) groups, and by 52% overall (P=00008). CRP decreased similarly in both dose groups and by 68% overall (P =002). Levels of IL-6 decreased by 50% (P=004) and 71% (P<005) in the low- and moderate-dose groups, respectively. Simvastatin had no effect on VEGF, VCAM1 or TF. Simvastatin was well-tolerated and safe. Our preliminary findings showing a dose-related effect of simvastatin on levels of NOx, CRP and IL-6 suggest a potential therapeutic role for simvastatin in SCD.

UI  - 21370420
TI  - Safety of short-term valacyclovir as an anti-sickling agent in sickle-cell anemia.
AB  - To assess safety and tolerability, we administered valacyclovir, an oral anti-viral medication that inhibits erythrocyte sickling in vitro, to 14 subjects with sickle-cell anemia for 1 week at a standard dose of 1,000 mg every 8 hr. No clinically significant adverse effects occurred. In 11 subjects in steady state, the mean hemoglobin concentration was almost constant while the absolute reticulocyte count decreased in eight (P = 0.1) and the overall mean fell slightly although not significantly (10%, P = 0.2). These results suggest that valacyclovir is safe and well tolerated in patients with sickle-cell anemia and that a longer duration of therapy merits investigation.

UI  - 21323872
TI  - Improvements in haemolysis and indicators of erythrocyte survival do not correlate with acute vaso-occlusive crises in patients with sickle cell disease: a phase III randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind study of the Gardos channel blocker senicapoc (ICA-17043).
AB  - Red blood cell (RBC) hydration is regulated in part by the Ca(2+) -activated K(+) efflux (Gardos) channel. Senicapoc selectively blocks potassium efflux through the Gardos channel, reducing RBC dehydration and haemolysis, and increasing haemoglobin levels in sickle cell disease (SCD). This randomized, placebo-controlled trial was designed to determine the safety and clinical efficacy of senicapoc in SCD patients. One hundred and forty-five patients were randomized to receive senicapoc and 144 patients to receive placebo for 52 weeks. Consistent with a previous study, patients in the senicapoc group had significantly increased haematocrit, haemoglobin, and decreased numbers of both dense erythrocytes and reticulocytes when compared to the placebo group. The unblinded Data Monitoring Committee terminated this study early due to a lack of efficacy when it determined that, despite improvements in anaemia and haemolysis, no significant improvement in the rate of sickle cell painful crises was observed in patients treated with senicapoc compared to those on placebo (038 vs. 031, respectively). Comparisons of the times to first, second and third crises between the senicapoc and placebo groups were not statistically significant. Nausea and urinary tract infections occurred more frequently in the senicapoc group than placebo. Serious adverse events were similar in the two groups.

UI  - 21275961
TI  - The effects of hydroxycarbamide and magnesium on haemoglobin SC disease: results of the multi-centre CHAMPS trial.
AB  - In a phase-II multi-centre double-blinded trial, we evaluated haematological effects of oral hydroxycarbamide (HC) and magnesium (Mg) in patients with HbSC, aged 5-53 years old. Subjects were randomized to HC + placebo, Mg + placebo, HC + Mg, or placebo + placebo. The primary endpoint was the proportion of hyperdense red blood cells after 8 weeks. Thirty-six subjects were evaluable, but the study was terminated early because of slow enrollment. In the combined HC groups, mean cell volume and HbF were increased, but differences were not seen in hyperdense red cells or vaso-occlusive events. Mg had no effects. Further investigation of hydroxycarbamide as monotherapy in HbSC disease is warranted.

UI  - 21141286
TI  - The impact of hydroxyurea on career and employment of patients with sickle cell anemia.
AB  - The purpose of this study was to determine the association between hydroxyurea treatment and changes in employment status, if any, among patients with sickle cell anemia enrolled in the Multicenter Study of Hydroxyurea in Sickle Cell Anemia (MSH). To that end, we compared the employment status among treatment responders, treatment nonresponders, and placebo groups of patients enrolled in MSH during the clinical trial and follow-up periods. Treatment with hydroxyurea did not significantly (p > .05) affect employment status, but there was a trend for more consistent employment in the hydroxyurea group. Given the fact that patients enrolled in MSH had moderate to severe disease with irreversible complications such as avascular necrosis, if would be attractive to hypothesize that future treatment of young patients with hydroxyurea could prevent or mitigate the incidence of complications of sickle cell anemia and, hence, improve the employment status of treated patients.

UI  - 20864308
TI  - Hydroxyurea and acute painful crises in sickle cell anemia: effects on hospital length of stay and opioid utilization during hospitalization, outpatient acute care contacts, and at home.
AB  - Beneficial effects of HU include shortening the duration of hospitalization because of acute painful episodes and reducing the net amount of opioid utilization.

UI  - 20854115
TI  - Early detection of response to hydroxyurea therapy in patients with sickle cell anemia.
AB  - Red blood cells (RBC) and reticulocyte parameters were determined on peripheral blood from a subset of patients enrolled in the multicenter study of hydroxyuea (HU) in sickle cell anemia. Multiple blood samples were obtained every 2 weeks. Cellular indices were measured by flow cytometry. Generalized linear models were used to determine the relationship between the longitudinal trajectories of RBC and reticulocyte indices and HU usage. There was a significant relationship between HU usage and most of the RBC and reticulocyte indices. Hydroxyurea produced higher value trajectories than those generated by placebo usage for the hemoglobin (Hb) content of both the RBCs and reticulocytes and for the mean corpuscular volume (MCV) of reticulocytes. These changes were first detected 10 weeks after starting HU and before the increase in Hb F levels. The data suggest that subtle and early markers of response to HU reside in the hemogram.

UI  - 20797449
TI  - Recruitment of infants with sickle cell anemia to a Phase III trial: data from the BABY HUG study.
AB  - Large, demanding clinical trials require an adequate pool of potential participants. Approaching all potentially eligible patients without predetermined biases enhances success in recruitment.

UI  - 20724949
TI  - Effect of oral arginine supplementation on exhaled nitric oxide concentration in sickle cell anemia and acute chest syndrome.
AB  - In contrast to our earlier study, ACS+ patients had similar FE(NO) values when compared with ACS- and HC patients. All SCD patients were arginine deficient at baseline and showed impairment in respiratory physiology when compared with HC patients. After arginine supplementation, FE(NO) concentration increased in all groups to a similar degree, and lung function and physiologic parameters were minimally affected. The physiologic significance of alterations in FE(NO) in SCD patients and its relationship to ACS predilection requires further delineation.

UI  - 20694469
TI  - Sickle-cell disease and malaria: evaluation of seasonal intermittent preventive treatment with sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine in Senegalese patients-a randomized placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - Sickle-cell disease (SCD) patients are at high risk of developing malaria which is a major contributor to morbidity and mortality in this disease. In Senegal, malaria transmission is high during rainy season, between July and October, and it was noted that sickle-cell crisis are frequent during this period. Then we carried out a double-blind randomized controlled trial to compare the impact of monthly sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine (SP) during the high-transmission season versus placebo on malaria incidence and morbidity of sickle-cell anemia. Sixty (60) SCD patients were randomized either to receive three intermittent preventive treatment (ITP) with SP or placebo using the random permutation table with nine elements. The drug was administrated as follows: sulfadoxine 25 mg/kg and pyrimethamine 1.25 mg/kg and this treatment was given once during the following months: September, October, and November. Overall four episodes of malaria disease were diagnosed, all these cases in the placebo arm. Thus, overall prevalence was 6.6% and there was no other case of malaria in the SP arm during the study period. Parasitological diagnosis confirmed the presence of Plasmodium falciparum in all four cases. No patient death was encountered during the study. SP treatment was well tolerated as only one patient (1.6%) in the SP arm reported pruritus. A significant reduction of patients' complaints (p = 002) and blood requirements (p = 0.001) was noted in the SP group; whereas, no impact was observed on vaso-occlusive crisis and hospitalization occurrence. Malaria prophylaxis by monthly intake of SP during the transmission period of the parasite reduced the prevalence of malaria and was safe in SCD patients leaving in malaria endemic area.

UI  - 20661572
TI  - Deferasirox effectively decreases iron burden in patients with double heterozygous HbS/-thalassemia.
AB  - Iron overload is present in several cases of double heterozygous sickle-cell/beta-thalassemia (HbS/-thal). Deferasirox is an orally administered iron chelator which is effective on iron overloaded patients with transfusion-dependent anemia. The aim of this study was to investigate the efficacy and safety of deferasirox on HbS/-thal patients with iron overload. We evaluated 31 adult patients with HbS/-thal (14M/17F; median age 41 years) who had serum ferritin levels >1,000 ng/mL and who were sporadically transfused. Total iron burden was monitored by measuring serum ferritin levels before and monthly after starting deferasirox, while liver iron concentration and cardiac iron burden were measured by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) T2 and T2* parameters at baseline and 12 months after deferasirox treatment. Deferasirox managed to reduce the mean serum ferritin levels after 12 months of treatment from 1,989  923 to 1,008  776 ng/mL (P < 0.001). This reduction was accompanied by a significant improvement on MRI T2* of the liver (from 3.9  3.2 to 5.8  3.1 ms; P < 0.01) and by a comparable improvement of biochemical parameters of liver function. Mild nausea and diarrhea of grade 1/2 were reported in 25% of patients within the first month of treatment, but did not re-occur. These data indicate that deferasirox provided effective control of iron levels (mainly of the liver) in minimally transfused patients with HbS/-thal, without significant adverse events, at similar doses to those studied widely for the treatment of patients with thalassemia syndromes.

UI  - 20547639
TI  - Incidental findings on brain magnetic resonance imaging of children with sickle cell disease.
AB  - In this large cohort of children, incidental intracranial findings were identified for 6.6%, with potentially serious or urgent findings for 0.6%.

UI  - 20513116
TI  - The risks and benefits of long-term use of hydroxyurea in sickle cell anemia: A 17.5 year follow-up.
AB  - A randomized, controlled clinical trial established the efficacy and safety of short-term use of hydroxyurea in adult sickle cell anemia. To examine the risks and benefits of long-term hydroxyurea usage, patients in this trial were followed for 17.5 years during which they could start or stop hydroxyurea. The purpose of this follow-up was to search for adverse outcomes and estimate mortality. For each outcome and for mortality, exact 95% confidence intervals were calculated, or tests were conducted at alpha = 0.05 level (P-value <0.05 for statistical significance). Although the death rate in the overall study cohort was high (43.1%; 4.4 per 100 person-years), mortality was reduced in individuals with long-term exposure to hydroxyurea. Survival curves demonstrated a significant reduction in deaths with long-term exposure. Twenty-four percent of deaths were due to pulmonary complications; 87.1% occurred in patients who never took hydroxyurea or took it for <5 years. Stroke, organ dysfunction, infection, and malignancy were similar in all groups. Our results, while no longer the product of a randomized study because of the ethical concerns of withholding an efficacious treatment, suggest that long-term use of hydroxyurea is safe and might decrease mortality.

UI  - 20507315
TI  - Association of G6PD with lower haemoglobin concentration but not increased haemolysis in patients with sickle cell anaemia.
AB  - The genetic bases of the highly variable degrees of anaemia and haemolysis in persons with Hb SS are not fully known, but several studies have indicated that G6PD deficiency is not a factor. The G6PD(202A) and G6PD(376G) alleles and alpha-thalassaemia were determined by molecular genetic testing in 261 children and adolescents with Hb SS in a multicentre study. G6PD(202A,376G) (G6PD A-) was defined as hemizygosity for both alleles in males and homozygosity in females. Among the participants 41% were receiving hydroxycarbamide. The prevalence of G6PD(202A,376G) was 13.6% in males and 3.3% in females with an overall prevalence of 8.7%. G6PD(202A,376G) was associated with a 10 g/l decrease in haemoglobin concentration (P = 0.008) but not with increased haemolysis as measured by lactate dehydrogenase, bilirubin, aspartate-aminotransferase, reticulocyte count or a haemolytic component derived from these markers (P > 0.09). Similar results were found within a sub-group of children who were not receiving hydroxycarbamide. By comparison, single and double alpha-globin deletions were associated with progressively higher haemoglobin concentrations (P = 0.005 for trend), progressively lower values for haemolytic component (P = 0.007), and increased severe pain episodes (P < 0.001). In conclusion, G6PD(202A,376G) may be associated with lower haemoglobin concentration in sickle cell anaemia by a mechanism other than increased haemolysis.

UI  - 20466223
TI  - Efficacy of tramadol vs meperidine in vasoocclusive sickle cell crisis.
AB  - Despite progress in management, patients with sickle cell disease who are experiencing acute painful episode are often incompletely treated. We compared meperidine and tramadol with respect to their effects on the hemodynamics and pain relief in patients with sickle cell disease who were admitted to the emergency department with painful crisis. A total of 68 patients with sickle cell disease were randomly assigned to receive either tramadol 1.5 mg/kg (n = 34) or meperidine 1 mg/kg (n = 34). Hemodynamic parameters were recorded at regular intervals after analgesic infusions. Pain intensity and relief were documented by visual analog and pain relief scale, respectively. Sedation level was defined according to Ramsay sedation scale. Both meperidine and tramadol administration resulted in a significant reduction in systolic and diastolic blood pressure after 2 hours (P < .05). Efficacy in pain relief between the analgesics was more rapid and better in the meperidine group, although the degree of relief were significantly improved compared to baseline levels in both groups (P < .05). Sedation was more commonly seen in the meperidine arm. None of the patients had experienced neurotoxicity. In summary, both agents had proven safe and effective for emergent use in patients with sickle cell disease. Avoiding meperidine injections as recommended with previous guidelines needs to be carefully reconsidered especially when low doses are mentioned.

UI  - 20230905
TI  - Assessment of genotoxicity associated with hydroxyurea therapy in children with sickle cell anemia.
AB  - Hydroxyurea induces fetal hemoglobin, improves laboratory parameters, and ameliorates clinical complications of sickle cell anemia (SCA), but its long-term efficacy and safety in this patient population remain incompletely defined. Although generally considered non-DNA reactive, an important safety concern is that hydroxyurea may indirectly cause genotoxic damage. To better address this safety issue of hydroxyurea in patients with SCA, we measured the production of micronuclei (MN) in red blood cells (RBCs) as a marker of genotoxicity. Blood samples were collected from children with SCA enrolled in the Hydroxyurea Study of Long-term Effects (ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00305175). Flow cytometry quantified circulating MN-containing erythrocyte sub-populations before and during hydroxyurea exposure. The frequency of micronucleated reticulocytes (MN-CD71(+)) and micronucleated mature erythrocytes (MN-RBC) was then tested for associations with laboratory and clinical data. In cross-sectional analysis of 293 blood samples from 105 children with SCA and a median of 2 years of hydroxyurea therapy, exposure to hydroxyurea was associated with significantly increased frequencies of MN-CD71(+) and MN-RBC compared to baseline. The increases were evident by 3 months of therapy, and did not escalate further with up to 12 years of continuous drug exposure. In prospective longitudinal analysis, substantial inter-individual variation in the effect of hydroxyurea on %MN-CD71(+) was observed that was associated with the expected laboratory effects of hydroxyurea. In conclusion, clinically relevant exposure to hydroxyurea is associated with increased MN production consistent with erythroblast genotoxicity but with substantial inter-patient variability. Associations between increased %MN-CD71(+) and laboratory benefits suggest that hydroxyurea effects on MN production may be related to individual patient sensitivity to hydroxyurea within the bone marrow.

UI  - 20049931
TI  - Inpatient use of laxatives during opioid administration in children with sickle cell disease.
AB  - A substantial number of hospitalized patients with SCD receiving opioids do not receive laxatives and there is unexpected variability in the use of these medications. Increased attention needs to be paid to constipation prophylaxis in patients with SCD, particularly in younger patients and post-surgical patients.

UI  - 19903897
TI  - The effect of prolonged administration of hydroxyurea on morbidity and mortality in adult patients with sickle cell syndromes: results of a 17-year, single-center trial (LaSHS).
AB  - The aim of this prospective study was to evaluate the long-term efficacy and safety of hydroxyurea (HU) in patients with sickle cell disease (SCD). Thirty-four patients with sickle cell anemia (hemoglobin S [HbS]/HbS), 131 with HbS/beta(0)-thal, and 165 with HbS/beta(+)-thal participated in this trial. HU was administered to 131 patients, whereas 199 patients were conventionally treated. The median follow-up period was 8 years for HU patients and 5 years for non-HU patients. HU produced a dramatic reduction in the frequency of severe painful crises, transfusion requirements, hospital admissions, and incidence of acute chest syndrome. The probability of 10-year survival was 86% and 65% for HU and non-HU patients, respectively (P = .001), although HU patients had more severe forms of SCD. The 10-year probability of survival for HbS/HbS, HbS/beta (0)-thal, and HbS/IVSI-110 patients was 100%, 87%, and 82%, respectively, for HU patients and 10%, 54%, and 66%, for non-HU patients. The multivariate analysis showed that fetal hemoglobin values at baseline and percentage change of lactate dehydrogenase between baseline and 6 months were independently predicted for survival in the HU group. These results highlight the beneficial effect of HU, which seems to modify the natural history of SCD and raise the issue of expanding its use in all SCD patients.

UI  - 19860305
TI  - Exposure to hydroxyurea and pregnancy outcomes in patients with sickle cell anemia.
AB  - The Multicenter Study of Hydroxyurea in Sickle Cell Anemia (MSH) was a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled trial to test whether hydroxyurea could reduce the rate of painful crises in adults who had at least 3 painful crises per year. Because hydroxyurea is known to be carcinogenic, mutagenic, and teratogenic in animals, a major inclusion criterion in MSH was the use of contraceptives both by females and males in order to avoid exposure of the fetus to hydroxyurea. Despite this precautionary measure, some women became pregnant while taking hydroxyurea or their male partners were on hydroxyurea. We followed surviving patients who were enrolled in the original MSH trial for up to 17 years postrandomization. Our findings suggest that exposure of the fetus to hydroxyurea does not cause teratogenic changes in those pregnancies that terminate in live birth whether full-term or premature. This seems to be true whether the parent taking hydroxyurea was the mother or the father. The same argument seems to apply for exposure to opioids. However, it will take a much longer follow-up of many more hydroxyurea-exposed sickle cell disease subjects to establish the results conclusively.

UI  - 19856395
TI  - Adherence to study medication and visits: data from the BABY HUG trial.
AB  - Subjects in the BABY HUG trial have had excellent adherence. SES was not associated with adherence, suggesting that SES should not be used as a criterion for enrolment in clinical trials. Additional efforts are needed to maintain medication adherence, particularly when the interval between scheduled visits increases. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00006400).

UI  - 19731330
TI  - The pediatric hydroxyurea phase III clinical trial (BABY HUG): challenges of study design.
AB  - Evidence of the laboratory benefits of hydroxyurea and its clinical efficacy in reducing acute vaso-occlusive events in adults and children with sickle cell anemia has accumulated for more than 15 years. A definitive clinical trial showing that hydroxyurea can also prevent organ damage might support widespread use of the drug at an early age. BABY HUG is a randomized, double-blind placebo-controlled trial to test whether treating young children ages 9-17 months at entry with a liquid preparation of hydroxyurea (20 mg/kg/day for 2 years) can decrease organ damage in the kidneys and spleen by at least 50%. Creation of BABY HUG entailed unique challenges and opportunities. Although protection of brain function might be considered a more compelling endpoint, preservation of spleen and renal function has clinical relevance, and significant treatment effects might be discernable within the mandated sample size of 200. Concerns about unanticipated severe toxicity and burdensome testing and monitoring requirements were addressed in part by an internal Feasibility and Safety Pilot Study, the successful completion of which was required prior to enrolling a larger number of children on the protocol. Concerns over recruitment of potentially vulnerable subjects were allayed by inclusion of a research subject advocate, or ombudsman. Finally, maintenance of blinding of research personnel was aided by inclusion of an unblinded primary endpoint person, charged with transmitting endpoint data and monitoring blood work locally for toxicity (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00006400).

UI  - 19717646
TI  - A randomized, controlled clinical trial of ketoprofen for sickle-cell disease vaso-occlusive crises in adults.
AB  - Vaso-occlusive crisis (VOC) is the primary cause of hospitalization of patients with sickle-cell disease. Treatment mainly consists of intravenous morphine, which has many dose-related side effects. Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs have been proposed to provide pain relief and decrease the need for opioids. Nevertheless, only a few underpowered trials of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs for sickle-cell VOC have been conducted, and conflicting results were reported. We conducted a phase 3, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial with ketoprofen (300 mg/day for 5 days), a nonselective cyclooxygenase inhibitor, for severe VOC in adults. A total of 66 VOC episodes were included. The primary efficacy outcome was VOC duration. The secondary end points were morphine consumption, pain relief, and treatment failure. Seven VOC episodes in each group were excluded from the analysis because of treatment failures. No significant between-group differences were observed for the primary outcome or the secondary end points. Thus, although ketoprofen was well-tolerated, it had no significant efficacy as treatment of VOC requiring hospitalization. These findings argue against its systematic use in this setting.

UI  - 19683393
TI  - Climatic and geographic temporal patterns of pain in the Multicenter Study of Hydroxyurea.
AB  - No multi-site comparisons have tested whether seasonally cold temperature or climate exacerbate pain intensity in sickle cell disease (SCD). We examined seasonal SCD pain intensity and frequency patterns and compared them with concurrent climate conditions (temperature and barometric pressure) and geography of patient residence in the Multicenter Study of Hydroxyurea (MSH). We conducted a time series analysis of the monthly average daily pain intensity (0-9 scale) and pain frequency of the 299 MSH patients from December 1991 to December 1994. We used both an unobserved component model (UCM) and a nonparametric local regression (LOESS) to probe for a cycle and/or trend associated with the time series. We also examined base mixed regression models of season, monthly average temperature and barometric pressure, and geographic region as stand-alone predictors of pain intensity and frequency. Expanded models included additional predictor variables. UCM and LOESS analyses showed a cyclic pattern of pain intensity and frequency with peaks in late Fall/early Winter and troughs in Spring. Base regression models showed colder seasons were significantly associated with greater pain intensity (p = .0035) but not frequency (p = .07); higher monthly temperatures were significantly associated with both lower pain intensity and pain frequency, but higher monthly barometric pressures were significantly associated with greater pain intensity and frequency (all p's < .0001); and northern sites had nonsignificantly higher pain intensity (p = .40) and frequency (p = .07) than southern sites. This pattern of results did not change in expanded models including other predictors. Our results suggest that seasonably colder temperatures exacerbate sickle cell-related pain, but low barometric pressure does not, and geographic region of residence is not significantly related to pain in this sample.

UI  - 19536844
TI  - Improvement in hemolysis and pulmonary arterial systolic pressure in adult patients with sickle cell disease during treatment with hydroxyurea.
AB  - 

UI  - 19246889
TI  - Painful crises in children with sickle cell disease are not prevented by piracetam.
AB  - 

UI  - 18954999
TI  - Hydroxyurea in sickle cell disease--a study of clinico-pharmacological efficacy in the Indian haplotype.
AB  - There is clinical variability in the presentation of sickle cell disease among Indians. Vaso-occlusive crisis is common among non-tribal patients. Hydroxyurea, induces fetal hemoglobin (HbF) synthesis and reduces the clinical severity of sickle cell disease but individual patients have a variable response. This study was undertaken to investigate the efficacy and safety of hydroxyurea in Indians with severe manifestations where the beta(s) gene is linked to the Arab-Indian haplotype and is associated with higher HbF levels. Seventy-seven patients (29 adult sickle homozygous, 25 pediatric sickle homozygous, 23 adult sickle beta-thalassemia) selected for hydroxyurea therapy were evaluated for clinical, hematological, biochemical and genetic parameters and were followed for 24 months. Ninety-eight point seven percent of the sickle chromosomes were linked to the Arab-Indian haplotype, 27% of patients had associated alpha thalassemia and 65% were Xmn I +/+. Seventy-eight percent of the patients had no further crises after starting hydroxyurea. This effect was accompanied by a significant increase in HbF (p<0.001), but this increase was variable in individual cases. There was also an increase in gamma gene mRNA expression in the few cases so studied. Hemoglobin levels increased significantly (p<0.001) resulting in the cessation of blood transfusions. Leucopoenia was observed in one patient. Hydroxyurea was effective in reducing the clinical severity in Indian patients who initially had higher HbF levels and the presence of ameliorating factors, such as alpha-thalassemia and the Xmn I polymorphism. Hydroxyurea therapy with careful monitoring can thus change the quality of life of Indians with sickle cell disease.

UI  - 18674741
TI  - Zinc supplementation decreases oxidative stress, incidence of infection, and generation of inflammatory cytokines in sickle cell disease patients.
AB  - Zinc deficiency is common in adult sickle-cell disease (SCD) patients. We previously demonstrated that zinc supplementation to adult SCD patients decreased the incidences of infections and hospital admissions. We hypothesize that zinc supplementation improves T-helper cell function and decreases vascular endothelial cell activation, oxidative stress, and nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-kappaB)-DNA binding in mononuclear cells (MNCs) in SCD patients. To test this hypothesis, 36 SCD patients were recruited and randomly divided into 2 groups. One group (n = 18) received 25-mg zinc orally thrice a day for 3 months. The other group (n = 18) received placebo. The results indicate that the zinc-supplemented group had decreased incidence of infections compared with the placebo group. After zinc supplementation, red blood cell, hemoglobin (Hb), hematocrit, (Hct), plasma zinc, and antioxidant power increased; plasma nitrite and nitrate (NOx), lipid peroxidation products, DNA oxidation products, and soluble vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 decreased in the zinc-supplemented group, compared with the placebo group. Zinc-supplemented patients exhibited significant decreases in lipopolysaccharide-induced tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and IL-1beta mRNAs, and TNF-induced nuclear factor of kappaB-DNA binding in MNCs, compared with the placebo group. Ex vivo addition of zinc to MNCs isolated from the placebo subjects decreased TNF-alpha and IL-1beta mRNAs. Zinc supplementation also increased relative levels of IL-2 and IL-2Ralpha mRNAs in phytohemagglutinin-p-stimulated MNCs. These results suggest that zinc supplementation may be beneficial to SCD patients.

UI  - 18671702
TI  - Sodium nitrite promotes regional blood flow in patients with sickle cell disease: a phase I/II study.
AB  - In addition to vaso-occlusion by sickled erythrocytes, the pathophysiology of sickle cell disease (SCD) is compounded by the diminished bioavailability of nitric oxide (NO), associated with vasoconstriction, endothelial activation and cell adhesion. We tested the ability of sodium nitrite, which can be converted to NO by deoxyhaemoglobin at acid pH and low oxygen tension, to improve blood flow in patients with SCD. In a phase I/II clinical trial, sodium nitroprusside, NG-monomethyl-L-arginine, and sodium nitrite were infused sequentially into the brachial artery in 14 patients at steady state. In a dose-dependent manner, sodium nitrite infusion rates of 0.4, 4 and 40 micromol/min into the brachial artery augmented mean venous plasma nitrite concentrations (P < 0.0001) and stimulated forearm blood flow up to 77 +/- 11% above baseline (P < 0.0001), measured by venous occlusion strain gauge plethysmography. This nitrite response was blunted significantly compared to controls without SCD, as previously seen with other NO donors. Sodium nitrite infusions were well tolerated without hypotension, clinically significant methaemoglobinaemia or other untoward events. The unique pharmacological properties of nitrite as a hypoxia-potentiated vasodilator and cytoprotective agent in the setting of ischaemia-reperfusion injury make this anion a plausible NO donor for future clinical trials in SCD.

UI  - 18577791
TI  - Iron deficiency anaemia in sickle cell disorders in India.
AB  - This study suggests that iron deficiency anaemia is an important problem in Indian sickle cell anaemia patients and iron supplementation should be given only in proven cases of iron deficiency anaemia.

UI  - 18508803
TI  - Influence of sickle cell disease and treatment with hydroxyurea on sperm parameters and fertility of human males.
AB  - The observed alterations of semen parameters due to sickle cell disease seem to be exacerbated by hydroxyurea treatment. Until prospective studies reveal reassuring findings, we suggest that a pre-treatment sperm analysis be performed and sperm cryopreservation be offered to patients before hydroxyurea treatment.

UI  - 18322255
TI  - Modulation of erythroid adhesion receptor expression by hydroxyurea in children with sickle cell disease.
AB  - Our results suggest that hydroxyurea acts during erythroid development and modulates adhesion receptor expression and function differently, possibly by acting on gene expression and the signaling cascade leading to receptor activation.

UI  - 18192510
TI  - Efficacy and safety of the Gardos channel blocker, senicapoc (ICA-17043), in patients with sickle cell anemia.
AB  - Senicapoc, a novel Gardos channel inhibitor, limits solute and water loss, thereby preserving sickle red blood cell (RBC) hydration. Because hemoglobin S polymerization is profoundly influenced by intracellular hemoglobin concentration, senicapoc could improve sickle RBC survival. In a 12-week, multicenter, phase 2, randomized, double-blind, dose-finding study, we evaluated senicapoc's safety and its effect on hemoglobin level and markers of RBC hemolysis in sickle cell anemia patients. The patients were randomized into 3 treatment arms: placebo; low-dose (6 mg/day) senicapoc; and high-dose (10 mg/day) senicapoc. For the primary efficacy end point (change in hemoglobin level from baseline), the mean response to high-dose senicapoc treatment exceeded placebo (6.8 g/L [0.68 g/dL] vs 0.1 g/L [0.01 g/dL], P < .001). Treatment with high-dose senicapoc also produced significant decreases in such secondary end points as percentage of dense RBCs (-2.41 vs -0.08, P < .001); reticulocytes (-4.12 vs -0.46, P < .001); lactate dehydrogenase (-121 U/L vs -15 U/L, P = .002); and indirect bilirubin (-1.18 mg/dL vs 0.12 mg/dL, P < .001). Finally, senicapoc was safe and well tolerated. The increased hemoglobin concentration and concomitant decrease in the total number of reticulocytes and various markers of RBC destruction following senicapoc administration suggests a possible increase in the survival of sickle RBCs. This study is registered at http://clinicaltrials.gov as NCT00040677.

UI  - 18024668
TI  - Limitations of clinical trials in sickle cell disease: a case study of the Multi-center Study of Hydroxyurea (MSH) trial and the Stroke Prevention (STOP) trial.
AB  - In the past two decades, two landmark randomized controlled trials (RCT) have been completed among individuals with sickle cell disease (SCD), the Multi-center Study of Hydroxyurea (MSH) trial and the Stroke Prevention (STOP) trial. The MSH trial tested the hypothesis that hydroxyurea will reduce the frequency of painful episodes for adults with hemoglobin SS who had a history of 3 or more painful episodes per year. The STOP trial tested the hypothesis that among children with hemoglobin SS and an elevated transcranial Doppler (TCD) velocity measurement, blood transfusion therapy would decrease the risk of an initial stroke. After completion, both trials have defined standard care for individuals with hemoglobin SS. The purpose of this review is to examine the limitations of the MSH and STOP trials. In the context of these trials, we will examine the effects of narrow inclusion criteria that primarily include participants with hemoglobin SS and secondary analyses that are prone to false-positive results. In addition, we describe how after publication of these two trials use of hydroxyurea and TCD assessment has drifted towards a standard practice without evidence of therapeutic efficacy among groups that were excluded from the trials. Finally, we suggest that rigorously conducted RCTs or at the minimum multicenter observation studies with strong methodology should be performed in these excluded subgroups to confirm a benefit of hydroxyurea or TCD measurement.

UI  - 17991298
TI  - Phase I study of magnesium pidolate in combination with hydroxycarbamide for children with sickle cell anaemia.
AB  - In sickle cell anaemia, red cell dehydration increases intracellular HbS concentration and promotes sickling. Higher erythrocyte magnesium reduces water loss through negative regulation of membrane transporters. Hydroxycarbamide (also known as hydroxyurea) reduces sickling partly by increasing intracellular HbF. Combining drugs with distinct mechanisms could offer additive effects. A phase I trial combining oral magnesium pidolate and hydroxycarbamide was performed to estimate the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and toxicity of magnesium. Cohorts of three children with HbSS, who were on a stable dose of hydroxycarbamide (median 28.5 mg/kg/d), received magnesium pidolate for 6 months beginning at 83 mg/kg/d. The dose was escalated by 50% for subsequent cohorts. Laboratory evaluations were performed at 0, 3, 6 and 9 months. Sixteen children (aged 4-12 years) participated. All four dose-limiting toxicities (grade III diarrhoea and abdominal pain) occurred within the first month of starting magnesium. Additionally, diarrhoea grades I (n = 1) and II (n = 3), and abdominal pain grade II (n = 3) occurred. Hydroxycarbamide dose reduction or interruption was not required. The MTD for magnesium pidolate used in combination with hydroxycarbamide was 125 mg/kg/d. KCl co-transporter activity declined after 3 months of magnesium pidolate (P = 0.02). A phase II study is needed to investigate the efficacy of this drug combination.

UI  - 17916103
TI  - Phase I study of eptifibatide in patients with sickle cell anaemia.
AB  - The alphaIIbbeta3 antagonist eptifibatide is an effective treatment for patients with acute coronary syndromes (ACS). Platelet reactivity and CD40 ligand (CD40L) may play a role in the pathophysiology of sickle cell anaemia (SCA) similar to that in ACS, suggesting that inhibition of platelet aggregation and CD40L release by eptifibatide may benefit patients with SCA. Following eptifibatide infusion, safety and pharmacodynamic data were obtained from four SCA patients in their non-crisis, steady states. Eptifibatide was well tolerated, with no adverse changes in the haematological, biochemical or coagulation parameters studied. Eptifibatide did not increase plasma levels of platelet factor 4 or beta-thromboglobulin, P-selectin exposure or platelet:leucocyte aggregate formation. Moreover, decreases in platelet aggregation and soluble CD40L (sCD40L) levels achieved in SCA patients were comparable to those observed in the treatment of ACS. Finally, indicators of inflammation, macrophage inflammatory protein-1alpha, tumour necrosis factor-alpha and myoglobin were reduced following eptifibatide infusion, while vasodilation correlatives, matrix metalloproteinases (MMP-2 and MMP-9) and leptin were increased. Based on these phase I results, eptifibatide may benefit SCA patients by inhibiting platelet aggregation, decreasing sCD40L levels and favourably altering plasma levels of inflammatory mediators.

UI  - 17721622
TI  - Reduction of painful vaso-occlusive crisis of sickle cell anaemia by tinzaparin in a double-blind randomized trial.
AB  - A randomized double-blind clinical trial was performed to test the safety and efficacy of a low-molecular-weight heparin, tinzaparin (Innohep), for the management of acute painful vasoocclusive crisis characteristic of sickle cell anemia (SCA). We studied 253 patients with acute painful crisis but with no other complications of SCA, randomized to treatment or control groups. In the treatment group, 127 patients received tinzaparin at 175 IU/kg, subcutaneous once daily, along with supportive care including morphine analgesia; in the control group, 126 patients received placebo and the same supportive care. The maximal experimental treatment period was seven days. Analysis revealed a statistically significant reduction in number of days with the severest pain score, overall duration of painful crisis, and duration of hospitalization (p < 0.05 for each comparison of tinzaparin vs. placebo). The decline in pain intensity was sharper for tinzaparin-treated patients, and complications consisted of two minor bleeding events that were reported and treated by cessation of tinzaparin. This investigation demonstrated that tinzaparin, administered at its approved treatment regimen, reduced the severity and duration of acute crisis of SCA.

UI  - 17339198
TI  - Steroid treatment in children with sickle-cell disease.
AB  - Given the controversy concerning the effects of steroids in patients with sickle cell disease (SCD), we evaluated the tolerability of long-term steroid treatment in 16 children with SCD and autoimmune and/or systemic diseases. The steroid treatment was poorly tolerated.

UI  - 17299377
TI  - Fetal hemoglobin in sickle cell anemia: genetic determinants of response to hydroxyurea.
AB  - The increase in fetal hemoglobin (HbF) in response to hydroxyurea (HU) varies among patients with sickle cell anemia. Twenty-nine candidate genes within loci previously reported to be linked to HbF level (6q22.3-q23.2, 8q11-q12 and Xp22.2-p22.3), involved in metabolism of HU and related to erythroid progenitor proliferation were studied in 137 sickle cell anemia patients treated with HU. Three-hundred and twenty tagging single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) for genotyping were selected based on HapMap data. Multiple linear regression and the nonlinear regression Random Forest method were used to investigate the association between SNPs and the change in HbF level after 2 years of treatment with HU. Both methods revealed that SNPs in genes within the 6q22.3-23.2 and 8q11-q12 linkage peaks, and also the ARG2, FLT1, HAO2 and NOS1 genes were associated with the HbF response to HU. Polymorphisms in genes regulating HbF expression, HU metabolism and erythroid progenitor proliferation might modulate the patient response to HU.

UI  - 17233848
TI  - A randomised comparison of deferasirox versus deferoxamine for the treatment of transfusional iron overload in sickle cell disease.
AB  - Deferasirox is a once-daily, oral iron chelator developed for treating transfusional iron overload. Preclinical studies indicated that the kidney was a potential target organ of toxicity. As patients with sickle cell disease often have abnormal baseline renal function, the primary objective of this randomised, open-label, phase II trial was to evaluate the safety and tolerability of deferasirox in comparison with deferoxamine in this population. Assessment of efficacy, as measured by change in liver iron concentration (LIC) using biosusceptometry, was a secondary objective. A total of 195 adult and paediatric patients received deferasirox (n = 132) or deferoxamine (n = 63). Adverse events most commonly associated with deferasirox were mild, including transient nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, abdominal pain and skin rash. Abnormal laboratory studies with deferasirox were occasionally associated with mild non-progressive increases in serum creatinine and reversible elevations in liver function tests. Discontinuation rates from deferasirox (11.4%) and deferoxamine (11.1%) were similar. Over 1 year, similar dose-dependent LIC reductions were observed with deferasirox and deferoxamine. Once-daily oral deferasirox has acceptable tolerability and appears to have similar efficacy to deferoxamine in reducing iron burden in transfused patients with sickle cell disease.

UI  - 17223910
TI  - Effect of myeloablative bone marrow transplantation on growth in children with sickle cell anaemia: results of the multicenter study of haematopoietic cell transplantation for sickle cell anaemia.
AB  - Although haematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) is curative for sickle cell anaemia (SCA), concerns about its short- and long-term toxicities limit its application. A potential toxicity is an adverse effect on growth. To identify an HCT growth effect, serial height and weight measurements from 53 children and adolescents with SCA after receiving a transplant were compared to historical controls. Hierarchical Linear Models for longitudinal data were used for analysis. In general growth was not impaired by HCT for SCA in young children; however, diminished growth may occur if HCT is carried out near or during the adolescent growth spurt.

UI  - 17145606
TI  - Pharmacokinetics of hydroxyurea 1,000 mg coated breakable tablets and 500 mg capsules in pediatric and adult patients with sickle cell disease.
AB  - Little is known about the pharmacokinetics of hydroxyurea in patients with sickle cell disease (SCD). Our aims were to evaluate bioequivalence between standard hydroxyurea capsules and a new formulation of 1,000 mg coated breakable tablets in adults and to compare pharmacokinetic parameters in adults and children with SCD. Fifteen adults received hydroxyurea capsules and tablets in a randomized cross-over study. Eleven children received hydroxyurea tablets. The results showed bioequivalence between capsules and tablets in adults. Pharmacokinetic parameters were not significantly different between adults and children. Considerable inter-individual variability was noted.

UI  - 17064199
TI  - Dose-escalation study of ICA-17043 in patients with sickle cell disease.
AB  - Total systemic exposure of ICA-17043 after a single oral dose, as measured by AUC(0-infinity), increased nearly proportionally with the dose. The rate of absorption, however, appeared to be delayed at doses greater than 100 mg. With the long half-life of ICA-17043 demonstrated in this study, once-daily dosing is probably adequate to maintain steady-state plasma concentrations. In addition, single doses of ICA-17043 were well tolerated.

UI  - 16941613
TI  - Clinical response of patients with sickle cell anemia to cromolyn sodium nasal spray.
AB  - Sickle cell anemia is the most common heritable hematological disease affecting humans. Although hydroxyurea is the most commonly used antisickling agent, several previous studies suggest that cromolyn sodium also prevents sickling when administered acutely. However, no previous studies have evaluated the safety or efficacy of prolonged administration of cromolyn to patients with sickle cell anemia. The purpose of this study, therefore, was to test the hypothesis that prolonged administration of cromolyn alone or in combination with hydroxyurea would decrease the incidence of pain crises and/or alter the chronic pain seen in patients with this disease. In this crossover, single-blind, in vivo and in vitro study, 17 patients with sickle cell disease were studied. Each patient had to fill out a standard pain chart. Every 3 months the patients' medications changed in the following manner: The first 3 months the patients used cromolyn sodium nasal spray; the second 3 months they received placebo nasal spray; the third 3 months they received cromolyn sodium nasal spray and hydroxyurea capsule; and the last 3 months they received hydroxyurea capsule and placebo nasal spray. The least pain was felt with the mixture of hydroxyurea capsule and cromolyn sodium nasal inhaler. Furthermore, with the other combinations of medications, there were no significant statistical changes in the number of sickled red blood cells. Every combination used in this survey had positive effects on decreasing the pain. cromolyn sodium nasal spray is significantly efficient in decreasing sickle cell crisis as well as pain intensity in patients with sickle cell anemia.

UI  - 16939628
TI  - Effects of rapamycin on accumulation of alpha-, beta- and gamma-globin mRNAs in erythroid precursor cells from beta-thalassaemia patients.
AB  - We studied the effects of rapamycin on cultures of erythroid progenitors derived from the peripheral blood of 10 beta-thalassaemia patients differing widely with respect to their potential to produce foetal haemoglobin (HbF). For this, we employed the two-phase liquid culture procedure for growing erythroid progenitors, high performance liquid chromatography for analysis of HbF production and reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction for quantification of the accumulation of globin mRNAs. The results demonstrated that rapamycin induced an increase of HbF in cultures from all the beta-thalassaemia patients studied and an increase of their overall Hb content/cell. The inducing effect of rapamycin was restricted to gamma-globin mRNA accumulation, being only minor for beta-globin and none for alpha-globin mRNAs. The ability of rapamycin to preferentially increase gamma-globin mRNA content and production of HbF in erythroid precursor cells from beta-thalassaemia patients is of great importance as this agent (also known as sirolimus or rapamune) is already in clinical use as an anti-rejection agent following kidney transplantation. These data suggest that rapamycin warrants further evaluation as a potential therapeutic drug in beta-thalassaemia and sickle cell anaemia.

UI  - 16924648
TI  - Hospitalization rates and costs of care of patients with sickle-cell anemia in the state of Maryland in the era of hydroxyurea.
AB  - The multicenter study of hydroxyurea (MSH) in sickle-cell anemia (SCA) demonstrated that patients treated with hydroxyurea (HU) had a 44% decrease in hospitalizations when compared with those taking placebo. A subsequent study looking at the cost-effectiveness of HU showed that decreased hospitalizations for painful crisis accounted for the majority of cost savings in those taking HU. The purpose of this study was to examine whether the expected decrease in hospital utilization occurred after the approval of HU in Maryland. We used data collected by the Maryland Health Services Cost Review Commission to obtain SCA discharge data for Maryland from FY1995 through FY2003. We also reviewed the inpatient and outpatient charts of all adults with SCA admitted to a large university hospital during 2003. Hospitalization rates for adults with SCA in Maryland have increased significantly since approval of HU. While the total costs of inpatient care in Maryland are estimated to have increased by 31% above inflation from 1995 to 2003, the costs of inpatient care for adult SCA patients has increased by almost 60% above inflation. By comparison, there has been no significant increase in the pediatric hospitalization rate. We found that 70% of patients in one hospital who were appropriate candidates for HU were not taking the medication. Hospital utilization among adults with SCA has increased significantly. There are likely many factors that have played a role in this increase. One factor that appears to be involved is the underutilization of HU.

UI  - 16899945
TI  - Effect of hydroxyurea on the deformability of the red blood cell membrane in patients with sickle cell anemia.
AB  - Sickle cell disease is characterized by vaso-occlusive episodes, mainly in the small vessels, resulting in tissue ischemia, multi-organ failure, and, occasionally, death. Hydroxyurea (HU) is an agent with important and effective role in the treatment of patients suffering from this disease. The purpose of this study was to estimate the effect of HU on the deformability of the red blood cell's membrane (RBCM) in an effort to possibly improve the rheological properties of the RBCs of patients with sickle cell anemia (SCA), as well as to investigate the mechanical and rheological properties of these cells using micropipette and filtration techniques. The rigidity index, IR, which is a measure of cell rigidity and the elastic shear modulus, mu, which is a measure of cell's membrane deformability (CMd), of the RBCs from normal subjects, used as normal controls, were found significantly lower as compared to those of patients with SCA, regardless the treatment with HU. Patients under treatment with HU exhibited values better than those of untreated patients, in both, IR as well as mu, although still worse than the values of normal controls.

UI  - 16550531
TI  - Hydroxyurea treatment in children with sickle cell anemia in Central America and the Caribbean countries.
AB  - 

UI  - 16514333
TI  - Analgesic addiction and pseudoaddiction in painful chronic illness.
AB  - These tentative findings were broadly consistent with what is known about analgesic addiction and pseudoaddiction in other painful conditions. They also suggested that current recommendations about addiction in pain patients could understate the potential importance of physiological dependence. The findings could inform staff training programs to improve pain management and reduce the incidence of pseudoaddiction. The classification of pain-related and non-pain-related symptoms could be used in further research on the development of analgesic addiction and the factors that influence staff attributions about addiction in patients with pain.

UI  - 16484568
TI  - Aged garlic extract is a potential therapy for sickle-cell anemia.
AB  - Sickle-cell anemia is one of the most prevalent hereditary disorders with prominent morbidity and mortality. Oxidative phenomena play a significant role in the disorder's pathophysiology. A forumlation of garlic (Allium sativum), AGE, has been reported to exert an antioxidant effect in vitro. We evaluated the antioxidant effect of AGE on sickle red blood cells (RBCs). Five patients (two men and three women, mean age 40+/-15 years, range 24-58 years) with sickle-cell anemia participated in the study. AGE was administered at a dose of 5 mL daily. Whole blood samples were obtained at baseline and at 4 wk, primarily for Heinz body analysis. In all patients, the number of Heinz bodies decreased over the 4-wk period (58.9+/-20.0% at baseline to 29.8+/-15.3% at follow-up; P=0.03). These data suggest that AGE has a significant antioxidant activity on sickle RBCs. AGE may be further evaluated as a potential therapeutic agent to ameliorate complications of sickle-cell anemia.

UI  - 16434381
TI  - Long-term hydroxyurea treatment in children with sickle cell disease: tolerance and clinical outcomes.
AB  - Two hundred twenty-five SCD children have been enrolled in a study assessing the tolerability of hydroxyurea treatment. Mean age at inclusion was 9.2+/-4.4 years, median duration of treatment was 3.8 years. Ten and 75 patients have been treated respectively for more than 10 and 5 years. No severe side effect was related to hydroxyurea treatment, which was discontinued in 81 children mainly for treatment failure (30 cases) or non-compliance (17 cases). Treatment was also withdrawn in 5 of 6 children who had developed hypersplenism, in 3 because of a pathological transcranial Doppler, and in 2 after a stroke.

UI  - 16172253
TI  - Long-term hydroxyurea therapy for infants with sickle cell anemia: the HUSOFT extension study.
AB  - The long-term efficacy and toxicity of hydroxyurea for infants are undefined, and its role in preventing organ dysfunction is unknown. Short-term feasibility of hydroxyurea administration, toxicities, hematologic effects, and effect on spleen function in infants with sickle cell anemia (SCA) were reported (Hydroxyurea Safety and Organ Toxicity [HUSOFT] trial). These infants completing 2 years of hydroxyurea therapy (20 mg/kg/d) were offered study extension with dose escalation to 30 mg/kg/d. Patients were monitored with laboratory tests and biannual imaging studies. Hematologic indices were compared with predicted age-specific values and event rates compared with historic rates. All 21 subjects completing the original trial enrolled in the extension study: median age, 3.4 years old (range, 2.6 to 4.4 years); 12 females; 20 with Hb SS, 1 with Hb S/beta0-thalassemia. Seventeen patients completed 4 years of hydroxyurea, and 11 completed 6 years. After 4 years, hydroxyurea was associated with increased hemoglobin concentration, percentage of fetal hemoglobin (Hb F), and mean corpuscular volume (MCV) and decreased reticulocytes, white blood cells (WBCs), and platelets (P < .01). Patients experienced 7.5 acute chest syndrome (ACS) events per 100 person-years, compared with 24.5 events per 100 person-years among historic controls (P = .001). Treated patients had better spleen function than expected and improved growth rates. Infants with SCA tolerate prolonged hydroxyurea therapy with sustained hematologic benefits, fewer ACS events, improved growth, and possibly preserved organ function.

UI  - 16126058
TI  - Effect of long-term transfusion on growth in children with sickle cell anemia: results of the STOP trial.
AB  - Patients in the Stroke Prevention Trial for Sickle Cell Anemia Study who received CTX had improved height and weight and BMI over a 2-year period. Higher hemoglobin levels resulting from transfusion may improve growth by lowering energy expenditure. In addition to the prevention of vasoocclusive events, CTX results in significant improvement in the growth of children with sickle cell disease.

UI  - 16114181
TI  - In vivo action of Vanillin on delay time determined by magnetic relaxation.
AB  - The antisickling action on polymerization of 4-hydroxy-3-metoxybenzaldehyde (Vanillin) was demonstrated in vivo in a double blind, placebo-controlled clinical therapeutic trial performed in 30 patients (11 belonging to the control group), through the increment of the delay time (td). The td was observed in the kinetic curve of the polymerization of the Hb S solution at 26 degrees C and pH 7.4. The kinetics of the Hb S aliquots was monitored by measuring the proton spin-spin magnetic relaxation time (T2) at 4 MHz. The kinetic curve families of the control group showed similarities and the td values remained constant during the 8 weeks of the study. This was not so for the patients treated with Vanillin, for which the td increased on average 1.6 times. On the other hand, the relative variation of drepanocytes observed by the Simple Test decreased 24.50% Both results indicate a decrease in the effectiveness of the polymerization process.

UI  - 16042696
TI  - Sildenafil therapy in patients with sickle cell disease and pulmonary hypertension.
AB  - (1) sickle cell disease patients with anaemia and pulmonary hypertension have significant exercise limitation; (2) the 6-min walk distance may be a valid endpoint in this population; (3) therapy with sildenafil appears safe and improves pulmonary hypertension and exercise capacity. Additional phase I studies in males with sickle cell disease followed by phase II/III placebo controlled trials evaluating the safety and efficacy of sildenafil therapy in sickle cell disease patients with pulmonary hypertension are warranted.

UI  - 15983428
TI  - Inefficacy of piracetam in the prevention of painful crises in children and adolescents with sickle cell disease.
AB  - Analgesia and hydration remain the only safe treatment for painful crises of sickle cell disease; hydroxyurea is effective, but the toxicity is still a problem. Piracetam is a nootropic drug that has reportedly been effective and non-toxic in sickle cell patients, but most studies were not placebo-controlled and included a small number of patients. The present study evaluated the drug in a double-blind crossed placebo-controlled clinical trial in 73 children and adolescents suffering from moderate to severe painful crises for 13 months. Information regarding frequency and severity of pain was acquired through monthly clinical evaluation, visits and house calls, and 4,300 weekly questionnaires filled out by the patients in their domiciles. A monthly pain score was calculated for each patient. Pain was the most frequent adverse manifestation of the disease stressing its significant bio-psycho-social impact. Although nearly all patients and relatives reported a better clinical course throughout the whole study, the drug was ineffective in the prevention of painful crises. This placebo effect may be ascribed to an unplanned and unsystematic 'cognitive-behavioural' management of the children. The pain score in the second semester of the study - both in the experimental and in the control groups - was significantly smaller than that in the first semester. In conclusion, piracetam was found to be ineffective in the prevention of painful crises; a powerful placebo effect due to adequate patient care was demonstrated.

UI  - 15917266
TI  - Clinical evaluation of extract of Cajanus cajan (Ciklavit) in sickle cell anaemia.
AB  - The major pathology in sickle cell anaemia (SCA) is sickling of red cells due to the precipitation of reduced haemoglobin. We report our experience with extract of Cajanus cajan as a possible antisickling agent by determining changes, if any, in clinical and laboratory features of the disease in patients given the extract in a single-blind placebo-controlled study. One hundred patients with steady-state SCA were randomized into treatment and placebo arms. The extract/placebo were administered twice daily to the subjects. Weight, hepatosplenomegaly, blood levels of biliurubin, urea, creatinine, and packed cell volume (PCV) were monitored over a 6-month period. Recall episodes of pain 6 months before enrolment were compared with episodes of pains recorded during the treatment period. Twenty-six cases (55.3 per cent) had hepatomegaly on enrolment. This significantly reduced to 33.3 per cent at 6 months (p = 0.03); but increased in the placebo arm (p > 0.05). The total number of recall painful episodes in cases was 207 (mean 4.4 +/- 10.3 (SD), range 0-60) and fell to 191 (mean 4.2 +/- 4.4 (SD), range 0-16); p = 0.03. Episodes of pain increased from 109 in controls (mean 2.6 +/- 5.0 (SD), range 0-26) to 164 (mean 3.9 +/- 4.3 (SD), range 0-22); p = 0.01. Mean PCV in the cases showed no appreciable changes (p = 0.1) but there was a significant increase in the controls (p = 0.02). In conclusion, the extract may cause a reduction of painful crises and may ameliorate the adverse effects of sickle cell anaemia on the liver. The mechanism of action remains to be determined.

UI  - 15881719
TI  - [Evaluation of clinical response by hydroxyurea in 132 patients with major sickle cell anemia].
AB  - Hydroxyurea is used since close to 10 years in the treatment of major sickle cell anemia. In African sub Sahara, very little study have been dedicated. Yet, this drug represents nowadays, an alternative tot the bone marrow transplantation in the treatment of this illness. This study permits to illustrate the beneficial effects of this drung on 132 patients affected by of major sickle cell anemia. It is about patients whose middle age is of 28 years (range 14 and 54 years), most frequently masculine sex, followed regularly in the service of haematology of CHUB. The treatment consisted to the administration of the hydroxyurea to the posology between 10 and 30 mg/kg per day. The essentially clinical assessment focused on the sickle cell anemia crises and the modifications of hematologic's parameters. The experimentation has been pursued beyond the 18th month among 108 patients. It takes out again of this survey disappearances of the vasculo occlusive crises among 103 patients on 132 (78.03%) during the first 18 months of the survey. Only 10 patients (7.57%) benefited blood transfusion during the period of the survey because of the infectious complications. The hydroxyurea led a meaningful and spontaneous increase of the haemoglobin rate (+2,54 g/dl) of the middle globular volume (+ 16,02 femtolitres) as well as of the rate of haemoglobin foetale on 65 estimated patients. The hydroxyurea didn't bring any objective improvement on the pre-existing dnnratives complications. The treatment has been interrupted precociously among 5 patients for cytopenia. This survey confirms to short and middle term the beneficial effects of the hydroxyurea on the major sickle cell anaemia.

UI  - 15809885
TI  - Deferiprone as an oral iron chelator in sickle cell disease.
AB  - Iron overload is not uncommon in sickle cell disease (SCD) and requires regular chelation therapy in several instances. The present study evaluates the effect of deferiprone in 15 adult patients with SCD (ten beta(s)/beta(0)thalassemia and five beta(s)/beta(s)) and iron overload. Deferiprone was given at a dose of 75 mg/kg daily for 12 months. The evaluation considered pre- and post-treatment values of serum ferritin, urinary iron excretion, and T2 values of liver and heart obtained by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Eleven patients had a liver biopsy prior to starting therapy to evaluate iron concentration (LIC). Twelve patients completed the study with satisfactory compliance. In ten of them (83.3%) the serum ferritin levels decreased significantly at the end of the trial; in eight patients (66.6%) the reduction of serum ferritin was accompanied by a significant increase of their liver T2 values. All patients had a significant increase of urinary iron excretion in response to the drug. Ferritin levels and liver T2 values correlated with liver iron concentration; on the contrary, ferritin levels and liver T2 values failed to show any correlation with heart T2 values. Heart T2 values did not also show any correlation with left ventricular ejection fraction. Deferiprone was well tolerated and did not cause any significant adverse effects. These results suggest that deferiprone may effectively decrease the iron deposition in patients with SCD; moreover, T2 MRI proves to be a reliable and rapid, noninvasive method for assessing the liver iron load in patients with SCD.

UI  - 15778424
TI  - The influence of renal function on hydroxyurea pharmacokinetics in adults with sickle cell disease.
AB  - This was an open-label, nonrandomized, 2-center study conducted to assess the influence of renal function on the pharmacokinetics of hydroxyurea in adults with sickle cell disease (SCD). Seventeen patients were divided into 5 groups: normal renal function (n = 7), mild renal impairment (n = 2), moderate renal impairment (n = 3), severe renal impairment (n = 2), and end-stage renal disease (ESRD, n = 3). Except for patients with ESRD, all the patients received a 15-mg/kg single oral dose of hydroxyurea. Patients with ESRD received a 15-mg/kg oral dose of hydroxyurea on 2 occasions. Blood and urine samples were collected for the assessment of hydroxyurea pharmacokinetics. The results indicate that the systemic exposure increases and the urinary recovery decreases as the degree of renal insufficiency worsens. On the basis of the exposure and the apparent clearance from the current and 2 historical studies, the authors have proposed an initial dosing regimen of hydroxyurea (7.5 mg/kg/day) for SCD patients with CL(cr) <60 mL/min. This dosing strategy is anticipated to provide a safe dose for SCD patients with renal impairment.

UI  - 15612454
TI  - Effects of poloxamer 188 treatment on sickle cell vaso-occlusive crisis: computer-assisted intravital microscopy study.
AB  - Nine patients with sickle cell disease (SCD) who were hospitalized at UC Davis Medical Center for vaso-occlusive crisis (VOC) were studied as part of a randomized double-blind phase III clinical trial to investigate the real-time effects of poloxamer 188 on VOC. All patients showed significant microvascular changes from normal (steady-state) values during VOC (diminished venular diameter and red cell velocity). The patients were randomly assigned to be treated with poloxamer 188 or placebo. Poloxamer 188 (n = 4) but not placebo (n = 5) significantly reversed these microvascular changes approximately 2 hours postinitiation of loading infusion (100 mg/kg in 1 hour). Further significant improvement induced by poloxamer 188 but not placebo was observed > or = 7 hours postinfusion, resulting in a significant reversal of the microvascular changes to steady-state values.

UI  - 15454831
TI  - Oral glutamine supplementation decreases resting energy expenditure in children and adolescents with sickle cell anemia.
AB  - After 24 weeks of orally administered glutamine, children and adolescents with sickle cell anemia had a decrease in REE and improvement in nutritional parameters. Those who were underweight had a greater decrease in REE than those of normal body weight. Lowering REE may be an effective way to improve the growth of these children and adolescents.

UI  - 15347549
TI  - The effect of magnesium on length of stay for pediatric sickle cell pain crisis.
AB  - IV magnesium appears to decrease the LOS for children with sickle cell pain crisis.

UI  - 15307105
TI  - Follow-up of sickle cell disease patients with priapism treated by hydroxyurea.
AB  - Hydroxyurea is one of the most successfully used therapies for sickle cell disease. Results of many clinical trials point to hydroxyurea administration for patients with frequent painful crises and acute chest syndrome. Priapism is one of the complications that could be prevented by hydroxyurea, but there are few reports demonstrating the results. Since November 1993, hydroxyurea has been used in our clinic for preventing priapism in patients with stuttering or major attacks who are still capable of achieving intercourse on demand. Five patients were enrolled in the study, and 4 cases benefited by this treatment. After the initial treatment for the acute attack, all five patients developed stuttering priapism. Hydroxyurea was then introduced at the initial dose of 10 mg/kg, and as the hydroxyurea dosage increased, the number or length of priapism episodes decreased. One to two months after the maximal dose (20-35 mg/kg) was introduced, the episodes disappeared. In two patients, we were forced to administer over 30 mg hydroxyurea/kg to abort the episodes, and, in another patient, 25 mg/kg was necessary. All patients present normal sexual activity. Hydroxyurea was discontinued in two patients, but stuttering priapism reappeared. Hydroxyurea was then re-introduced, and priapism disappeared. One patient, using 20 mg hydroxyurea/kg, had a 6-year remission of priapism after hydroxyurea administration; however, he experienced stuttering priapism, 1 month before a major attack, that progressed to impotence. During that month, he did not seek medical attention. In conclusion, the data here presented suggests that hydroxyurea may prevent priapism attacks in sickle cell disease, probably at higher doses than usually prescribed for painful crisis prevention.

UI  - 15205096
TI  - Clinical response and adverse events in young patients with sickle cell disease treated with hydroxyurea.
AB  - The authors studied the long-term clinical and hematological response to hydroxyurea (HU) therapy in young patients, with either S/beta-thalassemia (beta(thal)) (8 patients) or SS (6 patients). All patients with S/beta(thal) responded well to treatment. Longitudinal evaluation of Hb, HbF, and MCV showed a significant increase compared to baseline levels, but the pattern of HbF changes varied among patients. Changes in HbF and Hb correlated well with baseline HbF. Favorable clinical responses, as documented by decline in hospitalization days for vasoocclusive crisis and transfused units of packed red blood cells, were also noted. During treatment, 1 patient was diagnosed with Hodgkin's lymphoma and 2 patients developed bilateral avascular necrosis of the femoral head. HU seems to be effective in a high proportion of young patients with sickle cell disease and in particular with S/beta(thal), but cannot eliminate occurrence of serious adverse events.

UI  - 15020264
TI  - Effects of hydroxyurea on the membrane of erythrocytes and platelets in sickle cell anemia.
AB  - Hydroxyurea treatment reduces PS expression on the surface of erythrocytes and platelets, thus contributing to the favorable effects of this therapy.

UI  - 15001964
TI  - Systemic exposure to morphine and the risk of acute chest syndrome in sickle cell disease.
AB  - The risk of acute chest syndrome is significantly associated with high systemic exposure to morphine and its active metabolite morphine-6-glucuronide after oral administration of slow-release morphine. Morphine may facilitate respiratory deterioration by eliciting a decrease in oxygen saturation, by inducing histamine release, or through an as-yet-unidentified mechanism. The safe systemic exposure to morphine in terms of area under the concentration-time curve should be further studied in children with sickle cell disease.

UI  - 14962240
TI  - Effect of low-dose warfarin on D-dimer levels during sickle cell vaso-occlusive crisis: a brief report.
AB  - Patients with SCD during vaso-occulsive painful crisis have an elevated D-dimer level. Low-dose anticoagulation treatment is associated with a significant reduction in the D-dimer levels.

UI  - 14630791
TI  - Sustained long-term hematologic efficacy of hydroxyurea at maximum tolerated dose in children with sickle cell disease.
AB  - Hydroxyurea improves hematologic parameters for children with sickle cell disease (SCD), but its long-term efficacy at maximum tolerated dose (MTD) has not been determined. Between 1995 and 2002, hydroxyurea therapy was initiated for 122 pediatric patients with SCD including 106 with homozygous sickle cell anemia (HbSS), 7 with sickle hemoglobin C (HbSC), 7 with sickle/beta-thalassemia (HbS/ beta-thalassemia [6 HbS/beta0, 1 HbS/beta+]), and 2 with sickle hemoglobin OArab (HbS/OArab). Median age at initiation of therapy was 11.1 years. Hydroxyurea was escalated to MTD, with an average dose of 25.4 +/- 5.4 mg/kg per day; the average duration of hydroxyurea therapy has been 45 +/- 24 months (range, 6-101 months). Hydroxyurea was discontinued for 15 (12%) children with poor compliance. Mild transient neutropenia occurred, but no hepatic or renal toxicity was noted. Hydroxyurea therapy led to significant increases in hemoglobin level, mean corpuscular volume, and fetal hemoglobin (HbF) level, whereas significant decreases occurred in reticulocyte, white blood cell, and platelet counts and serum bilirubin levels. Children with variant SCD genotypes also had hematologic responses to hydroxyurea. HbF induction has been sustained for up to 8 years without adverse effects on growth or increased numbers of acquired DNA mutations. Long-term hydroxyurea therapy at MTD is well tolerated by pediatric patients with SCD and has sustained hematologic efficacy with apparent long-term safety.

UI  - 12907443
TI  - Effects of 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine on fetal hemoglobin levels, red cell adhesion, and hematopoietic differentiation in patients with sickle cell disease.
AB  - Fetal hemoglobin (HbF) decreases polymerization of sickle hemoglobin (HbS) and improves outcomes in sickle cell disease (SSD). Therefore, a therapeutic goal in SSD is pharmacologic reactivation of HbF. Silencing of the gamma-globin (HbF) gene is associated with DNA methylation. The cytosine analog 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine (decitabine) hypomethylates DNA by inhibiting DNA methyltransferase. We examined if subcutaneous decitabine could increase HbF levels and improve SSD pathophysiology without cytotoxicity. Eight symptomatic SSD patients resistant or intolerant of standard treatment with hydroxyurea received decitabine 0.2 mg/kg subcutaneously 1 to 3 times per week in 2 cycles of 6-week duration. Treatment decreased neutrophils and increased mean HbF (6.5% to 20.4%, P <.0001) and mean total hemoglobin (76 to 96 g/L [7.6 to 9.6 g/dL], P <.001). Features of vaso-occlusive crisis pathophysiology such as red cell adhesion, endothelial damage, and coagulation pathway activity significantly improved. gamma-Globin gene promoter methylation decreased, and platelets and the proportion of megakaryocytes and erythroid cells in the marrow increased without a decrease in marrow cellularity, consistent with a DNA hypomethylating, noncytotoxic mechanism of action. Weekly subcutaneous decitabine produces cumulative increases in HbF and total hemoglobin through a noncytotoxic mechanism of action. Chronic dosing and sustained increases in hemoglobin F and total hemoglobin levels may be possible. Further studies in SSD and thalassemia are indicated.

UI  - 12902916
TI  - Hydroxyurea and arginine therapy: impact on nitric oxide production in sickle cell disease.
AB  - While Arg alone does not increase serum NO(x) production in SCD patients at steady state, it does when given together with HU. Hence, co-administration of Arg with HU may augment the NO(x) response in SCD and improve utilization of Arg in patients at steady state.

UI  - 12701116
TI  - Effects of N-acetylcysteine on dense cell formation in sickle cell disease.
AB  - The extent to which dense and irreversible sickle cells (ISCs) contribute to vaso-occlusive episodes in sickle cell disease remains unclear. N-Acetylcysteine (NAC) inhibits dense cell and ISC formation in sickle erythrocytes in vitro and restores glutathione levels toward normal. A phase II double-blind randomized clinical trial was completed to determine the efficacy of NAC in decreasing dense cell and ISC formation, and vaso-occlusive episodes in sickle cell disease. Twenty-one subjects with a history of at least two vaso-occlusive episodes per year and 6% dense cells were enrolled. Four treatment groups were analyzed; NAC at a dose of 2,400 mg per day decreased the percent dense cells from 20.1 +/- 2.9 to 12.6 +/- 2.1 (P < 0.05) and increased red cell glutathione levels from 292.8 +/- 74.5 to 576.7 +/- 155.1 (P < 0.05). In addition, we observed a decrease in vaso-occlusive episodes from 0.03 to 0.006 episodes per person-days and a decreased in relative risk to R = 0.39. Although NAC did not significantly decrease the number of ISCs, there was a downward trend at all doses tested. In summary, NAC inhibited dense cell formation, restored glutathione levels toward normal, and decreased vaso-occlusive episodes at a well-tolerated dose of 2,400 mg per day. To determine the long-term efficacy and safety of NAC, a multicenter phase III clinical trial is required.

UI  - 12677174
TI  - UGT1A promoter polymorphisms influence bilirubin response to hydroxyurea therapy in sickle cell anemia.
AB  - Hydroxyurea therapy reduces hemolysis and decreases serum bilirubin levels in children and adults with sickle cell anemia (SCA) and may therefore help prevent the development of cholelithiasis in this patient population. We recently reported that a promoter polymorphism in the uridine diphosphoglucuronate glucuronosyltransferase 1A (UGT1A) gene affects steady-state bilirubin levels and the incidence of gallstones in children with SCA. We have now analyzed the influence of the UGT1A genotype on the therapeutic response to hydroxyurea. A large cohort of children with SCA taking hydroxyurea therapy at the maximum tolerated dose demonstrated significant reductions in hemolysis independent of UGT1A promoter polymorphism genotype, but the hydroxyurea-related decreases in serum bilirubin levels were significantly different. Children with the wild-type 6/6 UGT1A genotype demonstrated normalized bilirubin levels with hydroxyurea therapy, but children with the heterozygous 6/7 or abnormal 7/7 genotypes did not. Children with the abnormal 7/7 genotype, which confers the phenotype of Gilbert syndrome, had bilirubin levels greater than 3 mg/dL despite full-dose hydroxyurea therapy. These data indicate the UGT1A promoter polymorphism is a powerful nonglobin genetic modifier in SCA that influences serum bilirubin both at baseline and on hydroxyurea therapy. UGT1A promoter polymorphisms may therefore influence the ability of hydroxyurea to prevent gallstone formation in patients with SCA.

UI  - 12672732
TI  - Effect of hydroxyurea on mortality and morbidity in adult sickle cell anemia: risks and benefits up to 9 years of treatment.
AB  - Adult patients taking hydroxyurea for frequent painful sickle cell episodes appear to have reduced mortality after 9 of years follow-up. Survival was related to HbF levels and frequency of vaso-occlusive events. Whether indications for hydroxyurea treatment should be expanded is unknown.

UI  - 12622584
TI  - Preliminary assessment of inhaled nitric oxide for acute vaso-occlusive crisis in pediatric patients with sickle cell disease.
AB  - Results of this exploratory study suggest that INO may be beneficial for acute vaso-occlusive crisis. These preliminary results warrant further investigation.

UI  - 12538427
TI  - Divergent nitric oxide bioavailability in men and women with sickle cell disease.
AB  - NO bioavailability and NO responsiveness are greater in women than in men with sickle cell disease and determines adhesion molecule expression. Endothelium-dependent blood flows are largely non-NO mediated in male patients. These results provide a possible mechanism for reported sex differences in sickle cell disease morbidity and mortality and provide a basis for novel pharmacological interventions.

UI  - 12468915
TI  - Induction of fetal hemoglobin synthesis in children with sickle cell anemia on low-dose oral sodium phenylbutyrate therapy.
AB  - This study was designed to determine if low doses of oral sodium phenylbutyrate (SPB) induce hemoglobin F (HbF) synthesis in children with hemoglobin SS (HbSS). We treated 8 children with HbSS over a period of 5-30 weeks. The initial dose (1.0 g/d) was increased weekly (by 1.0 g/d) until F-reticulocytes doubled. All patients showed an increase in F-reticulocytes (P = 0.002) that was dose-dependent (P = 0.001). Three of 5 patients who continued oral SPB for more than 10 weeks had substantial increases in HbF. We conclude that lower dose SPB is effective in inducing HbF synthesis in some children with HbSS. Further trials are warranted to determine the optimal treatment regimen.

UI  - 12218595
TI  - Streptococcus pneumoniae sepsis and meningitis during the penicillin prophylaxis era in children with sickle cell disease.
AB  - The purpose of this study was to determine the age-related risks, disease-specific risks, and characteristics of serious pneumococcal infections in children with sickle cell disease (SCD) while penicillin prophylaxis was standard. The clinical experiences of three pediatric sickle cell programs spanning January 1, 1992, to May 31, 1998, were combined. Data were collected regarding the patients followed up and the characteristics of bacteremia and meningitis cases. Forty-seven pneumococcal infections (44 bacteremia, 3 meningitis) among 40 patients with SCD were observed. Forty infections occurred in children with homozygous hemoglobin S (SS) during 4108 patient-years at a median age of 22 months; 7 occurred in double heterozygous hemoglobin SC (SC) children during 1777 patient-years at a median age of 23 months. Ten infections occurred among 9 SS children 5 years or older. Most children in whom infections developed were reportedly taking prophylactic penicillin and when older than 24 months old had received Pneumovax (Merck & Co., Inc., West Point, PA, U.S.A. The following pneumococcal serotypes were identified in 15 cases studied: 6A, 6B, 9V, 14, 15B, 18B, 18F, 19F, and 23F. Infections resulted in five deaths and two strokes. The observed severe pneumococcal infection rate in SS children younger than 5 years was less than that reported before penicillin prophylaxis, supporting routine penicillin prophylaxis in this specific population. The optimal duration of penicillin prophylaxis in older children with SCD remains unknown. The administration of 7-valent Prevnar (Wyeth Lederle Vaccines, Philadelphia, PA, U.S.A.) to children younger than 24 months old with SCD should be beneficial, based on the serotype data.

UI  - 12032523
TI  - Hydroxyurea therapy associated with declining serum levels of magnesium in children with sickle cell anemia.
AB  - These findings warrant a controlled study of the effects of magnesium supplementation in patients with SCA receiving hydroxyurea. Potentially, such therapy could alleviate or prevent vaso-occlusive crises.

UI  - 12010787
TI  - Maintenance of elevated fetal hemoglobin levels by decitabine during dose interval treatment of sickle cell anemia.
AB  - We have previously demonstrated that 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine (decitabine) augments fetal hemoglobin (HbF) levels in patients with sickle cell anemia (SS) who did not respond to hydroxyurea (HU). The present study was designed to determine the effect of repeated decitabine dosing on HbF levels and hematologic toxicity over a 9-month treatment period. Seven patients (5 HU nonresponders) were entered. One patient had alpha-thalassemia sickle cell anemia. Decitabine was administered by intravenous infusion at a starting dose of 0.3 mg/kg per day, 5 days a week for 2 weeks, followed by a 4-week observation period. If the absolute neutrophil count dropped below 1000, the dose was reduced by 0.05 mg/kg per day in the next cycle. A drug dose was obtained for each patient, and it resulted in an elevated HbF without neutropenia (absolute neutrophil count nadir greater than 1500) or evidence of cumulative toxicity. Average HbF and average maximal HbF levels attained during the last 20 weeks of treatment for the 6 SS patients increased to 13.93% +/- 2.75% and 18.35% +/- 4.46%, respectively, from a pretreatment mean of 3.12% +/- 2.75%. Mean and mean maximal hemoglobin (Hb) levels increased from 7.23 +/- 2.35 g/dL to 8.81 +/- 0.42 g/dL and 9.73 +/- 0.53 g/dL, respectively. Individual maximal F-cell number observed during the trial was 69% +/- 10.12%. The absence of cumulative toxicity may allow shorter intervals between drug treatments, which may lead to higher hemoglobin and HbF levels after several treatment cycles and, therefore, to greater clinical improvement.

UI  - 11938415
TI  - Hydroxyurea in sickle cell disease patients from Eastern Saudi Arabia.
AB  - Hydroxyurea seems to be effective in decreasing the frequency of vasooclusive crises in patient with sickle cell disease from Eastern Saudi Arabia. In this preliminary analysis no major side effects were observed. Long term side effects need to be monitored.

UI  - 11914893
TI  - Scintigraphic follow-up of the effects of therapy with hydroxyurea on splenic function in patients with sickle cell disease.
AB  - Patients with sickle cell disease (SCD) may develop functional asplenia as a chronic complication, secondary to repeated episodes of polymerisation of haemoglobin S. It is known that increased plasma concentrations of fetal haemoglobin (HbF) reduce the polymerisation of haemoglobin S. Hydroxyurea is a chemotherapeutic agent capable of increasing HbF levels in the red blood cells and its use has recently been proposed in the treatment of SCD. The objective of this study was to evaluate the effects of long-term therapy with hydroxyurea on recovery of splenic function. Twenty-one patients (aged 3-22 years; 14 with SS haemoglobinopathy, 7 with Sbeta(0) haemoglobinopathy) were studied with liver/spleen scintigraphy before and after 6 and 12 months of treatment. All studies were submitted to visual inspection and semi-quantitative analyses using spleen/liver ratios. Imaging prior to treatment demonstrated functional asplenia in nine SS patients and one Sbeta(0) patient and impaired splenic function in five SS patients and six Sbeta(0) patients. After treatment, splenic function improved in ten patients, remained unchanged in eight and worsened in three. Using liver/spleen imaging, it was possible to demonstrate that hydroxyurea is capable of improving splenic function in some SCD patients. Improvement is not always possible and frequently does not lead to a normal splenic function even after 1 year of treatment.

UI  - 11756146
TI  - Predictors of fetal hemoglobin response in children with sickle cell anemia receiving hydroxyurea therapy.
AB  - In the phase I/II pediatric hydroxyurea safety trial (HUG-KIDS), school-aged children with sickle cell anemia receiving hydroxyurea at the maximally tolerated dose (MTD) had variable increases in the percentage of fetal hemoglobin (%HbF). To identify predictors of the HbF response to hydroxyurea therapy, baseline clinical and laboratory values (age, sex, hemoglobin concentration, %HbF, reticulocytes, white blood cell [WBC], platelets, and serum chemistries), as well as treatment variables (number of toxicities, noncompliance, MTD dose, and MTD blood counts) were analyzed in 53 HUG-KIDS children who achieved MTD. Baseline %HbF values (P =.001), baseline hemoglobin concentration (P =.01), MTD dose (P =.02), and compliance (P =.02) were significantly associated with a higher %HbF at MTD; in contrast, age, sex, number of toxicities, and other baseline hematologic parameters were not. After adjusting for variations in baseline %HbF, the baseline reticulocyte count (P =.05) and baseline WBC count (P =.05) were also significantly associated with a higher %HbF at MTD. Hydroxyurea-induced increases in the hemoglobin concentration and mean corpuscular volume (both higher absolute values at MTD and larger positive changes from baseline values), as well as hydroxyurea-induced decreases in reticulocytes and WBC count, were significantly associated with a higher %HbF at MTD. These data suggest that selected baseline laboratory parameters, a higher MTD dose with attention to compliance, and greater therapy-related changes in blood counts may predict the HbF response to hydroxyurea therapy for children with sickle cell anemia. The HbF response to hydroxyurea is variable and complex, however, and even children with low baseline %HbF values can develop substantial increases in %HbF at MTD.

UI  - 11754399
TI  - Low adjusted-dose acenocoumarol therapy in sickle cell disease: a pilot study.
AB  - Vasoocclusion is a continuous process in sickle cell disease (SCD) and accumulates to significant end organ damage, mostly irrespective of the occurrence of manifest acute vasoocclusive events. As there are indications that reversing the hypercoagulable state may be of clinical benefit in sickle cell patients, we performed a randomized, double blind, placebo-controlled, cross-over pilot study to assess the efficacy and safety of low-adjusted dose acenocoumarol therapy (International Normalized Ratio: 1.6-2.0) in SCD. Treatment consisted of either acenocoumarol or placebo for 14 weeks, after which treatment was discontinued for a period of five weeks. Then, patients initially on acenocoumarol received placebo (and vice versa) for 14 weeks. Therapy efficacy was assessed by comparing the frequency of vasoocclusive complications, the occurrence of bleeding, and clotting activation between acenocoumarol and placebo treatment of each individual patient. Twenty-two patients (14 homozygous [HbSS] and 8 double heterozygous sickle-C [HbSC]; aged 20-59 years) completed the entire study. Acenocoumarol treatment did not result in a significant reduction of acute vasoocclusive events (three painful crises during acenocoumarol, five painful crises during placebo). There was a marked reduction of the hypercoagulable state (depicted by a decrease in plasma levels of prothrombin F1.2 fragments [P = 0.002], thrombin-antithrombin complexes [P = 0.003], and D-dimer fragments [P = 0.001]) without the occurrence of major bleeding. Even though no clinical benefit (pertaining to the frequency of painful crises) was detected in this pilot study, the value of low adjusted-dose acenocoumarol for preventing specific events (such as strokes) and as a long-term treatment of sickle cell patients should be subject of further study.

UI  - 11743503
TI  - A two-year pilot trial of hydroxyurea in very young children with sickle-cell anemia.
AB  - Hydroxyurea therapy for infants with SCA is feasible and well tolerated, has hematologic efficacy, and may delay functional asplenia. The potential for hydroxyurea to preserve organ function in SCA should be further evaluated.

UI  - 11694150
TI  - Purified poloxamer 188 for treatment of acute vaso-occlusive crisis of sickle cell disease: A randomized controlled trial.
AB  - A decrease in the duration of painful episodes and an increase in the proportion of patients who achieved resolution of the symptoms were observed when the purified poloxamer 188-treated patients were compared with the patients receiving placebo. However, the difference between these groups was significant but relatively small. In subgroup analysis, a more significant effect on both parameters was observed in children and in patients who were receiving concomitant hydroxyurea. It is important to confirm both of these observations in further prospective trials.

UI  - 11688916
TI  - Oral citrulline as arginine precursor may be beneficial in sickle cell disease: early phase two results.
AB  - L-Arginine may be a conditionally essential amino acid in children and adolescents with sickle cell disease, particularly as required substrate in the arginine-nitric oxide pathway for endogenous nitrovasodilation and vasoprotection. Vasoprotection by arginine is mediated partly by nitric oxide-induced inhibition of endothelial damage and inhibition of adhesion and activation of leukocytes. Activated leukocytes may trigger many of the complications, including vasoocclusive events and intimal hyperplasias. High blood leukocyte counts during steady states in the absence of infection are significant laboratory risk factors for adverse complications. L-Citrulline as precursor amino acid was given orally twice daily in daily doses of approximately 0.1 g/kg in a pilot Phase II clinical trial during steady states in four homozygous sickle cell disease subjects and one sickle cell-hemoglobin C disease patient (ages 10-18). There soon resulted dramatic improvements in symptoms of well-being, raised plasma arginine levels, and reductions in high total leukocyte and high segmented neutrophil counts toward or to within normal limits. Continued L-citrulline supplementation in compliant subjects continued to lessen symptomatology, to maintain plasma arginine concentrations greater than control levels, and to maintain nearly normal total leukocyte and neutrophil counts. Side effects or toxicity from citrulline were not experienced. Oral L-citrulline may portend very useful for palliative therapy in sickle cell disease. Placebo-controlled, long-term trials are now indicated.

UI  - 11515714
TI  - Double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomised cross-over clinical trial of NIPRISAN in patients with Sickle Cell Disorder.
AB  - The study was undertaken to determine the safety and efficacy of NIPRISAN, a phytomedicine, developed for the management of patients with Sickle Cell Disorder (SCD). The study design is a placebo-controlled double blind cross-over trial. Eighty-two (82) patients with SCD were recruited and randomised into two groups. An initial 4 month pre-trial study was undertaken to determine the similarity of the groups. The main study was conducted over a twelve-month period with crossover at six months. Safety of the drug was assessed clinically and biochemically. NIPRISAN significantly (P < 0.01) reduced the frequency of SCD crisis associated with severe pains. Acute toxicity to the liver assessed by the activities of liver enzymes, indicate that NIPRISAN is safe. Renal function assessed by the serum levels of creatinine and blood urea nitrogen remained normal. Both the clinical and laboratory results of the present phase IIB (pivot) clinical study suggest that NIPRISAN is a safe and efficacious phytomedicine for the management of patients with Sickle Cell Disorder.

UI  - 11434703
TI  - Reduction of pain episodes and prothrombotic activity in sickle cell disease by dietary n-3 fatty acids.
AB  - The effects of dietary n-3 fatty acids (n-3FAs) on the frequency of pain episodes and ex vivo blood tests of thrombosis have been evaluated in patients with sickle cell disease (SCD) utilizing a double-blind, olive oil-controlled clinical trial. Dietary n-3FA therapy (0.1 g/kg/d) was provided as menhaden fish oil (0.25 g/kg/d) containing 12% eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA), and 18% docosahexaenoic acid (DHA). Within 1 month dietary n-3FAs exchanged with n-6FAs in plasma and erythrocyte membrane phospholipids (p <0.01 in all cases). Treatment with dietary n-3FAs for 1 year reduced the frequency of pain episodes requiring presentation to the hospital from 7.8 events during the preceding year to 3.8 events/year (p <0.01; n = 5). By contrast, subjects receiving control dietary olive oil (n = 5) experienced 7.1 pain events/year, compared to 7.6 during the previous year (p >0.4). The reduction in episodes in n-3FA-treated subjects was also significant when compared to control subjects (p <0.01). Dietary n-3FA therapy was not associated with hemorrhagic, gastrointestinal or other adverse effects. Compared to 10 asymptomatic African-American controls, sickle cell subjects demonstrated significantly increased pretreatment: 1) flow cytometric expression of platelet membrane P-selectin (CD62p; p <0.01) and annexin V binding sites (p = 0.02); 2) plasma levels of platelet-specific secretory proteins platelet factor 4 (PF4) and beta-thromboglobulin (betaTG) (p <0.01 in both cases); 3) plasma products of thrombin generation, prothrombin fragment 1.2 (F1.2) and thrombin:antithrombin (TAT) complex (p <0.01 in both cases); and 4) plasma levels of thrombolytic products, D-dimer and plasmin:antiplasmin (PAP) complex (p <0.01 in both cases). Treatment with dietary n-3FAs concurrently decreased plasma levels of F1.2, D-dimer, and PAP (p <0.05, compared to olive oil controls), implying that the reduction in pain events was related to n-3FA-dependent inhibition of thrombosis. We conclude that dietary n-3FAs reduce the frequency of pain episodes perhaps by reducing prothrombotic activity in sickle cell disease.

UI  - 11372003
TI  - Aspartame effect in sickle cell anemia.
AB  - Further evaluations of the efficacy of aspartame for sickle crisis and crisis prevention appears to be warranted.

UI  - 11300353
TI  - Clinical and hematological responses to hydroxyurea in Sicilian patients with Hb S/beta-thalassemia.
AB  - Although, several reports have detailed that hydroxyurea can ameliorate the clinical course of adult and pediatric patients with sickle cell anemia (Hb S or beta(S)), few clinical studies have been carried out in patients with beta(S)/beta-thalassemia. In a two-year clinical study, we evaluated the efficacy of hydroxyurea in a group of 22 adult Sicilian patients with beta(S)/beta-thalassemia with severe phenotypes. Among the 20 patients evaluated during 2 years of treatment, we observed a very good clinical response with a 93% reduction of the annual number of crises (median 7 versus 0.5 crises per year; P < 0.001) and of days in hospital (mean 22+/- 21.9 versus 1.2 +/- 2.3; P < 0.001), a significant increase in Hb F (7.5 +/- 5.3% versus 25.2 +/- 5.2%; P < 0.001) and in MCV (73.1 +/- 4.8 fL versus 96.4 +/- 7.2 fL; P < 0.001), and no significant modifications in Hb (9.6 +/- 1.3 g/dL versus 10.0 +/- 1.5 g/dL; P > 0.05) and in WBC (11.4 +/- 3.9 x 10(9)/L versus 10.2 +/- 3.9 x 10(9)/L; P > 0.05). Twelve patients had no crises from the first month of treatment; 16 patients showed a 2-3-fold increase over baseline in Hb F. During the study no severe complications and no important side effects of hydroxyurea were observed. Our data suggest that hydroxyurea efficacy in patients with beta(S)/beta-thalassemial may be greater than that described in patients with sickle cell disease. This pattern and durability of response will need to be confirmed in a larger, randomized, clinical trial.

UI  - 11112383
TI  - Reduction of the clinical severity of sickle cell/beta-thalassemia with hydroxyurea: the experience of a single center in Greece.
AB  - The use of hydroxyurea for the prevention of sickle cell crises in patients with homozygous HbS disease is now well established. The beneficial effects of this compound stem from (a) selective enrichment of red cells containing an increased amount of fetal hemoglobin, which inhibits HbS polymerization, and (b) a decrease of leukocytes, platelets, and reticulocytes, which significantly limits their adherence to the vascular wall. We report the results of a clinical trial of hydroxyurea on 55 Greek-origin patients with sickle cell/beta-thalassemia and 14 patients with homozygous HbS disease who have been treated with hydroxyurea for several years. Such patients have a higher probability to benefit from hydroxyurea therapy, since in addition to its antisickling effect, the increase of gamma-chain synthesis is expected to diminish the deleterious effects of the unbound alpha-globin chains. Selection of patients and monitoring throughout the whole trial were done by the same clinicians. Quantitative expression of the clinical condition was done using a system scoring several outcome parameters. For a period of 52 months prior to starting treatment, the total score of severity for 59 evaluable patients was 1182 points (3068 patient-weeks), while for the 12,018 patient-weeks of the trial this parameter fell to only 82 points. Other observations of interest include the significant improvement of a group of patients with hepatic cholestasis, the development of leg ulcers possibly related to the treatment, and the dramatic increase of hemoglobin F, often in association with an increase of the total hemoglobin levels as a result of decreased hemolysis.

UI  - 11071188
TI  - Antisickling activity of sodium cromoglicate in sickle-cell disease.
AB  - Two groups of patients with sickle-cell disease were given a single dose of sodium cromoglicate by inhalation or nasal route. The striking decrease in sickle cells after treatment by both routes lends support to the role of sodium cromoglicate in sickle-cell disease treatment.

UI  - 10959903
TI  - Use of hydroxyurea in children ages 2 to 5 years with sickle cell disease.
AB  - The efficacy and side effects of hydroxyurea in young children with sickle cell disease are unknown. The authors followed-up eight young children (mean age 3.7 years) during therapy with hydroxyurea for an average of 137 weeks. Total and fetal hemoglobin levels rose with hydroxyurea therapy. Hospital admission rates and total hospital days decreased during hydroxyurea therapy. No unexpected toxicity occurred, and growth and development were unaffected. This pilot study suggests that hydroxyurea is safe and effective in young children with sickle cell disease.

UI  - 10815784
TI  - Cost-effectiveness of hydroxyurea in sickle cell anemia. Investigators of the Multicenter Study of Hydroxyurea in Sickle Cell Anemia.
AB  - The Multicenter Study of Hydroxyurea in Sickle Cell Anemia (MSH) demonstrated the efficacy of hydroxyurea in reducing the rate of painful crises compared to placebo. We used resource utilization data collected in the MSH to determine the cost-effectiveness of hydroxyurea. The MSH was a randomized, placebo-controlled double-blind clinical trial involving 299 patients at 21 sites. The primary outcome, visit to a medical facility, was one of the criteria to define occurrence of painful crisis. Cost estimates were applied to all outpatient and emergency department visits and inpatient hospital stays that were classified as a crisis. Other resources for which cost estimates were applied included hospitalization for chest syndrome, analgesics received, hydroxyurea dosing, laboratory testing, and clinic visits for management of patient care. Annualized differential costs were calculated between hydroxyurea- and placebo-receiving patients. Hospitalization for painful crisis accounted for the majority of costs in both arms of the study, with an annual mean of $12,160 (95% CI: $9,440, $14,880) for hydroxyurea and $17,290 (95% CI: $13,010, $21,570) for placebo. The difference in means was $5,130 (95% CI: $60, $10,200; P = 0.048). Chest syndrome was the next largest cost with a mean difference of $830 (95% CI: $-340, $2,000; P = 0.16). The hydroxyurea arm was also associated with lower costs for emergency department visits, transfusion, and use of opiate analgesics. In total, the annual average cost per patient receiving hydroxyurea was $16,810 (95% CI: $13,350, $20,270) and the annual average costs per patient receiving placebo was $22,020 (95% CI: $17,340, $26,710). The difference in means was $5,210 (95% CI: $-610, $11,030; P = 0.21). The cost of hydroxyurea with the more intensive monitoring required when using this drug appears to be more than offset by decreased costs for medical care of painful crisis and analgesic use. Although the total cost difference was not significant statistically, these results suggest that hydroxyurea therapy is cost-effective compared to placebo in the management of adult patients with sickle cell anemia. If hydroxyurea can prevent development of chronic organ damage, long-term savings may be even greater.

UI  - 10779038
TI  - Plasma homocysteine levels in sickle cell disease and the need for folate supplementation.
AB  - 

UI  - 10477679
TI  - Safety of hydroxyurea in children with sickle cell anemia: results of the HUG-KIDS study, a phase I/II trial. Pediatric Hydroxyurea Group.
AB  - Previous studies have determined the short-term toxicity profile, laboratory changes, and clinical efficacy associated with hydroxyurea (HU) therapy in adults with sickle cell anemia. The safety and efficacy of this agent in pediatric patients with sickle cell anemia has not been determined. Children with sickle cell anemia, age 5 to 15 years, were eligible for this multicenter Phase I/II trial. HU was started at 15 mg/kg/d and escalated to 30 mg/kg/d unless the patient experienced laboratory toxicity. Patients were monitored by 2-week visits to assess compliance, toxicity, clinical adverse events, growth parameters, and laboratory efficacy associated with HU treatment. Eighty-four children were enrolled between December 1994 and March 1996. Sixty-eight children reached maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and 52 were treated at MTD for 1 year. Significant hematologic changes included increases in hemoglobin concentration, mean corpuscular volume, mean corpuscular hemoglobin, and fetal hemoglobin parameters, and decreases in white blood cell, neutrophil, platelet, and reticulocyte counts. Laboratory toxicities typically were mild, transient, and were reversible upon temporary discontinuation of HU. No life-threatening clinical adverse events occurred and no child experienced growth failure. This Phase I/II trial shows that HU therapy is safe for children with sickle cell anemia when treatment was directed by a pediatric hematologist. HU in children induces similar laboratory changes as in adults. Phase III trials to determine if HU can prevent chronic organ damage in children with sickle cell anemia are warranted.

UI  - 10473885
TI  - Levels of endothelial, neutrophil and platelet-specific factors in sickle cell anemia patients during hydroxyurea therapy.
AB  - It has been shown that the clinical course of sickle cell (SS) patients can be ameliorated by administration of hydroxyurea (HU). Induction of hemoglobin F (HbF) is thought to be the mechanism responsible for clinical improvement in some patients. However, HU has a variable effect on HbF production and there exists no good correlation between the extent of HbF increase and clinical response. On the other hand, the degree of adherence of SS to vascular endothelium and neutrophil counts correlate well with clinical severity. Being a cytotoxic drug, used in myeloproliferative diseases, HU may alter proliferation among various cell lines. Moreover, HU has been reported to reduce red blood cell (RBC) adhesion receptor expression in young SS individuals and induces changes in endothelial cells in vitro. It should be conceived that in addition to its effects on HbF production, HU may change the clinical symptoms of SS patients by affecting the degree of adherence of different blood cells, by influencing the activity of endothelium as well as the activity of white blood cells (WBC) and platelets. To analyze whether several of the determinants of adhesion are modulated by HU treatment we studied the levels of endothelial activity (soluble vascular adhesion molecule-1, (sVCAM-1), interleukin-8 (IL-8), fibronectin, neutrophil activity (sL-selectin, sIL-6 receptor-alpha, myeloperoxidase) and platelet activity (von Willebrand factor) in relation to clinical symptoms, hematological data and HbF levels in 8 SS patients before and during 5 months of HU therapy. Steady state sVCAM-1 levels are increased compared to normal controls and a significant decrease is noted during HU treatment, suggesting a decrease in the interactions between RBC and vascular endothelium. The IL-8 levels are comparable to those in normal controls and remain unaffected by HU therapy. Intercurrent infection and crises reveal striking increases in IL-8 which are accompanied by leukocytosis, but otherwise the IL-8 levels do not correlate with hematological data. HU has no demonstrable effect on fibronectin or soluble neutrophil adhesion molecules, but the levels of myeloperoxidase decrease significantly while WBC counts do not, implying a reduction in neutrophil activity which may help attenuate the propagation phase of a vasoocclusive crisis.

UI  - 10398312
TI  - Effect of zinc supplementation on incidence of infections and hospital admissions in sickle cell disease (SCD).
AB  - Zinc deficiency is a common nutritional problem in adult sickle-cell disease (SCD) patients. Hyperzincuria and increased requirement of zinc due to continued hemolysis in SCD are probable bases for zinc deficiency in these patients. Zinc deficiency affects adversely T-helper1 (TH1) functions and cell mediated immunity and interleukin (IL)-2 production is decreased in zinc deficient subjects. We hypothesized that zinc supplementation will improve T-helper1 function and decrease incidence of infections in patients with SCD. We tested this hypothesis in 32 SCD subjects who were divided in three groups (Grs A, B, and C). Grs A (n = 11) and B (n = 10) were zinc deficient based on cellular zinc criteria and Gr C (n = 11) were zinc sufficient. Gr A subjects were observed for 1 year (baseline), following which they received zinc acetate (50 to 75 mg of elemental zinc orally daily) for 3 years. Gr B subjects were observed for 1 year (baseline), following which they received placebo for 1 year and then switched to zinc supplementation (50 to 75 mg of elemental zinc orally daily) for 2 years. Gr C subjects did not receive any intervention inasmuch as they were zinc sufficient. Prolonged zinc supplementation resulted in an increase in lymphocyte and granulocyte zinc (P = 0.0001), and an increase in interleukin-2 production (P = 0.0001), decreased incidence of documented bacteriologically positive infections (P = 0.0026), decreased number of hospitalizations and decreased number of vaso-occlusive pain crisis (P = 0.0001). The predominant pathogens isolated were staphylococci and streptococci involving the respiratory tract and aerobic gram-negative bacteria, particularly Escherichia coli, involving the urinary tract. Further confirmation of our observations will require prospective studies of zinc supplementation in a larger number of SCD patients.

UI  - 10389953
TI  - Effect of ketorolac in pediatric sickle cell vaso-occlusive pain crisis.
AB  - We were unable to demonstrate a synergistic analgesic effect for ketorolac in the treatment of pain from acute vaso-occlusive crisis in pediatric sickle cell disease. Further investigations involving larger samples of sickle cell patients may be needed to further define a role for ketorolac in the acute management of sickle cell vaso-occlusive pain.

UI  - 10326220
TI  - Effect of hydroxyurea in sickle cell anemia: a clinical trial in children and teenagers with severe sickle cell anemia and sickle cell beta-thalassemia.
AB  - This study evaluated the efficacy of hydroxyurea treatment in the prevention of vaso-occlusive crises among children and teenagers with severe sickle cell anemia and sickle cell beta-thalassemia. Nineteen children and young adults with severe sickle cell disease were enrolled to the hydroxyurea treatment trial. The incidence of vaso-occlusive crises, acute chest syndrome, hemolytic crises, splenic sequestration episodes, blood transfusions, and hospital days in the 2 years before hydroxyurea (HU) treatment were compared with the same parameters in the first 2 years of treatment. The patients received a mean dose of 21.3 mg/kg/day daily and were treated during a mean period of 40.3 +/- 14 months (range 20 to 68 months). Significant increases were observed after 1 month in the Hgb, MCV, MCH, and MCHC levels and were more notable after 3 months. The increase in the Hgb F level became important after 3 months of HU therapy and was highly significant (p < .001) beyond 6 months. No differences were observed in the RDW, reticulocyte count, Hgb S, and Hgb A2. Severe neutropenia was observed in one case. A decrease in the frequency of vaso-occlusive crises, acute chest syndrome, hemolytic crises, blood transfusions, and days spent in the hospital was demonstrated during the HU treatment period compared to the same period before. The clinical and laboratory response to HU was dramatic in severely affected sickle cell anemia (SCA) patients. The response to HU in children and teenagers with severe sickle cell anemia is similar to the response in adults, and no severe adverse effects were observed.

UI  - 10233426
TI  - Erythropoietic activity in patients with sickle cell anaemia before and after treatment with hydroxyurea.
AB  - In this project we have prospectively studied the erythropoietic activity in patients with sickle cell anaemia (SS) before and after treatment with hydroxyurea (HU). Some of the patients were enrolled in a double-blind placebo controlled trial of HU in patients with SS and others were enrolled in an open label study. Determinants of erythropoietic activity included the reticulocyte count, red blood cell (RBC) survival by the 51Cr method, plasma 59Fe clearance, plasma iron turnover (PIT), erythron transferrin uptake (ETU), RBC production/destruction rate, and RBC Fe utilization. Therapy with HU increased the mean corpuscular volume (MCV), haemoglobin (Hb)F, RBC survival and t1/2 59Fe clearance; it decreased the reticulocyte count, the white blood cell (WBC) count, ETU, and the PIT. Most of the changes in parameters of erythropoiesis could be explained by the increase in 51Cr RBC survival after therapy with HU. Together the data showed that in selected patients the net effect of HU on Hb level was a function of the difference between the suppressive effect of HU (decreased RBC production) and the increase in RBC survival. In the majority of patients who responded to HU, there was a preferential effect on RBC survival.

UI  - 10068649
TI  - Sustained induction of fetal hemoglobin by pulse butyrate therapy in sickle cell disease.
AB  - High levels of fetal hemoglobin (Hb F) protect from many of the complications of sickle cell disease and lead to improved survival. Butyrate and other short chain fatty acids were previously shown to increase Hb F production in erythroid cells in vitro and in animal models in vivo. However, butyrates are also known to inhibit the proliferation of many cell types, including erythroid cells. Experience with the use of butyrate in animal models and in early clinical trials demonstrated that the Hb F response may be lost after prolonged administration of high doses of butyrate. We hypothesized that this loss of response may be a result of the antiproliferative effects of butyrate. We designed a regimen consisting of intermittent or pulse therapy in which butyrate was administered for 4 days followed by 10 to 24 days with no drug exposure. This pulse regimen induced fetal globin gene expression in 9 of 11 patients. The mean Hb F in this group increased from 7.2% to 21.0% (P <.002) after intermittent butyrate therapy for a mean duration of 29.9 weeks. This was associated with a parallel increase in the number of F cells and F reticulocytes. The total hemoglobin levels also increased from a mean of 7.8 g/dL to a mean of 8.8 g/dL (P <.006). The increased levels of Hb F were sustained in all responders, including 1 patient who has been on pulse butyrate therapy for more than 28 months. This regimen, which resulted in a marked and sustained increase in Hb F levels in more than two thirds of the adult sickle cell patients enrolled in this study, was well tolerated without adverse side effects. These encouraging results require confirmation along with an appropriate evaluation of clinical outcomes in a larger number of patients with sickle cell disease.

UI  - 9668534
TI  - Hydroxyurea therapy in thalassemia.
AB  - The clinical effectiveness of Hydroxyurea in thalassemia is still controversial. The present paper puts together the authors' experience in two groups of patients with thalassemia intermedia and sickle cell/beta-thalassemia treated with varying dosages of hydroxyurea over several months. A third group received hydroxyurea along with recombinant human erythropoietin. Our observations are summarized in that treatment with hydroxyrea results in a significant increase of fetal hemoglobin with no change of the total hemoglobin levels. The drug causes also a considerable increase of the erythrocyte volume and hemoglobin content while the MCHC values remain unchanged. As a rule, and without objective criteria so far, patients state feeling better and having more energy. The authors postulate that this feeling may reflect the significant decrease of ineffective erythropoiesis resulting by the replacement of the poorly hemoglobinized, prematurely dying erythroid progenitor and red cell population by another population of cells with higher hemoglobin content and longer survival, the regeneration of which requires less energy and consumption. As expected, patients with sickle cell/beta-thalassemia have also fewer crises and painful episodes. The above findings are in keeping with the few available reports in the literature.

UI  - 9663818
TI  - Trying to improve compliance with prophylactic penicillin therapy in children with sickle cell disease.
AB  - Compliance with prophylactic antibiotic therapy in children with sickle cell disease is highly variable and its evaluation is problematic.

UI  - 9625578
TI  - Oral L-glutamine therapy for sickle cell anemia: I. Subjective clinical improvement and favorable change in red cell NAD redox potential.
AB  - Previously, we demonstrated that there is an increased utilization of glutamine by intact sickle red blood cells (RBC) in conjunction with nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD) metabolism in vitro. In this report, we describe the in vivo effect of L-glutamine supplementation on total NAD, nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide reduced (NADH), and NAD redox potential of sickle RBC. Seven adult sickle cell anemia patients participated in this study. The exclusion criteria were pregnancy, previous or current use of hydroxyurea, and transfusion within 3 months of initiation of the study. After proper consent, L-glutamine was started at a dose of 30 g/day administered orally. Fasting blood samples were drawn at baseline and after 4 weeks of therapy by routine phlebotomy for evaluation of RBC total NAD and NADH levels. We found significant changes in both the NADH level and NAD redox potential (ratio of NADH to NAD+ + NADH). NAD redox potential increased from 47.2 +/- 3.7% to 62.1 +/- 11.8% (P < 0.01). The NADH level increased from 47.5 +/- 6.3 to 72.1 +/- 15.1 nmol/ml RBC (P < 0.01). The total NAD level demonstrated an upward trend (from 101.2 +/- 16 to 116.4 +/- 14.7 nmol/ml RBC) but this was not statistically significant. Our data show that oral L-glutamine can significantly increase the NAD redox potential and NADH level in sickle RBC. These changes may decrease oxidative susceptibility of sickle RBC and result in clinical benefit.

UI  - 9437560
TI  - Effect of Depo-Provera or Microgynon on the painful crises of sickle cell anemia patients.
AB  - Forty-three homozygous (SS) female sickle cell anemic patients with a history of at least one painful crisis per month and desiring a reversible contraceptive were administered DMPA/3 months or Microgynon monthly. A third group of 16 surgically sterilized patients served as control. Patients were followed for 1 year to assess possible effects of the contraceptives on the patients' painful crises. No changes were observed in any of the groups in the hematological parameters. At the end of the study, 70% of the patients receiving DMPA were pain-free and only 16% of those still reporting painful crises rated them as intense. Patients receiving Microgynon also had an amelioration of the painful crises, although at a lower rate; after 12 months, 45.5% still experienced some crises. Although less marked than in the other groups, 50.5% of the control patients also reported an improvement of their painful crisis, which may be a result of closer medical care.

UI  - 9365450
TI  - Randomised trial of oral morphine for painful episodes of sickle-cell disease in children.
AB  - Oral, controlled-release morphine is a reliable, non-invasive alternative to continuous intravenous morphine for the management of painful episodes of sickle-cell disease in children.

UI  - 9315425
TI  - An extension of stochastic curtailment for incompletely reported and classified recurrent events: the Multicenter Study of Hydroxyurea in Sickle Cell Anemia (MSH).
AB  - The Multicenter Study of Hydroxyurea in Sickle Cell Anemia (MSH), a double-blind randomized clinical trial, compared the frequency of acute vaso-occlusive (painful) crises during 2 yr of follow-up in 299 patients randomly assigned to hydroxyurea or placebo. Most patients had more than one crisis; all crises reported were included in the primary outcome analysis. A total of 7,229 follow-up medical contact reports were classified as crises/not crises by a Crisis Review Committee. Because of the time required to report, document, and classify contacts, interim analyses were prepared with incomplete data. If a stopping boundary were crossed, early termination could be advised only after assessing the potential impact of the incomplete data. In an extension of stochastic curtailment methods, simulation procedures were used to estimate the probability of detecting differences when group crisis rates projected to the end of the study were compared using a rank test. To account for medical contacts not yet reported and the future occurrence of crises, Poisson process models assuming no treatment effect on crisis rates were used for these simulations. The number of unclassified contacts that would be classified as crises was simulated as a binomial random variable. These methods may be useful for interim monitoring in other studies of recurrent events with ongoing event reporting and classification.

UI  - 9312186
TI  - Oral magnesium supplements reduce erythrocyte dehydration in patients with sickle cell disease.
AB  - Intracellular polymerization and sickling depend markedly on the cellular concentration of sickle hemoglobin (Hb S). A possible therapeutic strategy for sickle cell disease is based on reducing the cellular concentration of Hb S through prevention of erythrocyte dehydration. The K-Cl cotransporter is a major determinant of sickle cell dehydration and is inhibited by increasing erythrocyte Mg content. We studied 10 patients with sickle cell disease before treatment and after 2 and 4 wk of treatment with oral Mg supplements (0.6 meq/kg/d Mg pidolate). Hematological parameters, erythrocyte Na, K, and Mg content, erythrocyte density, membrane transport of Na and K, and osmotic gradient ektacytometry were measured. We found significant increases in sickle erythrocyte Mg and K content and reduction in the number of dense sickle erythrocytes. Erythrocyte K-Cl cotransport was reduced significantly. We also observed a significant reduction in the absolute reticulocyte count and in the number of immature reticulocytes. Ektacytometric analysis showed changes indicative of improved hydration of the erythrocytes. There were no laboratory or clinical signs of hypermagnesemia. Mild, transient diarrhea was the only reported side effect. We conclude that oral Mg supplementation reduces the number of dense erythrocytes and improves the erythrocyte membrane transport abnormalities of patients with sickle cell disease.

UI  - 9292541
TI  - RheothRx (poloxamer 188) injection for the acute painful episode of sickle cell disease: a pilot study.
AB  - RheothRx (Glaxo Wellcome Inc, Research Triangle Park, NC; poloxamer 188) Injection is a nonionic surfactant with hemorrheologic properties that suggest it may be useful in treating acute painful episodes (vasoocclusive crises) of sickle cell disease (SCD). We conducted a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled pilot study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of poloxamer, formulated as RheothRx Injection, in 50 patients with SCD. Patients with moderate to severe painful episodes requiring parenteral analgesics were randomized to receive a 48-hour infusion of either RheothRx or placebo. Pain was assessed every 4 hours. Efficacy endpoints included: (1) painful episode duration, (2) days of hospitalization, (3) quantity of analgesics used, and (4) pain intensity scores. Three subgroups of patients were considered for efficacy analyses based on the actual duration of the study drug infusion and the completeness of pain score data collection. Compared with placebo and depending on the subgroup, RheothRx-treated patients showed a 16% to 45% decrease in duration of painful episodes, a 1- to 2-day reduction in hospital stay, a threefold to fivefold reduction in analgesic requirements, and a 1-point reduction (using a 5-point scale) in average pain intensity scores at 72 hours. RheothRx was well tolerated; no clinically significant differences were observed between treatments with respect to adverse experiences or other safety measures. In addition, there were no differences between treatment groups in the incidence of recurrent painful episodes. In this study, RheothRx significantly reduced total analgesic use and pain intensity and showed trends to shorter duration of painful episodes and total days of hospitalization. In patients with moderate to severe vasoocclusive pain, RheothRx was safe and may offer a therapeutic benefit.

UI  - 9317200
TI  - Hydroxyurea therapy for diverse pediatric populations with sickle cell disease.
AB  - Hydroxyurea (HU) is the first widely used treatment to have an impact on the severity of disease in adult patients with sickle cell anemia, but limited data are available for younger patients or those with variant genotypes. We reviewed 324 months of experience with HU in 16 patients from 5.3 to 18.4 years of age treated for 6 to 50 months. The major toxicity was reversible neutropenia. Linear growth continued unchanged, and all patients gained weight. Hematologic results were similar to those reported in adults with increases in mean corpuscular volume (MCV) and total and fetal hemoglobin (HbF). We noted that the maximal hematologic effects occurred at less than the maximum dose. Clinically, patients experienced an 80% reduction in episodes of acute chest syndrome and a reduced need for blood transfusion, as well as a 30% decrease in the number of hospitalizations for painful events during HU therapy compared with an equivalent number of months before HU. These highly statistically significant results confirmed the value of HU in ameliorating the severe clinical course of pediatric patients. Similar effects were observed in three patients with sickle beta degrees-thalassemia, sickle beta+-thalassemia, and S-O Arab. Recurrent acute splenic sequestration and progressive symptomatic osteonecrosis were observed during HU. Thus, HU may not prevent the development of complications once organ damage is present. The challenge remains to determine when and to which pediatric patients with sickle cell disease HU should be offered.

UI  - 9317197
TI  - Mechanism of action of hydroxyurea in the management of sickle cell anemia in adults.
AB  - In a randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial, treatment with hydroxyurea (HU) reduced crisis rates in adult patients with severe sickle cell anemia. No serious acute toxicity was seen, but the safety of long-term therapy could not be evaluated. The rationale for the use of HU was based on its ability to increase fetal hemoglobin (HbF) synthesis and the inhibitory effect of HbF on polymerization of sickle cell hemoglobin. Surprisingly, final HbF levels in patients assigned to HU did not differ markedly from their pretreatment levels (5% v 9%). As Steinberg et al showed, when HU patients were divided into quartiles based on final HbF levels, those in the highest quartile had an 18% mean HbF, while those in the lowest quartile had a mean of only 4%. Higher HbF levels were associated with lower crisis rates, but the association was not statistically significant. Further analyses suggested noncompliance of patients in the lower HbF quartiles in the later months of the study as a significant factor responsible for the difference in HbF levels. When HU patients were divided into quartiles based on their 2-year crisis rates, those with the fewest crises had lower neutrophil counts and higher mean corpuscular volumes (MCVs) and F-cell counts; similar but less marked changes were seen in patients assigned to placebo. Multivariable analyses showed a significant relationship between crisis rate and, in the early months of the study, F-cell count and, in later months, MCV. Lower neutrophil counts were associated with lower crisis rates in all months of the study. The HbF in F cells inhibits their sickling and decreases the likelihood of vaso-occlusion and infarction. If infarction does occur, lower neutrophil counts may limit the extent of tissue destruction and the severity of pain. Further study is needed to clarify the interplay of these two factors as mediators of the effect of HU in lowering crisis rates in sickle cell anemia.

UI  - 9256830
TI  - Three-year follow-up of hydroxyurea treatment in severely ill children with sickle cell disease. The French Study Group on Sickle Cell Disease.
AB  - Our data support the efficacy of HU in reducing painful events in children with sickle cell disease. Short- and middle-term tolerances are good. Thus, we think that HU can be given to children affected by frequent and severe painful crises. We recommend, however, very cautious use of this drug, because its long-term effects in children are still unknown.

UI  - 9176021
TI  - Effects of hydroxyurea administration on the body weight, body composition and exercise performance of patients with sickle-cell anaemia.
AB  - 1. As an ancillary study carried out during the recently completed Multicenter Study of Hydroxyurea, we examined the effect of hydroxyurea on the body weight, body composition and exercise capacity of adult patients with sickle-cell anaemia. 2. The subjects received either hydroxyurea (six males and four females) or placebo (eight males and six females). Data for each subject were generated during four separate 24 h admissions to the General Clinical Research Center. These admissions occurred at baseline and then at 6, 12 and 18 months after the start of study drug (hydroxyurea or placebo) administration. During each admission, body composition was measured by using a dual X-ray absorptiometer, and exercise testing was performed by cycle ergometry. Anaerobic performance was assessed according to a 'Wingate' protocol (20 s at maximal intensity against a cycling resistance of 7.5% body weight). Aerobic performance was examined using a steady state submaximal exercise protocol (10 min cycling time). 3. At baseline, no significant difference in any parameter was found between the hydroxyurea- and placebo-treated groups. At 18 months, the hydroxyurea-treated subjects exhibited an average weight gain of 3.16 kg. The mean weight gain in the placebo-treated subjects was 1.82 kg. Body composition analysis showed that the additional weight in both groups involved both lean and fat body mass components. In anaerobic performance, the subjects given hydroxyurea showed an increase in peak muscle power of 104.9 W. The placebo group also showed an increase, but theirs was a more modest gain of 57.7 W. The most marked improvement in anaerobic performance was observed in the hydroxyurea-treated men (P < 0.05). In aerobic performance, the hydroxyurea-treated subjects exhibited a decrease in peak heart rate response to a standardized workload of 15.2 beats/min, as compared with a decrease of only 4.3 beats/min in the placebo-treated patients. 4. Taken together, the overall weight gain, combined with increases in both anaerobic muscular performance and aerobic cardiovascular efficiency, provides objective data to support the subjective impression that hydroxyurea administration produces an improvement in the physical capacity of patients with sickle-cell anaemia.

UI  - 9028341
TI  - Fetal hemoglobin in sickle cell anemia: determinants of response to hydroxyurea. Multicenter Study of Hydroxyurea.
AB  - Hydroxyurea (HU) can increase fetal hemoglobin (HbF) in sickle cell anemia (HbSS). To identify determinants of the HbF response, we studied 150 HU-treated patients grouped by quartiles of change in HbF from baseline to 2 years. Half of the HU-assigned patients had long-term increments in HbF. In the top two quartiles, HbF increased to 18.1% and 8.8%. These patients had the highest baseline neutrophil and reticulocyte counts, and largest treatment-associated decrements in these counts. In the lower two quartiles, 2-year HbF levels (4.2% and 3.9%) and blood counts changed little from baseline. In the highest HbF response quartile, myelosuppression developed in less than 6 months, compliance was best, and final doses of HU were 15 to 22.5 mg/kg. All four quartiles had substantial increases of F cells in the first year. This was maintained for 2 years only in the top three quartiles. Leukocyte and reticulocyte counts decreased initially in all quartiles, but drifted back toward baseline levels in the lowest HbF response quartile. Initial HbF level and phenotype of the F-cell production (FCP) locus were not associated with HbF response, but absence of a Central African Republic (CAR) haplotype was. Bone marrow ability to withstand HU treatment may be important for sustained HbF increases during HU treatment of HbSS.

UI  - 9352741
TI  - Hydroxyurea therapy in sickle cell anemia patients in Curaao, The Netherlands Antilles.
AB  - We have treated 9 patients with sickle cell anemia (SS) with hydroxyurea (HU). All 9 patients carried 4 alpha-globin genes and the beta s-globin haplotypes 19/19 (Benin/Benin), except for 1 who had haplotype 19 together with type 3 (Benin/Senegal). Six patients received HU for 10 months and were again treated with the drug for 5 months after an interval of 1 year. One patient was given HU for 22 consecutive months. A record was kept of hematological and biochemical data, Hb F and G gamma levels, as well as possible clinical complications. Our data show that HU generally improves the hematological and biochemical values and the level of Hb F, and reduces painful crises in some patients. However, although the clinical symptoms improved in some patients during HU therapy, the older patients did not observe any changes in their general condition; the same is the case for the patient with haplotype 19/3. One patient also experienced life-threatening liver sequestration during treatment. We conclude that the selection of patients who may benefit from HU therapy needs further evaluation.

UI  - 8982148
TI  - Hydroxyurea and sickle cell anemia. Clinical utility of a myelosuppressive "switching" agent. The Multicenter Study of Hydroxyurea in Sickle Cell Anemia.
AB  - Painful crises in patients with sickle cell anemia are caused by vaso-occlusion and infarction. Occlusion of blood vessels depends on (at least) their diameter, the deformability of red cells, and the adhesion of blood cells to endothelium. Deoxygenated sickle cells are rigid because they contain linear polymers of hemoglobin S (Hb S); polymerization is highly concentration dependent, and dilution of Hb S by a nonsickling hemoglobin such as fetal hemoglobin (Hb F) would be expected to lead ultimately to a decrease in the frequency of painful crises. It might also be expected to decrease the severity of anemia, although the pathogenesis of anemia in sickle cell anemia (SS disease) is not clearly understood. Reversion to production of fetal rather than adult hemoglobin became practical with the discovery that HU was an orally effective and relatively safe "switching agent." Preliminary dose-ranging studies led to a double-blind randomized controlled clinical trial, the Multicenter Study of Hydroxyurea in Sickle Cell Anemia (MSH), designed to test whether patients treated with HU would have fewer crises than patients treated with placebo. The MSH was not designed to assess the mechanism(s) by which a beneficial effect might be achieved, but it was hoped that observations made during the study might illuminate that question. The 2 MSH treatment groups were similar to each other and were representative of African-American patients with relatively severe disease. The trial was closed earlier than expected, after demonstration that median crisis rate was reduced by almost 50% (2.5 versus 4.5 crises per year) in patients assigned to HU therapy. Hospitalizations, episodes of chest syndrome, and numbers of transfusions were also lower in patients treated with HU. Eight patients died during the trial, and treatment was stopped in 53. There were no instances of alarming toxicity. Patients varied widely in their maximum tolerated doses, but it was not clear that all were taking their prescribed treatments. When crisis frequency was compared with various clinical and laboratory measurements, pretreatment crisis rate and treatment with HU were clearly related to crisis rate during treatment. Pretreatment laboratory measurements were not associated with crisis rates during the study in either treatment group. It was not clear that clinical improvement was associated with an increase in Hb F. Crisis rates of the 2 treatment groups became different within 3 months. Mean corpuscular volumes (MCVs) and the proportion of Hb F containing red cells (F cells) rose, and neutrophil and reticulocyte counts fell, within 7 weeks. When patients were compared on the basis of 2-year crisis rates, those with lower crisis rates had higher F-cell counts and MCVs and lower neutrophil counts. Neutrophil, monocyte, reticulocyte, and platelet counts were directly associated, and F cells and MCV were inversely associated, with crisis rates in 3-month periods. In multivariable analyses, there was strong evidence of independent association of lower neutrophil counts with lower crisis rates. F-cell counts were associated with crisis rate only in the first 3 months of treatment; MCV showed an association over longer periods of time. Overall, the evidence that decreased neutrophil counts played a role in reducing crisis rates was strong. Increased F cells or MCV and evidence of cytoreduction by HU were also associated with decreased crisis rates, but no definitive statement can be made regarding the mechanism of action of HU because the study was not designed to address that question. Future studies should be designed to explore the mechanism of action of HU, to identify the optimal dosage regimen, and to study the effect of HU when combined with other antisickling agents.

UI  - 8888744
TI  - Transdermal fentanyl administration in children and adolescents with sickle cell pain crisis.
AB  - Improved understanding of the dose-effect relationship for TF in children and adolescents is necessary before adequate pain control can be achieved with this delivery system.

UI  - 8822914
TI  - Hydroxyurea for treatment of severe sickle cell anemia: a pediatric clinical trial.
AB  - Hydroxyurea (HU) enhances the synthesis of fetal hemoglobin (HbF) and can improve the clinical course of some adult patients with sickle cell anemia (SCA). In a randomized trial, we studied the biologic effects and the clinical benefit of HU in children and young adults with severe SCA. Twenty-five patients (median age, 9 years) were randomized to receive either HU (at the initial dosage of 20 mg/kg/d) or a placebo for 6 months and were then switched to the other arm for the next 6 months. Among the 22 evaluable patients (median age, 8 years), significant increases in HbF and mean corpuscular volume occurred during the HU treatment period. The white blood cell and reticulocytes counts decreased significantly, but these changes were not clinically relevant. Sixteen of 22 patients (73%) experienced a complete disappearance of events requiring hospitalization. The number of days of hospitalization as well as the number of hospitalizations for patients on HU, as compared with those for the patients receiving placebo, were significantly reduced. We conclude that treatment with HU in children and young adults is feasible, well-tolerated, and improves the clinical course of SCA. The long-term effects of HU require further investigation.

UI  - 8641410
TI  - Preliminary results with administration of recombinant human erythropoietin in sickle cell/beta-thalassemia patients during pregnancy.
AB  - 

UI  - 8922488
TI  - Piracetam is useful in the treatment of children with sickle cell disease.
AB  - The management of children suffering from sickle cell disease [sickle cell anaemia (SCA) and sickle cell beta degree-thalassaemia (S beta degree-thal.)] has been the concern of all clinicians caring for these patients. Several agents have been tried for treatment, often limited by toxic side effects. Piracetam (2-oxo-l-pyrrolidine acetamide, Nootropyl), a cyclic derivative of gamma-amino butyrate, used for the treatment of psychosenescent syndromes with no known side effects, was considered as a possible therapeutic agent for sickle cell disease. Interest was focused on the use of piracetam when it was shown that it had an antisickling effect, both in vivo and in vitro. We initiated multicentre double-blind investigations in two groups of children suffering from sickle cell disease ranging in age from 3-6 to 6-12 years. The total number of patients included in the study were 87 (SCA = 79 and Hb S beta degree-thal. = 8) in 13 centres in 10 different regions of Saudi Arabia. Coded boxes of the drugs were received from the company (UCB) and were administered as intravenous infusion during crises and orally during the follow-up, for a period of up to 1 year. After decoding the code at the end of the study, the patients were grouped into those receiving placebo (n = 39), i.e. controls, or piracetam (n = 48), i.e. study cases. In terms of age, weight, height and severity index, number of blood transfusions received and number of hospitalization, both groups were statistically homogenous. Data analysis showed that the clinical severity of the disease, the number of crises, the extent of hospitalization and the blood transfusion requirements significantly decreased during piracetam treatment (p < 0.001), though no statistically significant changes occurred in the placebo group. However, in the levels of the haematological and biochemical parameters no significant changes were documented in both groups. In addition, the improvement in the clinical presentation of the disease continued even several months after discontinuation of the drug in the majority of the children, as judged from the low severity index value. Though our results point to the recommendation that piracetam can be used for the treatment of children suffering from sickle cell disease, both SCA and S beta degree-thal, it is advisable to conduct long-term and close follow-up treatment programmes using piracetam to establish its therapeutic value particularly in adults and to ascertain that there are no long-term toxic side effects.

UI  - 8925656
TI  - Design of the multicenter study of hydroxyurea in sickle cell anemia. Investigators of the Multicenter Study of Hydroxyurea.
AB  - The Multicenter Study of Hydroxyurea in Sickle Cell Anemia is a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled trial to test whether hydroxyurea can reduce the rate of painful crises in adult patients who have at least three painful crises per year. The sample size of 299 patients yields at least 90% power to detect a 50% or greater reduction in crisis rate. Dosage starts at 15 mg/kg/day and is titrated to the patient's maximum tolerated dose up to 35 mg/kg/day. Placebo dosage is titrated in similar fashion to maintain blinding. Attempts are made to ascertain medical contacts for at least 2 years after study entry. The Core Laboratory, Treatment Distribution Center, and Data Coordinating Center collaborate to provide standardized monitoring for toxicity and dose adjustments. The Core Laboratory also reduces the possibility of inadvertent unmasking of treatment assignment during review of hematologic data in clinical centers. An independent Crisis Review Committee classifies clinical events to assure that outcome evaluations are standardized and unbiased by knowledge of treatment assignments. The Data and Safety Monitoring Board assures scientific integrity of the study, as well as the safety and ethical treatment of study patients. We expect the study to determine whether or not treatment with hydroxyurea can offer significant clinical benefit to patients with the most common hereditary disorder among African-Americans in the United States.

UI  - 7541604
TI  - Isobutyramide therapy in patients with sickle cell anemia.
AB  - We have administered Isobutyramide as a suspension over a period of 3 months, from a starting dose of 50 mg/kg/day up to 150 mg/kg/day, to four adult sickle cell (SS) anemia patients. The maximum dose was maintained for 3 weeks. The blood counts remained stable and the Hb F levels decreased slightly. The G gamma levels increased at the end of the trial, suggesting activation of the G gamma gene at the highest dose of Isobutyramide. Three patients showed a stable rate of hemolysis, while in one patient, an increase of lactate dehydrogenase occurred. None of the patients experienced pain crisis or organ-specific crisis, but all four complained about mild epigastric burning and a bitter taste. After the first month of treatment one patient complained about intolerable epigastric discomfort which was relieved by Omeprazole. Another patient complained about increasing dyspepsia in the 12th week leading to the termination of the trial. Oral Isobutyramide administration does not qualify as an effective treatment of SS patients.

UI  - 7715639
TI  - Effect of hydroxyurea on the frequency of painful crises in sickle cell anemia. Investigators of the Multicenter Study of Hydroxyurea in Sickle Cell Anemia.
AB  - Hydroxyurea therapy can ameliorate the clinical course of sickle cell anemia in some adults with three or more painful crises per year. Maximal tolerated doses of hydroxyurea may not be necessary to achieve a therapeutic effect. The beneficial effects of hydroxyurea do not become manifest for several months, and its use must be carefully monitored. The long-term safety of hydroxyurea in patients with sickle cell anemia is uncertain.

UI  - 7537527
TI  - Clinical and laboratory effects of long-term administration of hydroxyurea to patients with sickle-cell/beta-thalassaemia.
AB  - Hydroxyurea (HU), a widely used cytostatic, has been given over a long period of time to 14 adult Caucasian compound heterozygotes for beta s and various beta-thalassaemia genes. All patients had severe pain crises and other complications prior to receiving the drug. After 4-8 weeks on high 'sub-toxic' doses of HU all patients responded with a multifold increase of fetal haemoglobin (HbF) and a marked increase of MCV and MCH; they also felt significantly better and ceased having pains or other complaints. Haematological toxicity was minimal and rapidly reversible. Follow-up of the patients has now exceeded 100 weeks and goes up to 180 weeks in two of them. Pain crises have never recurred. Maintenance of high levels of HBF requires continuous administration of high doses of HU; whenever the latter were decrease in various attempts to avoid potential long-term toxicity, the observed changes gradually faded. The effect of HU in HbS/beta-thalassaemia may be better than that reported for homozygous HbS disease because the synthesized gamma-chains not only inhibit the sickling process but they also neutralize the noxious effects of the excess alpha-chains and cut down the ineffective erythropoiesis of the patients.

UI  - 7528572
TI  - Oral sodium phenylbutyrate therapy in homozygous beta thalassemia: a clinical trial.
AB  - Butyrate analogues have been shown to increase fetal hemoglobin (HbF) production in vitro and in vivo. Sodium phenylbutyrate (SPB), an oral agent used to treat individuals with urea-cycle disorders, has been shown to increase HbF in nonanemic individuals and in individuals with sickle cell disease. We have treated eleven patients with homozygous beta thalassemia (three transfusion dependent) and one sickle-beta-thalassemia patient with 20 g/d (forty 500-mg tablets) of SPB for 41 to 460 days. All patients showed an increase in the percent of F reticulocytes associated with treatment, but only four patients responded by increasing their Hb levels by greater than 1 g/dL (mean increase, 2.1 g/dL; range, 1.2 to 2.8 g/dL). None of the transfusion-dependent thalassemia subjects responded. Increase in Hb was associated with an increase in red blood cell number (mean increase, 0.62 x 10(12)/L), and mean corpuscular volume (mean increase, 6 fL). Changes in percent HbF, absolute HbF levels, or alpha- to non-alpha-globin ratios as measured by levels of mRNA and globin protein in peripheral blood did not correlate with response to treatment. Response to treatment was not associated with the type of beta-globin mutation, but baseline erythropoietin levels of greater than 120 mU/mL was seen in all responders and only two of eight nonresponders to SPB. Compliance with treatment was greater than 90% as measured by pill counts. Side effects of the drug included weight gain and/or edema caused by increase salt load in 2/12, transient epigastric discomfort in 7/12, and abnormal body odor in 3/12 subjects. Two splenectomized patients who were not on prophylactic antibiotics developed sepsis while on treatment. We conclude that SPB increases Hb in some patients with thalassemia, but the precise mechanism of action is unknown.

UI  - 7502628
TI  - On the use of hydroxyurea/erythropoietin combination therapy for sickle cell disease.
AB  - Seven sickle cell disease (SCD) patients [sickle cell anaemia = 4 (males 2, females 2, age range 18-40 years), and sickle cell beta (0)-thalassaemia = 3 (all females, age range 20-47 years)], suffering from a severe form of the disease were enrolled in a treatment protocol using hydroxyurea (HU) for up to 12 months followed by a combination therapy with HU and human recombinant erythropoietin (rHuEpo; using 400 U/kg/week i.v.) for 3-4 weeks. Following the withdrawal of rHuEpo the patients were maintained on HU alone. The patients were characterised on the basis of the 'severity index' prior to the initiation of the therapy. Haematological and relevant biochemical parameters, Hb A2 fetal haemoglobin (HbF), HbF cells, reticulocytes and platelet counts were estimated at least at three occasions to determine the mean and range of the parameters. During the treatment period the patients were followed every 2-4 weeks where the haematological and biochemical parameters were assessed. The results were separately analysed and mean +/- SD were obtained for each parameter at the end of each protocol. The statistical significance of the difference in the results obtained on treatment and the baseline results was examined using the paired t test. No toxic side effects of HU and rHuEpo (as judged from reduction in platelet and white blood cell count) were documented during and after the whole period of treatment. The patients showed a significant clinical improvement. Total haemoglobin, haematocrit, red cell count, HbF and HbF cells increased, while white blood cells, reticulocyte counts and bilirubin level decreased. Platelet count decreased but remained within the normal range. The results revealed that 5 of the patients on HU treatment showed a significant increase in the HbF level and HbF cells, while 2 patients (1 sickle cell anaemia and 1 Hb S/beta(0)-thalassaemia patient) did not and were considered as 'non-responders'. The rHuEpo and HU combination therapy elevated the HbF level, with a varying degree, in all patients except 2, who had already reached a high HbF level and showed a decrease in HbF during the rHuEpo protocol. Variable individual response to both HU and rHuEpo therapy was a common feature. We recommend the use of HU for the treatment of SCD and a combination therapy using HU and rHuEpo for the non-responders.

UI  - 8107739
TI  - High-dose intravenous methylprednisolone therapy for pain in children and adolescents with sickle cell disease.
AB  - A short course of high-dose methylprednisolone decreased the duration of severe pain in children and adolescents with sickle cell disease, but patients who received methylprednisolone had more rebound attacks after therapy was discontinued. On balance, corticosteroids are promising as an adjunct to supportive therapy for painful episodes in children and adolescents with sickle cell disease.

UI  - 7508689
TI  - Experimental therapy of sickle cell disease. Use of hydroxyurea.
AB  - Features of our previous study and results of the present trial may be helpful in defining indications for bone marrow transplantation in children with sickle cell disease.

UI  - 8121319
TI  - Improvement of microcirculation abnormalities in sickle cell patients upon buflomedil treatment.
AB  - The efficacy of the vasoactive compound buflomedil on previously described microcirculation abnormalities observed in sickle cell disease (SCD) was investigated using bulbar conjunctival angioscopy (BCA) and laser doppler flux metering. Eleven sickle cell disease patients at steady state were studied in a double-blind randomized parallel-versus-placebo study (5 patients were given placebo and 6 patients received 600 mg buflomedil per day for 21 days after a washout period of 15 days). The blood flux score measured by BCA improved, indicating reduced entrapment of sickle red blood cells. There was a striking improvement of reactive alterations of vasomotion in the buflomedil group, particularly in postocclusive reactive hyperemia; the half return time was also significantly reduced. These results encourage further studies with buflomedil to investigate long-term effects of this compound in SCD, potential prevention of acute vaso-occlusive events, and degenerative complications.

UI  - 8332152
TI  - A randomized study of outpatient treatment with ceftriaxone for selected febrile children with sickle cell disease.
AB  - With the use of conservative eligibility criteria, at least half the febrile episodes in children with sickle cell disease can be treated safely on an outpatient basis, with substantial reductions in cost.

UI  - 8320490
TI  - Iron chelation by deferoxamine in sickle cell patients with severe transfusion-induced hemosiderosis: a randomized, double-blind study of the dose-response relationship.
AB  - Transfusion-induced hemosiderosis is a serious and potentially life-threatening complication for some patients with sickle cell anemia. The use of high-dose intravenous deferoxamine (DFO) has become widespread in spite of a paucity of published data on safety and efficacy. We report a randomized double-blind study of the dose-response relationship of intravenous DFO in six subjects with sickle cell anemia and severe transfusion-induced hemosiderosis (serum ferritin 4100 to 14,176 ng/ml). Each subject received three different doses of intravenous DFO for 3 days each while consuming a constant diet. Total iron excretion (urine and fecal) was 91% greater at 180 mg/kg/day DFO than at 60 mg/kg/day DFO, and fecal iron excretion became a relatively larger proportion of total excretion at higher doses. Subsequent treatment for 3 months with 150 mg/kg/day DFO caused a 33% to 60% reduction in serum ferritin and demonstrable improvement in hepatic function in all patients. No toxicity was encountered, but DFO at 180 mg/kg/day was associated with a significant increase in fecal zinc excretion when compared with that observed at lower doses.

UI  - 8293700
TI  - Clinical trial of riboflavin in sickle cell disease.
AB  - The effect of riboflavin supplementation (5mg twice daily for 8 weeks) on reduced blood glutathione (GSH) and iron status was assessed in 18 patients with sickle cell disease (SCD-HbSS). Twelve SCD patients and 13 normal (Hb-AA) subjects served as the control. The total iron binding capacity (TIBC) and serum ferritin (SF) were significantly higher (p < 0.01), but GSH level, haemoglobin and transferrin saturation (TS) were significantly lower (p < 0.001) in SCD patients than in normal subjects. The administration of riboflavin elicited a significant increase (p < 0.01) in serum iron and TS but a non significant increase in SF and circulating Hb. The GSH level varied little in riboflavin supplemented but decreased significantly in unsupplemented SCD. The disparity in GSH concentration might reflect availability of FAD for regeneration of GSH from glutathione. Likewise, the haematological improvement in the supplemented group supports the assertion that riboflavin enhances erythropoiesis. For an effective management of SCD in Africa, a closer attention should be directed to the riboflavin status in haemolytic disorders.

UI  - 7680002
TI  - Pharmacological modification of hemoglobin F expression in sickle cell anemia: an update on hydroxyurea studies.
AB  - The most studied pharmacological intervention in sickle cell anemia aiming at elevating HbF expression is the use of hydroxyurea. At the present time the experience has been that after 1 year of treatment with maximum tolerated doses (MTD) all patients showed increases of percent HbF, with a mean of 15% HbF, without apparent side effects besides the reversible ones observed during the process of attaining the MTD. The question of efficacy is presently being investigated by a multicenter placebo controlled double blind clinical trial that involves more than 20 sites. The goal of the study is to determine if hydroxyurea can decrease the incidence of painful crises by 50%. Results of this study are not expected before the end of 1993.

UI  - 7677966
TI  - A short-term trial of butyrate to stimulate fetal-globin-gene expression in the beta-globin disorders.
AB  - In patients with beta-hemoglobinopathies butyrate, a natural fatty acid, can significantly and rapidly increase fetal-globin production to levels that can ameliorate beta-globin disorders. Further trials of this class of compounds are warranted to determine long-term tolerance and efficacy in patients with sickle cell anemia or beta-thalassemia.

UI  - 8417806
TI  - F reticulocyte response in sickle cell anemia treated with recombinant human erythropoietin: a double-blind study.
AB  - Studies on baboons and preliminary observations in three patients with sickle cell anemia (SS) suggested that high doses of pulse administered recombinant human erythropoietin (rHuEPO) stimulate F-reticulocyte production. We now report on the administration of rHuEPO in a double-blind format to ascertain frequency of response and potential precipitation of side effects. Ten patients were enrolled, but one was discontinued due to the indication of a blood transfusion. Of the other nine, five received rHuEPO in escalating doses (from 400 to 1,500 U per kg twice daily [BID] per week), alternating with a placebo, in blinded fashion. The second group, consisting of four patients, followed an identical protocol (except starting dose was 1,000 U/Kg, BID per week) and were iron supplemented during treatment. The criterion of response was a transient doubling (as a minimum) of the steady-state F-reticulocyte level. We found that none of the five patients in the first group responded to rHuEPO, and two of them became iron deficient, as judged by a significant decrease in ferritin. Of the second group, four patients responded with F-reticulocyte increases. In three patients, open label administration of rHuEPO confirmed the effect. We observed seven painful episodes during this study, two during the EPO administration and five during the placebo arm. Three patients were phlebotomized because the hemoglobin level increased 1.5 g/dL more than steady-state levels. Of the six patients followed-up by percent dense cell determinations, one exhibited increased levels during periods of the treatment, whereas the other five showed no change. No anti-rHuEPO antibodies were detected. We conclude that rHuEPO can stimulate F-reticulocyte response in some patients with sickle cell anemia, without apparent negative clinical side effects. The state of iron stores may be critical. Whether higher doses of rHuEPO and/or a different regimen might induce sustained F cells and fetal hemoglobin increases remains to be determined.

UI  - 1379376
TI  - Hydroxyurea and erythropoietin therapy in sickle cell anemia.
AB  - Hydroxyurea has been shown to increase fetal hemoglobin (Hb F) production in patients with sickle cell disease and therefore has the potential to alleviate both the hemolytic and vaso-occlusive manifestations of the disease. Preliminary evidence indicates that recombinant human erythropoietin (rhEpo) may also induce Hb F. Three sickle cell anemia patients were treated with escalating doses of intravenous rhEpo and, subsequently, with daily oral hydroxyurea. After the optimal hydroxyurea dose was attained, rhEpo was added again. Two additional patients were treated with hydroxyurea alone. Treatment with rhEp, either alone or in combination with hydroxyurea, had no significant effect on the percentage of F reticulocytes or F cells. In contrast, hydroxyurea treatment was associated with a 1.5-fold to sevenfold increase in F cells and a 2.3- to 27-fold increase in the percentage of Hb F. In the three patients whose response reached a plateau, hydroxyurea treatment was associated with lessened hemolysis, decreased serum bilirubin and lactate dehydrogenase levels, and prolonged 51chromium-labeled RBC survival. Hydroxyurea treatment also resulted in decreased numbers of irreversibly sickled cells and in decreased sickling at partial oxygen saturation, increased oxygen affinity, increased total RBC cation content, and diminished potassium:chloride co-transport. All five patients treated with hydroxyurea experienced a decrease in severity and frequency of painful sickle crises. This study confirms that hydroxyurea therapy increases Hb F production and provides objective evidence of a significant reduction in hemolytic rate and intracellular polymerization. In contrast, rhEpo, either alone or in combination with hydroxyurea, offered no measurable benefit. Based on these encouraging preliminary data, large-scale, controlled clinical trials are warranted to study the safety and efficacy of hydroxyurea in the treatment of sickle cell disease.

UI  - 1375104
TI  - Hydroxyurea: effects on hemoglobin F production in patients with sickle cell anemia.
AB  - Patients with sickle cell anemia were treated with daily doses of hydroxyurea, to assess pharmacokinetics, toxicity, and increase in fetal hemoglobin (Hb) production in response to the drug. Plasma hydroxyurea clearances were not a useful guide to maximum tolerated doses of the drug. The mean daily single oral dose that could be maintained for at least 16 weeks was 21 mg/kg (range, 10 to 35 mg/kg). Among 32 patients, last HbF levels were 1.9% to 26.3% (mean, 14.9%) with increases in HbF over initial values of 1.4% to 20.2% (mean, 11.2%). The most significant predictors of last HbF were last plasma hydroxyurea level, initial white blood count and initial HbF concentration. Last HbF was not related to beta globin haplotype or alpha globin gene number. No serious toxicity was encountered. Clinically significant bone marrow depression was avoided, and chromosome abnormalities after 2 years of treatment were no greater than those observed before treatment. The period of observation has been too short to evaluate the risk of carcinogenesis. Patient's red cells developed striking macrocytosis. Median red cell Hb concentrations did not change. Hb concentrations increased, on average 1.2 g/dL, but serum erythropoietin levels increased. Patients' body weights increased, and some returned to work or school, but no conclusions regarding therapeutic efficacy could be drawn from this uncontrolled open-label study.

UI  - 1713911
TI  - Hydroxyurea as treatment for sickle cell anemia.
AB  - Hydroxyurea may be the most promising drug suggested thus far as a treatment for patients with sickle cell anemia, but its safety and efficacy remain unproved, and it probably will not be evaluable for several years. It is not "the answer" for the disease, it seems likely that crises will not be eliminated by treatment, and at this time its use should be reserved for seriously affected adult patients who can participate in a controlled clinical trial. Every hematologist, internist, or pediatrician sees a few patients who are so severely afflicted by sickle cell anemia that their lives seem totally blighted. It is very tempting to consider treating them with hydroxyurea, because the drug is available in any pharmacy, but it is equally important to consider whether the treatment would accomplish any more than treating the physician's own sense of futility, or making the patient feel that "something was being done." If hydroxyurea were as safe as folic acid, treatment for these purposes would be reasonable. It is not, but its use may still be appropriate (although illegal unless used under an Investigational New Drug Agreement, because its use for this purpose is not approved by the FDA). Whether or not it is legal, prescription of hydroxyurea for patients with sickle cell anemia would be ethical or proper only if the potential risks, the variability of the Hb F response, and the lack of proof of clinical efficacy were clearly explained to potential recipients.

UI  - 1705407
TI  - Pharmacologic manipulation of fetal hemoglobin. Update on clinical trials with hydroxyurea.
AB  - 

UI  - 2635446
TI  - Double-blind randomised clinical trial of pentoxiphyllin in vaso-occlusive sickle cell crisis.
AB  - Frequent painful sickle cell crisis leads to a high number of active days lost due to morbidity or mortality. Only one of the specific drugs has been shown to be efficacious in a controlled clinical trial in the USA. The efficacy and the appropriateness of a drug acting on the erythrocytic membrane, pentoxiphyllin, was investigated in a randomised, double blinded clinical trial in the treatment of acute incapacitating crisis. In the 36 patients studied in a rural hospital in Togo (West Africa) where sickle cell disease is frequent (0.51% of all births), the mean (standard deviation = SD) duration of inpatient treatment was significantly shorter in the actively treated group active drug: 77.6 (40.19) hours, placebo: 102.4 (25.31) hours, difference between means: 24.8 (95% confidence intervals (= 95% CI) 2.02-47.5) hours); p = 0.03. This marked effect of active treatment was evident during the first 48 hours only. The suitability of this therapeutic regime within the studied area is discussed.

UI  - 2691231
TI  - Preliminary trial of minidose heparin prophylaxis for painful sickle cell crises.
AB  - Four patients with well-documented severe recurrent painful sickle cell crises received 12-month courses of self-administered minidose heparin (5000-7500 units every 12 hours). Patients were evaluated weekly or bi-weekly for symptoms and signs of sickle crises. The observations were compared with identical observations during 12 months off heparin (control). Prior to starting heparin, baseline laboratory values were established, including hematocrits, platelet counts, and plasma coagulation factors. Bone density was evaluated by radiologic measurement of metacarpal cortical width and by forearm transmission osteodensitometry. Laboratory values were repeated at each visit; bone density was reevaluated every 6 months. At each visit clinical status for the preceding 1-2 weeks was classified as: no pain (I), minor pain controllable by non-prescription medications (II), pain requiring office or emergency room admissions for parenteral narcotics (III), hospitalized for about 3 days for pain crisis (IV). One patient completed a single 2-year cycle; one patient completed 2 cycles (followed 4 years), and 2 patients have undertaken 3 cycles (followed greater than or equal to 6 years). No treatment-related complications occurred requiring discontinuation of heparin. Thrombocytopenia was not observed. There was no evidence of progressive osteopenia. All patients improved while receiving heparin; 1 moderately, 3 markedly. Cumulative data (8.7 patient years on heparin, 12 control years) revealed a 73% reduction in days of hospitalization per year and 74% reduction in hours spent in emergency rooms per year during heparin administration. Pretreatment pain patterns recurred when heparin was discontinued.

UI  - 2694097
TI  - Pentoxifylline (Trental) has no significant effect on laboratory parameters in sickle cell disease.
AB  - The possible effect of pentoxifylline (Trental) in sickle celle disease was tested in 2 clinical trials: a controlled double-blinded intravenous study involving patients hospitalized with painful crises and an ublinded 5-month oral study in steady state patients. In the intravenous trial 29 painful episodes were treated in 16 patients. Complete blood counts, serum chemistries, red cell density gradients, intracellular pH, p50, whole blood viscosity, plasma viscosity and red cell distribution widths were monitored daily during the hospital admission. We confirmed the decrease of dense red cells during crisis and found, in addition, the related significant decrease in whole blood p50. There were no major differences in any of these parameters when pentoxifylline was compared to placebo for each individual day. When the data was examined over time, minor differences emerged. The red cell distribution width, the number of cells in density fraction SS2 (discocytes) and the plasma viscosity were all slightly higher over time in the pentoxifylline group than in the control group. In the oral group 23 patients were monitored for the same parameters on seven visits during a five month period. Administration of oral pentoxifylline produced no changes from baseline for all parameters examined except for a statistically significant, but minor, increase in plasma viscosity demonstrable for these patients during one visit only. We conclude that pentoxifylline has little effect on laboratory parameters in sickle cell disease.

UI  - 2476061
TI  - Chemotherapy and hemoglobin F synthesis in sickle cell disease.
AB  - 

UI  - 3345339
TI  - Is there a role for selective vasodilation in the management of sickle cell disease?
AB  - To test the hypothesis that microvascular obstruction to blood flow at the level of the arteriole may be significant in individuals with sickle cell anemia, the ophthalmologic effects of orally administered nifedipine were monitored in 11 steady-state patients. Three patients with evidence of acute peripheral retinal arteriolar occlusion displayed a prompt reperfusion of the involved segment. Two other patients showed fading of retroequatorial red retinal lesions. Color vision performance was improved in six of the nine patients tested. The majority of patients also demonstrated a significant decrease in the amount of blanching of the conjunctiva which reflects improved blood flow to this frequently involved area. Such improvements were not observable in a control group of untreated stable sickle cell subjects. These findings support the hypothesis that inappropriate vasoconstriction or frank vasospasm may be a significant factor in the pathogenesis of the microvascular lesions of sickle cell disease and, further, that selective microvascular entrapment inhibition may offer an additional strategy to the management of this disorder. We believe a larger, placebo-controlled study with nifedipine and similar agents is warranted.

UI  - 3333162
TI  - Placebo controlled double-blind study of pentoxifylline in sickle cell disease patients.
AB  - Sixty patients (37 males, 23 females, age range 7 to 34 years) suffering from sickle cell disease were treated with pentoxifylline (1200 mg/day per os, Trental 400 t.i.d.) or placebo in a double-blind randomized study of six week duration. Observation of pain frequency, intensity and duration of pain events as well as determination of various laboratory and hematologic parameters were maintained on weekly or biweekly basis, respectively, throughout the study. At the end of the trial the number of patients (14) with pain periods and the number of pain events (57) and the mean duration of pain events (4.1 days) in the drug group were significantly better than in the placebo group with 25 patients with pain, 219 pain events and 8.8 days mean pain duration. Hematocrit, red cell count, hemoglobin and platelet aggregation showed slight but significant positive changes with no corresponding alteration with placebo. The over all assessment of the therapeutic response showed 21 clearly improved patients with pentoxifylline compared to 10 such patients with placebo (p less than 0.05). Two patients on pentoxifylline and four on placebo experienced transient side effects of nausea and gastric intolerance.

UI  - 3521279
TI  - Antioxidants in sickle cell disease: the in vitro effects of ascorbic acid.
AB  - The authors examined the ability of antioxidants to prevent in vitro oxidant damage to the sickle red blood cell (RBC). One millimolar ascorbic acid and alpha-mercaptopropionylglycine significantly (p less than 0.005) protected against RBC Heinz body formation during incubation with acetylphenylhydrazine, while cysteine, cysteamine, and methionine did not. The effect of ascorbic acid was concentration dependent with concentrations as low as 0.1 mM having significant antioxidant effects. Ascorbic acid protected the RBC against hydrogen peroxide induced hemolysis as well (p less than 0.05). Ascorbic acid had a significant stimulatory effect on the rate of glucose oxidation by the pentose phosphate shunt (PPS), especially in the sickle RBC. Ascorbic acid did not protect the RBC from a patient with chronic hemolytic anemia due to G6PDTorrance from Heinz body formation, suggesting that an intact PPS is necessary for ascorbic acid to express its antioxidant properties. These data suggest that clinical trials should be undertaken to examine the efficacy of ascorbic acid in the treatment of SCD.

UI  - 3516257
TI  - A collaborative, double-blind randomized study of cetiedil citrate in sickle cell crisis.
AB  - We have recently completed a double-blind, placebo-controlled, noncrossover study, the goal of which was to determine whether cetiedil citrate (cetiedil) could affect the course of vaso-occlusive crises in sickle cell disease. Patients, who presented to the emergency room at least 4 but no more than 24 hours after the onset of a painful vasoocclusive crisis severe enough to require hospitalization, were considered candidates for the study. Each patient received either placebo or cetiedil at one of the following three dosages: 0.2, 0.3, or 0.4 mg/kg body weight. The assigned drug dosage was given as a 30 minute intravenous infusion every 8 hours for 4 consecutive days. A total of 67 patients was enrolled in the study. Cetiedil, at its highest dosage (0.4 mg/kg body weight), was found to be significantly superior to placebo both in reducing the number of painful sites present on all 4 treatment days and in shortening the total time in crisis. No serious adverse reactions were observed during the course of the study. We conclude that cetiedil, given at a dosage of 0.4 mg/kg body weight, is therapeutically advantageous for sickle cell crisis.

UI  - 2870317
TI  - Effect of BW12C on oxygen affinity of haemoglobin in sickle-cell disease.
AB  - Eight subjects with sickle-cell disease in the symptom-free steady-state received a single one-hour infusion of the new anti-sickling agent BW12C on a total of eleven occasions. A dose-dependent increase in wholeblood oxygen affinity was observed, resulting from the action of BW12C in stabilising the oxy-conformation of haemoglobin and causing a left shift of the oxygen saturation curve. At the highest dose given (20 mg/kg bodyweight), up to 23% of haemoglobin was modified to a BW12C-reacted high-affinity form without evidence of tissue hypoxia. There was biochemical and rheological evidence for a transient decrease in haemolytic rate.

UI  - 3512147
TI  - A single-dose pharmacokinetic study of the antisickling agent cetiedil.
AB  - Cetiedil citrate is an antisickling agent shown to be effective in reducing the severity and duration of acute sickle cell crisis. With the use of a sensitive GC/MS assay, the pharmacokinetic profile of cetiedil was studied in normal men and in men with sickle cell anemia who were not in crisis at the time of study. A peak cetiedil concentration of 70 to 200 ng/ml was found immediately after a 30-minute drug infusion. The plasma level then gradually declined to approximately 10 ng/ml during a 3-hour distributive phase. Computer analysis of the data was most consistent with a three-compartment model. No pharmacokinetic differences were found between the normal men and the subjects with sickle cell. Because the cetiedil plasma levels achieved during this in vivo study are well below concentrations that exhibit antisickling activity in vitro, additional clinical studies will be necessary before an optimal dosing regimen can be established.

UI  - 2409873
TI  - Progress toward increasing fetal hemoglobin production in man: experience with 5-azacytidine and hydroxyurea.
AB  - 

UI  - 6399024
TI  - A pilot study: an open clinical trial of pentoxiphylline in patients with painful sickle cell crises.
AB  - 

UI  - 6205021
TI  - Hydroxyurea enhances fetal hemoglobin production in sickle cell anemia.
AB  - Hydroxyurea, a widely used cytotoxic/cytostatic agent that does not influence methylation of DNA bases, increases fetal hemoglobin production in anemic monkeys. To determine its effect in sickle cell anemia, we treated two patients with a total of four, 5-d courses (50 mg/kg per d, divided into three oral doses). With each course, fetal reticulocytes increased within 48-72 h, peaked in 7-11 d, and fell by 18-21 d. In patient I, fetal reticulocytes increased from 16.0 +/- 2.0% to peaks of 37.7 +/- 1.2, 40.0 +/- 2.0, and 32.0 +/- 1.4% in three successive courses. In patient II the increase was from 8.7 +/- 1.2 to 50.0 +/- 2.0%. Fetal hemoglobin increased from 7.9 to 12.3% in patient I and from 5.3 to 7.4% in patient II. Hemoglobin of patient I increased from 9.0 to 10.5 g/dl and in patient II from 6.7 to 9.9 g/dl. Additional single-day courses of hydroxyurea every 7-20 d maintained the fetal hemoglobin of patient I t 10.8-14.4%, and the total hemoglobin at 8.7-10.8 g/dl for an additional 60 d. The lowest absolute granulocyte count was 1,600/mm3; the lowest platelet count was 390,000/mm3. The amount of fetal hemoglobin per erythroid burst colony-forming unit (BFU-E)-derived colony cell was unchanged, but the number of cells per BFU-E-derived colony increased. Although examination of DNA synthesis in erythroid marrow cells in vitro revealed no decreased methylcytidine incorporation, Eco RI + Hpa II digestion of DNA revealed that hypomethylation of gamma-genes had taken place in vivo after treatment. This observation suggests that hydroxyurea is a potentially useful agent for the treatment of sickle cell anemia and that demethylation of the gamma-globin genes accompanies increased gamma-globin gene activity.

UI  - 6388012
TI  - A double-blind trial of ticlopidine in sickle cell disease.
AB  - Baseline studies of 111Indium oxine labelled platelet life-span, platelet alpha-granule release products, beta-thromboglobulin (beta TG) and platelet factor 4 (PF4), and factor VIII related activities were performed on 9 asymptomatic patients with sickle cell disease, who were subsequently randomised in a prospective double-blind trial of ticlopidine (250 mg. b. d.) or placebo for one month and the investigations repeated. Control studies indicated that 5 of the 9 patients had shortened platelet survivals: mean beta TG (50.8 ng/ml) and PF4 (19.5 ng/ml), factor VIII:C (283.4 i.u./dl) and factor VIIIR:AG (168.7 u/dl) levels were raised. Ticlopidine treatment did not significantly improve platelet life-span or factor VIII levels, though it was associated with reduced values of beta TG and PF4. One patient taking ticlopidine developed an infarctive sickle crisis. Although ticlopidine blocked platelet activation, this alone did not improve platelet survival or prevent sickle crisis: in view of evidence of platelet activation in sickle cell disease, however, a longer trial of prophylactic antiplatelet drugs might be warranted.

UI  - 6433636
TI  - Treatment of sickle cell diseases with aspirin.
AB  - The effects of long-term aspirin for the treatment of sickle cell disease were compared with placebo in a double-blind trial completed by 29 patients. Each patient was submitted to a 5-month period of treatment with aspirin (median dose 31 mg/kg/day) and an equivalent period with placebo. No clinical or laboratory differences were observed between the two phases, including the frequency of painful crises and infectious episodes, hemoglobin concentration, PCV, reticulocytes, Hb F, bilirubin, irreversibly sickled cells, filterability of red cell, sickling in vitro and hypoxia-induced potassium loss.

UI  - 6385654
TI  - Overview: clinical experiences with ticlopidine.
AB  - 

UI  - 6385647
TI  - Clinical and biological double-blind-study of ticlopidine in preventive treatment of sickle-cell disease crises.
AB  - 

UI  - 6201079
TI  - Molecular genetics of the sickling syndromes: evolution of new strategies for improved diagnosis.
AB  - This survey is intended to illustrate some major areas relevant to the diagnosis and treatment of sickle cell syndromes that have benefited by the input of molecular genetic approaches. The development of gene mapping techniques has permitted the direct examination of the effect of co-inheritance of alpha-thalassemia and sickle cell anemia on clinical severity, providing, for the first time, a direct strategy for investigation of the clinical heterogeneity of these syndromes. In addition, antenatal diagnosis of these disorders is now best done by direct gene mapping whenever appropriate facilities are available. Treatment by manipulation of gamma-globin gene expression has been shown to be an effective means of achieving at least partial reversal of the hemoglobin F to hemoglobin A switch. Whether the magnitude of this reversal is sufficient to interfere with the clinical phenotype of sickle cell disease remains to be determined. Moreover, the agent currently available to accomplish this goal, 5-azacytidine, remains unsuitable for wide-spread clinical application for a variety of reasons. Nonetheless, the molecular geneticist has already demonstrated that desirable effects can be achieved by building on the knowledge of globin gene physiology. This knowledge is best acquired by application of the concepts and methodologies of molecular genetics.

UI  - 6650492
TI  - Treatment of acute sickle cell crises with a vasopressin analogue.
AB  - Eight patients with sickle cell anemia were treated for acute painful crises with DDAVP and intravenous fluids; five were treated with placebo and the same regimen of fluid administration. Although hyponatremia was produced in both treatment groups, duration of hospitalization did not differ between them, nor did it differ from concurrent hospitalization of other patients who received conventional treatment. Safe induction of hyponatremia required intensive laboratory surveillance, and serum sodium could be lowered without use of DDAVP. These data suggest that a controlled trial hyponatremia for acute sickle cell crises should not be performed.

UI  - 6671426
TI  - Ascorbic acid in sickle cell disease: results of a pilot therapeutic trial.
AB  - 

UI  - 6347243
TI  - A trial of folate supplementation in children with homozygous sickle cell disease.
AB  - A double blind controlled trial of supplementation with folic acid has been performed in 117 children with homozygous sickle cell (SS) disease aged 6 months to 4 years over a 1 year period. No megaloblastic change was observed in either group. At the end of the study period the folate supplemented group showed no significant differences in haemoglobin, growth characteristics, or in the proportion of children affected by major or minor infections, acute splenic sequestration, dactylitis or episodes of bone or abdominal pain. However, the folate supplemented group showed a significantly lower mean cell volume and the placebo group contained a significant excess of children experiencing multiple episodes of dactylitis. The results are compatible with mild folate deficiency in some patients in the placebo group but the absence of striking effects on haematology or growth suggest that the policy of regular folate supplementation in children with SS disease should be critically reviewed.

UI  - 6842340
TI  - Trial of low doses of aspirin as prophylaxis in sickle cell disease.
AB  - The effects of low doses of aspirin on the frequency and severity of painful vaso-occlusive crises were evaluated in children with sickle hemoglobinopathies. Aspirin was compared with placebo in 49 patients in a double-blind crossover study. Careful monitoring of patients revealed an average of 1.1 painful crises per patient year. During the 21 months of study, 70% of patients had a maximum of two painful crises, and 25% experienced four or more. The frequency and severity of crises were not affected by aspirin therapy. In view of aspirin's demonstrated effect on platelet function, we suggest that platelets do not contribute to the initiation or progression of the vaso-occlusive process.

UI  - 6278166
TI  - Advances continue in sickle cell disease.
AB  - 

UI  - 7031872
TI  - [Tolerance of large doses of oral zinc sulfate].
AB  - The toxicity of oral zinc was investigated in patients hospitalized for chronic leg ulcers. Untoward effects were monitored by reference to clinical tolerance, hematological, hepatic and renal parameters, and serum concentrations of copper and iron. The investigation was conducted by comparing two groups of patients who initially did not differ significantly with regard to ulcer area, hemoglobin, leukocytes, copper, iron and zinc. Both groups had serum zinc concentrations in the lower normal range. One group was treated with 3 daily doses of 220 mg oral zinc sulfate and the other with placebo, and hence, untoward effects of zinc should have become manifest in the zinc-treated group. This was not the case. Therefore, oral zinc appears to be well tolerated clinically and does not cause hematological, renal or hepatic toxicity. In view of the increasing interest in and range of indications for zinc, particularly in conditions associated with cellular immunological hyporeactivity, this finding is a prerequisite for the institution of clinical zinc therapy.

UI  - 6794308
TI  - Therapeutic effect of aspirin in sickle cell anaemia.
AB  - This work was carried out to demonstrate the possibility of beneficial therapeutic effects of aspirin in sickle cell anaemia patients. Two groups of 50 patients each, with haemoglobin genotype SS were studied, one group receiving soluble aspirin daily for 6 weeks, while the other was used as a control. There was evidence of increase in oxygen affinity, in haemoglobin levels, and in the life span of RBC, probably due to acetylation of HbS.

UI  - 6786094
TI  - Effect of zinc supplementation on serum testosterone level in adult male sickle cell anemia subjects.
AB  - Previously, we have documented primary testicular failure in adult male subjects with sickle cell anemia. We have also reported the occurrence of zinc deficiency and suggested that androgen deficiency may be related to zinc deficiency in such patients. In this study, we present data with respect to the efferent of oral zinc supplementation on serum testosterone levels in adult male patients with sickle cell anemia. An increase in serum testosterone, neutrophil zinc, and neutrophil alkaline phosphatase activity ws observed in the zinc-supplemented group in comparison with the group on placebo. Additionally, body weight increased and serum lactic dehydrogenase activity decrease in response to zinc supplementation. We conclude that androgen deficiency in adult male subjects with sickle cell anemia is correctable with zinc supplementation and that the determination of neutrophil zinc and alkaline phosphatase activity in the neutrophils may be utilized as good indicators of body zinc status in such subjects.

UI  - 7006142
TI  - Aspirin-dipyridamole prophylaxis of sickle cell disease pain crises.
AB  - 

UI  - 359844
TI  - Hypocupremia induced by zinc therapy in adults.
AB  - Hypocupremia occurred in an adult with sickle cell anemia who received zinc as an antisickling agent for two years. The hypocupremia was associated with microcytosis and relative neutropenia. Administration of copper resulted in an increase in RBC size and leukocyte counts. We have since observed hypoceruloplasminemia of varying degrees in several other sickle cell anemia patients who were receiving oral zinc therapy. This complication was easily corrected by copper supplementation.

UI  - 358140
TI  - [The action of dihydroergotoxine in acute sickling crisis. Results of a double-blind study carried out in French speaking Africa (author's transl)].
AB  - A double-blind multicentre study was undertaken in French-speaking African countries, using parallel series in 34 SC homozygous or double-heterozygous subjects suffering from vasculo-occlusive sickling crisis. In the patients treated with dihydroergotoxine, there was a reduction in the duration of the episodes by 43 hours, i.e. more than one quarter of the total duration. This decrease was statistically significant (p is less than 0.05).

UI  - 4143021
TI  - Editorial: Treatment of sickle-cell crises.
AB  - 

UI  - 4602044
TI  - Studies with intravenous sodium cyanate in patients with sickle cell anemia.
AB  - 

UI  - 4596707
TI  - Treatment of sickle cell crisis with urea in invert sugar. A controlled trial. Cooperative urea trials group.
AB  - 

UI  - 4406432
TI  - Therapy for sickle cell vaso-occlusive crises. Controlled clinical trials and cooperative study of intravenously administered alkali. Cooperative urea trials group.
AB  - 

UI  - 4406431
TI  - Clinical trials of therapy for sickle cell vaso-occlusive crises. Cooperative urea trials group.
AB  - 

UI  - 4576756
TI  - The effect of megestrol acetate on sickling.
AB  - 

UI  - 4112100
TI  - Ancrod in sickle-cell crisis.
AB  - 

UI  - 4110053
TI  - Steroid treatment in the prevention of painful episodes in sickle-cell disease.
AB  - 

UI  - 4999134
TI  - The effect of certain lipid substances on sickling.
AB  - 

UI  - 5795208
TI  - A double-blind trial of a phenothiazine compound in the treatment of clinical crisis of sickle cell anaemia.
AB  - 

UI  - 4875773
TI  - Failure of promazine HCl to prevent the painful episodes in sickle cell anemia.
AB  - 

UI  - 5326524
TI  - Sickle cell anaemia: report of a therapeutic trial.
AB  - 

UI  - 4165407
TI  - Low-molecular-weight dextran in treatment of bone-pain crises in sickle-cell disease. A double-blind trial.
AB  - 
