
UI  - 25003730
TI  - Role of budesonide/formoterol maintenance and reliever therapy: a pragmatic study.
AB  - BUD/FORM SMART is effective in real-life clinical practice. On average, patients who received a low dose steroid in the form of BUD/FORM, had a satisfactorily high proportion of asthma control and had a low rate of ER visits and hospitalization. BUD/FORM maintenance and reliever therapy seems to be promising as a treatment approach for persistent asthma in every day clinical practice.

UI  - 25003728
TI  - Satisfaction level and asthma control among Malaysian asthma patients on Symbicort Maintenance and Reliever Therapy (SMART) in the primary care setting (SMARTEST study).
AB  - Symbicort SMART resulted in a high satisfaction level and asthma control among Malaysian patients treated in the primary care setting and it is an effective and appealing treatment for asthmatic patients.

UI  - 24950849
TI  - Fractional exhaled nitric oxide of at least 100 ppb and implications for future asthma research.
AB  - 

UI  - 24892144
TI  - Classification of childhood asthma phenotypes and long-term clinical responses to inhaled anti-inflammatory medications.
AB  - Phenotypic clustering can be used to identify longitudinally consistent and clinically relevant patient subgroups, with implications for targeted therapeutic strategies and clinical trials design.

UI  - 24846652
TI  - Effects of an anti-TSLP antibody on allergen-induced asthmatic responses.
AB  - Treatment with AMG 157 reduced allergen-induced bronchoconstriction and indexes of airway inflammation before and after allergen challenge. These findings are consistent with a key role for TSLP in allergen-induced airway responses and persistent airway inflammation in patients with allergic asthma. Whether anti-TSLP therapeutics will have clinical value cannot be determined from these data. (Funded by Amgen; ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT01405963.).

UI  - 24838406
TI  - Effect of vitamin D3 on asthma treatment failures in adults with symptomatic asthma and lower vitamin D levels: the VIDA randomized clinical trial.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT01248065.

UI  - 24824230
TI  - Increased C-reactive protein is associated with airway wall thickness in steroid-naive asthma.
AB  - University Hospital Medical Information Network (www.umin.ac.jp/ctr/index/htm); identifier, UMIN000006724.

UI  - 24800595
TI  - Features of severe asthma in young children from Romania.
AB  - Asthma is the most frequent chronic disease of childhood. In spite of significant improvement of treatment options and diagnostic tools, asthma remains in many patients uncontrolled. The term of "severe asthma" seems to be rather a large umbrella for a heterogeneous group of diseases. This paper is presenting our experience in two respiratory disease clinics that evaluate asthmatic children. Current study was designed to test an algorithm for daily practice in a special group of patients: children with previously diagnosed asthma or recurrent-wheezing, evaluated by family physician or pediatrician as severe disease ("Asthma Decalogue in Children"). Out of 313 referrals (during a six months inclusion time) we had 202 children completing study per-protocol. 49 (22.69%) had severe disease, but only 8 had severe asthma (3.7% of total patients and 18.6% of severe patients). They were older, with less male predominance and with more frequent rhino-conjunctivitis and D vitamin deficiency than other asthmatic children with less severe disease. Asthma Decalogue in Children seems to be an efficient tool to differentiate severe asthma from the rest of children with reactive airway diseases.

UI  - 24779482
TI  - Self-management behaviors in older adults with asthma: associations with health literacy.
AB  - Adherence to medications and inhaler technique are poor in older adults with asthma and worse in those with low health literacy. Clinicians should routinely assess controller medication adherence and inhaler technique and use low-literacy communication strategies to support self-management in older adults with asthma.

UI  - 24772585
TI  - Comparison between the effects of generic and original salmeterol/fluticasone combination (SFC) treatment on airway inflammation in stable asthmatic patients.
AB  - This short-term study demonstrated that there was no significant difference between generic SFC and original SFC in terms of anti-inflammatory activity and the control of asthma symptoms. However, it is completely unknown whether generic SFC could effectively prevent the development of asthma exacerbations on a long-term basis. Therefore, longer-term studies are indicated to evaluate generic SFC's relative efficacy on asthma exacerbations.

UI  - 24714184
TI  - [Development and effectiveness of a tailored education program for caregivers of asthmatic children].
AB  - These findings indicate the benefit of a tailored education program to control symptoms in such caregivers.

UI  - 24660603
TI  - Regulatory effects of stage-treatment with established Chinese herbal formulas on inflammatory mediators in pediatric asthma.
AB  - Chinese medication has a regulatory effect on leukotriene receptor gene expression and the imbalance of Th1/Th2 immune cells during asthma attacks in pediatric patients.

UI  - 24650443
TI  - Influence of 2-adrenoceptor 16 genotype on propranolol-induced bronchoconstriction in patients with persistent asthma.
AB  - 

UI  - 24607045
TI  - Ongoing allergic rhinitis impairs asthma control by enhancing the lower airway inflammation.
AB  - This observational study of patients with atopy indicates that the ongoing allergic rhinitis is related to worsening of asthma by enhancing the lower airway inflammation.

UI  - 24589344
TI  - Unsupervised phenotyping of Severe Asthma Research Program participants using expanded lung data.
AB  - The unsupervised machine learning approaches used here provide unique insights into disease, confirming other approaches while revealing novel additional phenotypes.

UI  - 24583137
TI  - Potential predictors of relapse after treatment of asthma exacerbations in children.
AB  - Whereas having taken short-acting 2-agonists within 6 hours before admission and the presence of retractions on physical examination increased the risk of relapse after treatment of the acute attack, being given high-dose inhaled steroids and a written instructional plan when being sent home reduced the risk.

UI  - 24582316
TI  - Efficacy and safety of an anti-IL-13 mAb in patients with severe asthma: a randomized trial.
AB  - Although well tolerated, GSK679586 did not demonstrate clinically meaningful improvements in asthma control, pulmonary function, or exacerbations in patients with severe asthma. Further studies are needed to determine whether therapies targeting IL-13, the functionally related IL-4 cytokine, or both can provide clinical benefit in patients with severe refractory asthma or a subpopulation of these patients beyond that achievable with high-dose corticosteroids.

UI  - 24582168
TI  - Integrating longitudinal information on pulmonary function and inflammation using asthma phenotypes.
AB  - 

UI  - 24565542
TI  - Short-acting -agonist use as a marker of current asthma control.
AB  - Our findings support the use of the number of days of albuterol use, the average number of albuterol actuations per day, and the highest number of albuterol actuations per day over a 1-week period of observation as comparable markers of current asthma control.

UI  - 24565455
TI  - Reassessment of omalizumab-dosing strategies and pharmacodynamics in inner-city children and adolescents.
AB  - A significant portion of children and adolescents particularly suited for omalizumab because of asthma severity status may be ineligible due to IgE >1300 IU/mL. Omalizumab reduced asthma symptoms and exacerbations rapidly; features associated with efficacy can be identified to guide patient selection.

UI  - 24549371
TI  - Clinical and preclinical characterization of the histamine H(4) receptor antagonist JNJ-39758979.
AB  - The histamine H4 receptor (H(4)R) has been shown to have preclinical involvement in both inflammatory and pruritic responses. JNJ-39758979 [(R)-4-(3-amino-pyrrolidin-1-yl)-6-isopropyl-pyrimidin-2-ylamine] is a potent and selective H(4)R antagonist with a Ki at the human receptor of 12.5  2.6 nM and greater than 80-fold selectivity over other histamine receptors. The compound also exhibited excellent selectivity versus other targets. JNJ-39758979 showed dose-dependent activity in models of asthma and dermatitis consistent with other H(4)R antagonists. Preclinical toxicity studies of up to 6 months in rats and 9 months in monkeys indicated an excellent safety profile, supporting the clinical testing of the compound. An oral formulation of JNJ-39758979 was studied in a phase 1 human volunteer study to assess safety, pharmacokinetics, and pharmacodynamics. The compound was well tolerated, with the exception of dose-dependent nausea, and no safety issues were noted in the phase 1 study. JNJ-39758979 exhibited good pharmacokinetics upon oral dosing with a plasma half-life of 124-157 hours after a single oral dose. In addition, dose-dependent inhibition of histamine-induced eosinophil shape change was detected, suggesting that the H4R was inhibited in vivo. In conclusion, JNJ-39758979 is a potent and selective H(4)R antagonist that exhibited good preclinical and phase 1 safety in healthy volunteers with evidence of a pharmacodynamics effect in humans.

UI  - 24507830
TI  - Variability of methacholine bronchoprovocation and the effect of inhaled corticosteroids in mild asthma.
AB  - The effect of ICS on PC20 is not dose dependent at fluticasone levels of 250 and 1,000 g/d. Interpersonal variability for PC20 is large. A lack of precise measurements should be taken into account when interpreting any change in PC20.

UI  - 24490521
TI  - [Using carboxymethl starch sodium solution for the treatment of children with cough variation asthma].
AB  - Carboxymethl starch sodium solution can boost the clinical efficiency of inhaled budesonide in the treatment of children with cough variant asthma. It is safe and effectual.

UI  - 24485129
TI  - Prehospital use of inhaled corticosteroids and point prevalence of pneumonia at the time of hospital admission: secondary analysis of a multicenter cohort study.
AB  - When adjusted for multiple confounding variables, ICS use was not substantially associated with an increased risk for pneumonia requiring admission in our cohort.

UI  - 24429275
TI  - Efficacy and safety of RPL554, a dual PDE3 and PDE4 inhibitor, in healthy volunteers and in patients with asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease: findings from four clinical trials.
AB  - Verona Pharma.

UI  - 24429155
TI  - Magnesium sulphate in acute severe asthma in children (MAGNETIC): a randomised, placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment Programme.

UI  - 24429154
TI  - Intravenous or nebulised magnesium sulphate versus standard therapy for severe acute asthma (3Mg trial): a double-blind, randomised controlled trial.
AB  - UK National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment Programme.

UI  - 24418480
TI  - Outcomes after cessation of mepolizumab therapy in severe eosinophilic asthma: a 12-month follow-up analysis.
AB  - 

UI  - 24404799
TI  - Discrepancies between medical record data and parent reported use of preventive asthma medications.
AB  - Medical records may poorly reflect actual home practices and providers should specifically inquire about medication use and barriers to adherence at the time of an office visit to promote guideline-based, consistent treatment for children with persistent asthma.

UI  - 24404797
TI  - Bronchodilator response as a hallmark of uncontrolled asthma: a randomised clinical trial.
AB  - BD response can be used as a reliable measure of asthma control. This study suggests that ACQ5 scores alone are not sufficient to fully assess asthma control, and that BD response should be included as an essential measurement in any algorithm of asthma control evaluation.

UI  - 24384609
TI  - Budesonide nebulization added to systemic prednisolone in the treatment of acute asthma in children: a double-blind, randomized, controlled trial.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov; No.: NCT01524198; URL: www.clinicaltrials.gov

UI  - 24366613
TI  - Differences in effects of omalizumab on late-phase responses to allergen challenge in the skin and nose at the time of basophil hyporesponsiveness.
AB  - 

UI  - 24350503
TI  - Payment to participants in pediatric research: variation in IRB members' attitudes.
AB  - 

UI  - 24343824
TI  - Effect of inhaled MgSO4 on FEV1 and PEF in children with asthma induced by acetylcholine: a randomized controlled clinical trail of 330 cases.
AB  - Nebulized magnesium sulfate alone has a bronchodilatory effect in Ach-induced asthmatic children. The combination of MgSO4 and albuterol did not has a synergistic effect.

UI  - 24314123
TI  - Qualitative assessment of attributes and ease of use of the ELLIPTA dry powder inhaler for delivery of maintenance therapy for asthma and COPD.
AB  - The ELLIPTA DPI was associated with high patient satisfaction and was preferred to other inhalers by interview participants with asthma and COPD. The development of an inhaler that is regarded as easy and intuitive to use may have positive implications for adherence to therapy in asthma and COPD.

UI  - 24283840
TI  - Is faster safer? Cluster versus short conventional subcutaneous allergen immunotherapy.
AB  - The safety profile of the cluster regimen supports the use of accelerated SCIT schedules with IR-standardized allergen extracts compared with short conventional schedules, particularly if similar extracts and application methods are used.

UI  - 24267370
TI  - Rethinking the prevalence of exercise-induced bronchoconstriction in patients with asthma.
AB  - 

UI  - 24266961
TI  - Perseverant, non-indicated treatment of obese patients for obstructive lung disease.
AB  - A substantial proportion of patients with obesity referred for pulmonary function testing did not have obstructive lung disease, but were treated nonetheless, before and after spirometry demonstrating absence of airway obstruction.

UI  - 24253831
TI  - Once-daily fluticasone furoate (FF)/vilanterol reduces risk of severe exacerbations in asthma versus FF alone.
AB  - NCT01086384.

UI  - 24229826
TI  - Use of metered-dose inhaler electronic monitoring in a real-world asthma randomized controlled trial.
AB  - The Smartinhaler Tracker is a reliable monitor for measuring MDI use in a real-world setting. Use of extensive monitor and data-checking protocols reduces data loss. In a research or clinical setting, the use of a validated and reliable electronic monitor represents the reference standard for assessing patterns of medication use.

UI  - 24229823
TI  - Budesonide inhalation suspension versus montelukast in children aged 2 to 4 years with mild persistent asthma.
AB  - BIS and montelukast provided acceptable asthma control in children aged 2 to 4 years with mild persistent asthma with no significant difference between treatments in the primary end point; however, several secondary outcomes showed statistically significant differences (and many had numerical differences) in favor of BIS over montelukast.

UI  - 24228710
TI  - Loss of salmeterol bronchoprotection against exercise in relation to ADRB2 Arg16Gly polymorphism and exhaled nitric oxide.
AB  - The LOB that occurs with chronic long-acting 2-agonists use is not affected by ADRB2 Arg16Gly polymorphisms. High FE(NO) was associated with marked LOB. Use of long-acting 2-agonists before achieving a reduction in FeNO may need to be avoided. Clinical trial registered with www.clinicaltrials.gov (NCT 00595361).

UI  - 24224471
TI  - OX40L blockade and allergen-induced airway responses in subjects with mild asthma.
AB  - Pharmacological activity of anti-OX40L MAb was observed by decreases in serum total IgE and airway eosinophils at 16 weeks post-dosing, but there was no effect on allergen-induced airway responses. It is possible that the treatment duration or dose of antibody was insufficient to impact the airway responses.

UI  - 24188204
TI  - Efficacy of procaterol combined with inhaled budesonide for treatment of cough-variant asthma.
AB  - Procaterol combined with budesonide was well tolerated and effective at improving cough symptoms and quality of life in patients with CVA.

UI  - 24188203
TI  - Effects of nebulized high-dose budesonide on moderate-to-severe acute exacerbation of asthma in children: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study.
AB  - On the basis of nebulized short-acting bronchodilators, addition of nebulized high-dose budesonide resulted in clinical improvement in children with moderate-to-severe acute exacerbation of asthma, suggesting that nebulized high-dose ICS can be used as first-line therapy for non-life-threatening acute exacerbation of asthma in children.

UI  - 24219842
TI  - The Pediatric Asthma Control and Communication Instrument for the Emergency Department (PACCI-ED) improves physician assessment of asthma morbidity in pediatric emergency department patients.
AB  - The PACCI-ED improves the assessment of asthma control, trajectory, and burden by ED attendings, and may help assessment of asthma medication adherence and prior asthma exacerbations. The PACCI-ED can be used to improve provider assessment of asthma morbidity during pediatric ED visits for asthma exacerbations, and to identify children who may benefit from interventions to reduce asthma morbidity.

UI  - 24204742
TI  - Exhaled nitric oxide fraction as an add-on to ACQ-7 for not well controlled asthma detection.
AB  - The addition of FeNO to ACQ-7 increased the detectability of not well controlled asthma upon adjustment of maintenance therapy. Adding a measure of airway inflammation to usual symptom and spirometry based scores increases the efficacy of current asthma clinical control assessment.

UI  - 24203262
TI  - Effects of intravenous and oral -blockade in persistent asthmatics controlled on inhaled corticosteroids.
AB  - Intravenous esmolol was administered without any adverse effects on pulmonary function in selected, stable, mild-to-moderate asthmatics controlled on inhaled corticosteroids. Tiotropium prevented propranolol induced bronchoconstriction after acute dosing during up-titration to 80 mg with no adverse impact on asthma control.

UI  - 24200404
TI  - Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of brodalumab, a human anti-IL-17 receptor monoclonal antibody, in moderate to severe asthma.
AB  - Inhibition of IL-17 receptor A did not produce a treatment effect in subjects with asthma. The results of the high-reversibility subgroup analysis are of uncertain significance, requiring further study of brodalumab in this asthma subpopulation. Clinical trial registered with www.clinicaltrials.gov (NCT01199289).

UI  - 24187867
TI  - Effect of "yang-warming and kidney essence-replenishing" herbal paste on cold-related asthma exacerbation.
AB  - "Yang-warming and kidney essence-replenishing" herbal paste could reduce cold-related asthma exacerbation.

UI  - 24186700
TI  - Clinical and cost effectiveness of switching asthma patients from fluticasone-salmeterol to extra-fine particle beclometasone-formoterol: a retrospective matched observational study of real-world patients.
AB  - Asthma patients may be switched from FP-SAL to efBDP-FOR at an equivalent or lower ICS dosage with no reduction in clinical effectiveness but a significant reduction in cost.

UI  - 24169052
TI  - Effects of inhaled corticosteroids on the dual asthmatic response.
AB  - Bronchial asthma patients develop various asthmatic response types to allergen challenge, such as immediate asthmatic response (IAR), late asthmatic response (LAR), or dual asthmatic response (DAR), the latter being a combination of an early phase (IAR) and a late phase (LAR). This study was designed to investigate (1) the features of the DAR thus identifying it as either a genuine two-phase compact clinical entity or a simultaneous appearance of two independent asthmatic response types, IAR and LAR, and (2) the protective effects of inhaled budesonide (BUD) on the DAR. Two protection tests (PTs) with BUD and a placebo (PL), in a single dose of 800 micrograms, were performed on 48 DAR patients, divided into four groups. Each test consisted of two treatments, one given 30 minutes before and the other at 1, 2, 3, or 4 hours after the bronchial challenge with allergen. The study design was randomized, double-blind, double-dummy, placebo-matched, crossover. A single dose of inhaled BUD did not affect the early phase (IAR) when applied 30 minutes before the challenge (p > 0.2), whereas it significantly prevented the late phase (LAR) when administered either 30 minutes before (p < 0.001) or up to 4 hours after the allergen challenge (p < 0.05). The different protective effects of BUD on both of the phases of DAR would suggest that this response does not exist as a compact clinical entity, but it may be a manifestation of two independent simultaneous responses, IAR and LAR, because of different immunologic mechanisms. Inhaled corticosteroids in a single dose administered shortly before or up to 4 hours after the allergen exposure contribute significantly to the prevention of the LAR, whereas they are unable to affect the IAR.

UI  - 24167583
TI  - Central role of cellular senescence in TSLP-induced airway remodeling in asthma.
AB  - TSLP stimulation can induce cellular senescence during airway remodeling in asthma. Inhibiting the signaling pathways of cellular senescence overcomes TSLP-induced airway remodeling.

UI  - 24144222
TI  - MAGNEsium Trial In Children (MAGNETIC): a randomised, placebo-controlled trial and economic evaluation of nebulised magnesium sulphate in acute severe asthma in children.
AB  - The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment programme.

UI  - 24139497
TI  - Childhood asthma clusters and response to therapy in clinical trials.
AB  - In this study, we replicated SARP pediatric asthma clusters by using a separate, large clinical trials network. Early-onset/severe-lung function and early-onset/comorbidity clusters were associated with differential and limited response to therapy, respectively. Further prospective study of therapeutic response by cluster could provide new insights into childhood asthma treatment.

UI  - 24131825
TI  - GLCCI1 rs37973 does not influence treatment response to inhaled corticosteroids in white subjects with asthma.
AB  - 

UI  - 24131304
TI  - The effects of lebrikizumab in patients with mild asthma following whole lung allergen challenge.
AB  - Lebrikizumab reduced the LAR in subjects with mild asthma. Clinical trial number NCT00781443.

UI  - 24128103
TI  - [Retrospective analysis of omalizumab in patients with severe allergic asthma].
AB  - In these patients add-on therapy with omalizumab reduced asthma exacerbations and emergency visits or hospitalizations. Only 55% of patients significantly improved global asthma control and no significant changes in FEV1 were observed.

UI  - 24124359
TI  - Impact of active and passive smoking as risk factors for asthma and COPD in women presenting to primary care in Syria: first report by the WHO-GARD survey group.
AB  - These findings will be considered for country and region strategy for noncommunicable diseases, to overcome underdiagnosis of CRD in women, fight widespread female cigarette and narghile smoking, and promote behavioral research in this field.

UI  - 24117970
TI  - Level of asthma control and healthcare utilization in Latin America.
AB  - The purpose of this study was to investigate whether uncontrolled asthma was associated with healthcare outcomes among Latin American patients with asthma. We used data from 2168 patients with asthma who participated in the 2011 Latin America Asthma Insights and Management (AIM) survey. Using Global Initiative for Asthma (GINA) guidelines, patients were categorized as having asthma that was well-controlled, partly controlled, or uncontrolled. Overall, 7% of the patients surveyed had asthma that was classified as well-controlled. Patients whose asthma was not well-controlled were significantly more likely to report use of asthma medications (ORs ranging from 1.6-41) and to have had emergency healthcare visits or hospitalizations for their asthma in the previous year (ORs ranging from 2.1 to 5.9). They also reported decreases in their productivity compared to patients with well-controlled asthma. These associations suggest that emphasis on improving asthma control could have substantial effects on patient productivity and utilization of healthcare resources.

UI  - 24093599
TI  - Statin exposure is associated with decreased asthma-related emergency department visits and oral corticosteroid use.
AB  - Among statin users with asthma, statin exposure was associated with decreased odds of asthma-related emergency department visits and oral corticosteroid dispensings.

UI  - 24084072
TI  - Predictors of response to tiotropium versus salmeterol in asthmatic adults.
AB  - Although these results require confirmation, predictors of a positive clinical response to tiotropium include a positive response to albuterol and airway obstruction, factors that could help identify appropriate patients for this therapy.

UI  - 24084071
TI  - Predictors of asthma control and lung function responsiveness to step 3 therapy in children with uncontrolled asthma.
AB  - Levels of impulse oscillometry reactance area indicating peripheral airway obstruction and urinary leukotriene E levels indicating cysteinyl leukotriene inflammation can differentiate LABA step-up responses from responses to LTRA or ICS step-up therapy. Further studies with physiologic, genetic, and biological markers related to these phenotypes will be needed to predict individual responses to LABA step-up therapy.

UI  - 24079038
TI  - [Observation on the effects of the treatment of sillicosis merger asthma].
AB  - Salmeterol/Fluticasone Propionate or the combination of Salmeterol/Fluticasone Propionate and Totropiumi can improve lung function and clinical symptoms of patients with Sillicosis merger Asthma. It is also better that the combination of Salmeterol/Fluticasone Propionate and Totropiumi obviously improve clinical symptoms of patients and reduice acute attack times.

UI  - 24077095
TI  - Hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis effects of mometasone furoate/formoterol fumarate vs fluticasone propionate/salmeterol administered through metered-dose inhaler.
AB  - MF/F 400 g/10 g or FP/S 460 g/42 g bid through an MDI led to similar reductions from baseline in mean cortisol AUC (22% and 34% lower than placebo, respectively), whereas the effect of MF/F 200 g/10 g was similar to placebo.

UI  - 24074332
TI  - Metrics of salbutamol use as predictors of future adverse outcomes in asthma.
AB  - Electronically recorded frequency of current salbutamol use is a strong predictor of risk of future adverse outcomes in asthma, with average daily use performing the best. These findings provide new information for clinicians considering metrics of salbutamol as predictors of future adverse outcomes in asthma.

UI  - 24053709
TI  - Risk factors associated with poor controlled pediatric asthma in a university hospital.
AB  - Risk factors associated with partly controlled/ uncontrolled asthma were moderate/ severe persistent asthma and sinusitis. Using air conditioner seemed to reduce risk of partly controlled/ uncontrolled asthma.

UI  - 24050312
TI  - A randomized, controlled trial to evaluate the effect of an anti-interleukin-9 monoclonal antibody in adults with uncontrolled asthma.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT00968669.

UI  - 24045118
TI  - Assessment of asthma control: the SERENA study.
AB  - This study highlights the importance in clinical practice of a periodic assessment by a validated asthma control instrument and exacerbations/health care contacts during previous year. Clinicians should be aware that a significant proportion of patients can have uncontrolled asthma, despite regular pharmacological treatment.

UI  - 24043456
TI  - Inhaler competence and patient satisfaction with Easyhaler: results of two real-life multicentre studies in asthma and COPD.
AB  - Investigators found Easyhaler() easy to teach and patients found it easy to use, and their satisfaction with the device was high.

UI  - 24040887
TI  - The level of control of mild asthma in general practice: an observational community-based study.
AB  - More than one of three patients had poor asthma control, despite being considered by their GPs as mild asthmatics and treated with ICS. Asthmatic patients need to be regularly re-evaluated. Treatment is often inadequate and should be targeted to improve control and reduce asthma morbidity (SAM104964).

UI  - 24036246
TI  - Randomised controlled trial of azithromycin in smokers with asthma.
AB  - 

UI  - 24028826
TI  - Long-term outcomes of internet-based self-management support in adults with asthma: randomized controlled trial.
AB  - International Standard Randomized Controlled Trial Number (ISRCTN): 79864465; http://www.controlled-trials.com/ISRCTN79864465 (Archived by WebCite at http://www.webcitation.org/6J4VHhPk4).

UI  - 24028677
TI  - Immunogenicity and safety of omalizumab in pre-filled syringes in patients with allergic (IgE-mediated) asthma.
AB  - Omalizumab in pre-filled syringes was not associated with immunogenicity. This novel formulation, which does not require reconstitution, had a safety profile consistent with the lyophilised formulation. A limitation of this study is that efficacy of omalizumab in the treatment of asthma was not specifically addressed herein. Clinicaltrials.gov identifier: NCT00500539.

UI  - 24024497
TI  - The effects of airway microbiome on corticosteroid responsiveness in asthma.
AB  - A subset of subjects with CR asthma demonstrates airway expansion of specific gram-negative bacteria, which trigger TAK1/MAPK activation and induce corticosteroid resistance. TAK1 inhibition restored cellular sensitivity to corticosteroids.

UI  - 24010736
TI  - Addition of a 5-lipoxygenase-activating protein inhibitor to an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) or an ICS/long-acting beta-2-agonist combination in subjects with asthma.
AB  - Clinicaltrials.gov identifiers: NCT01156792 and NCT01248975.

UI  - 23993706
TI  - Phenotypic predictors of response to oral glucocorticosteroids in severe asthma.
AB  - Sputum eosinophils and FeNO were the best predictors of favorable response to oral prednisolone in severe asthmatics. A guided approach to glucocorticosteroid treatment should be recommended as it favors better control of the disease and presumably a lower rate of adverse events. The study has been registered at the site: clinicaltrials.gov with number: NCT00555607.

UI  - 23991670
TI  - Efficacy and safety of once-daily GW870086 a novel selective glucocorticoid in mild-moderate asthmatics: a randomised, two-way crossover, controlled clinical trial.
AB  - This total lack of effect suggests that repeat-dose GW8700861mg has suboptimal efficacy in mild to moderate asthma.

UI  - 23981368
TI  - Acupuncture in asthmatic children: a prospective, randomized, controlled clinical trial of efficacy.
AB  - Although the effect was not sustained beyond the treatment period, the study demonstrated that acupuncture had an effect on asthma in preschool children for the duration of the treatment course as assessed by subjective parameters and use of medication.

UI  - 23967631
TI  - [Controlled observation of non-blister acupoint sticking and electroacupuncture for bronchial asthma].
AB  - The acupoint sticking and ginger-separated moxibustion could obviously improve clinical symptoms in patients with bronchial asthma, and reduce skin irritation of medicine to avoid the blister and relive patients' suffer, which has superior effect to electroacupuncture combined with ginger-separated moxibustion.

UI  - 23964558
TI  - Tolerability to etoricoxib in patients with aspirin-exacerbated respiratory disease.
AB  - The highly selective COX-2 inhibitor etoricoxib was tolerated in most but not all patients tested. An oral provocation test is therefore recommended before prescribing etoricoxib for patients with AERD.

UI  - 23958393
TI  - The effect of montelukast on wheal reactions in skin prick tests: a double-blind-placebo-controlled randomized trial.
AB  - Our results showed that montelukast had no effect on measurements of SPT. Thus, we concluded that there is no need to discontinue the treatment in order to perform SPT in patients receiving montelukast, even in those on montelukast treatment for at least 21 days.

UI  - 23949578
TI  - Albuterol administration is commonly associated with increases in serum lactate in patients with asthma treated for acute exacerbation of asthma.
AB  - Plasma albuterol was significantly correlated with serum lactate concentration after adjusting for asthma severity. Hyperlactatemia was not associated with poorer pulmonary function as measured by 3-h FEV 1 % predicted or increased hospitalization or relapse at 1 week.

UI  - 23927852
TI  - Differences between asthma in young and elderly: results from the COREA study.
AB  - EA and NEA have different compositional patterns underlying their clinical variables. These observations helped in understanding the differences between EA and NEA from the integrated view covering various clinical aspects.

UI  - 23916740
TI  - Stepping down from high dose fluticasone/salmeterol to extrafine BDP/F in asthma is cost-effective.
AB  - It was found that maintaining controlled patients on high dose FP/S is not cost-effective. Extrafine BDP/F 400/24g daily can be considered to be a cost-effective option in the countries analyzed to maintain control of asthmatic patients stepped down from high dose FP/S 1000/100g daily dry powder or suspension formulations.

UI  - 23907810
TI  - Comparison of the bronchodilator and systemic effects of AZD3199, an inhaled ultra-long-acting -adrenoceptor agonist, with formoterol in patients with asthma.
AB  - AZD3199 480 g and 1920 g produced 24-hour bronchodilation. At comparable peak bronchodilator effect, AZD3199 was associated with a lower level of systemic side effects than formoterol. AZD3199 was well tolerated, with no safety concerns identified to preclude further investigation. ClinicalTrials.gov study identifier: NCT00736489.

UI  - 23904191
TI  - Budesonide/formoterol maintenance and reliever therapy versus free-combination therapy for asthma: a real-life study.
AB  - In this real-life setting, SMART-treated patients used less rescue medication despite a lower ICS burden vs conventional asthma management with three different inhalers.

UI  - 23902840
TI  - [Clinical efficacies of inhaled corticosteroids plus theophylline in the treatment of bronchial asthma].
AB  - Compared with ICS plus inhaled long-acting 2-agonists (LABA), ICS plus low-dose theophylline shows similar efficacies in the improvement of lung function and the control of airway inflammation for asthmatics.

UI  - 23895200
TI  - Adherence to asthma medication regimens in urban African American adolescents: application of self-determination theory.
AB  - Though several variables representing SDT constructs were correlated with adherence, results demonstrate that family routines may be more relevant for African American adolescents' adherence than other SDT constructs. Thus, helping families to share and better integrate asthma care into daily schedules may be an important intervention strategy to improve medication adherence among high-risk African American adolescents.

UI  - 23889242
TI  - Visual analogue scale in patients treated for allergic rhinitis: an observational prospective study in primary care: asthma and rhinitis.
AB  - The VAS can detect with high sensitivity the variations of symptoms and QoL in patients with AR.

UI  - 23884875
TI  - Sevoflurane therapy for life-threatening asthma in children.
AB  - Sevoflurane inhalation corrects high levels of Pco2 and provides clinical improvement in mechanically ventilated children with life-threatening asthma who fail to respond to conventional treatment.

UI  - 23880612
TI  - Predictors for identifying the efficacy of systemic steroids on sustained exhaled nitric oxide elevation in severe asthma.
AB  - Systemic corticosteroids could suppress the residual FENO elevations in more than half of the patients with severe asthma and the reduction in FENO levels was associated with improvements in asthma control and airflow limitation. The FENO levels and blood eosinophil numbers were the predictors of improved residual airway inflammation by systemic steroid therapy in severe asthma.

UI  - 23870606
TI  - Fluticasone/Formoterol combination therapy compared with monotherapy in adolescent and adult patients with mild to moderate asthma.
AB  - Fluticasone/formoterol had a good tolerability profile and showed statistically superior efficacy for the two co-primary endpoints compared to fluticasone or formoterol, in adolescents and adults with mild to moderate asthma. ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT00394199.

UI  - 23866823
TI  - Effects of benralizumab on airway eosinophils in asthmatic patients with sputum eosinophilia.
AB  - Single-dose intravenous and multiple-dose subcutaneous benralizumab reduced eosinophil counts in airway mucosa/submucosa and sputum and suppressed eosinophil counts in bone marrow and peripheral blood. The safety profile supports further development. Additional studies are needed to assess the clinical benefit in asthmatic patients.

UI  - 23865726
TI  - Superiority of fluticasone propionate/formoterol fumarate versus fluticasone propionate alone in patients with moderate-to-severe asthma: a randomised controlled trial.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT00649025; EudraCT number: 2007-005653-37.

UI  - 23859415
TI  - Determining factors of patient compliance to treatment in allergic rhinitis.
AB  - Compliance with intake of sublingual immunotherapy and H1-antihistamines is high. However, our findings point out that patients with characteristics such as a comorbid bronchial asthma or mild symptoms have higher odds for noncompliance and require attentive monitoring to reduce healthcare costs and morbidity.

UI  - 23857459
TI  - Comparative study of the safety of regadenoson between patients with mild/moderate chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and asthma.
AB  - This study showed a good safety profile in our series of COPD and asthma patients undergoing MPI. Regadenoson was well tolerated by all patients, with dyspnoea, headache and feeling hot showing differences between groups.

UI  - 23846316
TI  - Efficacy and safety of fluticasone furoate/vilanterol compared with fluticasone propionate/salmeterol combination in adult and adolescent patients with persistent asthma: a randomized trial.
AB  - The efficacy of once-daily FF/VI was similar to bid FP/SAL in improving lung function in patients with persistent asthma. No safety issues were identified.

UI  - 23843569
TI  - Laser acupuncture in treatment of childhood bronchial asthma.
AB  - low-intensity laser acupuncture can be safe and effective treatment in asthmatic children.

UI  - 23841529
TI  - Cough variant and cough-predominant asthma are major causes of persistent cough: a multicenter study in Japan.
AB  - These findings show that CVA and CPA are the main causes of cough persisting for 3 weeks.

UI  - 23841472
TI  - Effects of omalizumab on eosinophil cationic peptide, 25-hydroxyvitamin-D, IL-1 and sCD200 in cases of Samter's syndrome: 36 months follow-up.
AB  - To our knowledge, this is the first time an association between omalizumab use and Samter's syndrome has been documented. As a conclusion allergic nasal symptoms (sneezing, postnasal drip) and asthma symptoms were decreased in patients, but no change was seen on nasal polyposis development after omalizumab treatment.

UI  - 23829494
TI  - Proof-of-concept evaluation of trough airway hyper-responsiveness following regular racemic or levosalbutamol in genotype-stratified steroid-treated persistent asthmatic patients.
AB  - Asthmatic patients receiving ICSs (inhaled corticosteroids) may take frequent add-on therapy with salbutamol despite on-demand prescription. Frequent salbutamol use can be detrimental in asthma. The isomeric formulation of salbutamol and the B2ADR (2 adrenoceptor) 16 genotype may also influence this phenomenon. We performed a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, triple crossover, proof of concept trial comparing 2weeks of regular therapy with inhaled racemic salbutamol [200g q.i.d. (four times daily)], levosalbutamol (100g q.i.d.) or placebo on trough methacholine PC20 [provocative concentration causing 20% fall in FEV1 (forced expiratory volume in 1s)] 6h post-dose (the primary outcome) in 30 persistent asthmatic patients (15 who were Arg16 homozygous and 15 who were Gly16 homozygous) all receiving ICSs. There was no worsening of AHR (airway hyper-responsiveness) at trough to methacholine after 2weeks regular exposure to either racemic (P=0.53) or levosalbutamol (P=0.84) compared with placebo, nor between genotypes-as dd (doubling dilution) difference in methacholine PC20 from placebo [salbutamol/Arg16=0.36 dd [95% CI (confidence interval), -0.43, 1.15]; salbutamol/Gly16=0.01 dd (95% CI, -0.47, 0.49); levosalbutamol/Arg16=-0.01 dd (95% CI, -0.89, 0.87); and levosalbutamol/Gly16=0.28 dd (95% CI, -0.22, 0.77)]. Both active treatments improved morning PEF (peak expiratory flow) in Gly16 (P=0.04 overall) but not Arg16 (P=0.50 overall) patients, whereas evening PEF improved in both Gly16 (P<0.001 overall) and Arg16 (P=0.006 overall) patients. In conclusion, the regular exposure to either racemic or levosalbutamol for 2weeks added to ICSs did not cause worsening of AHR at trough compared with placebo; with no difference seen between B2ADR 16 genotypes.

UI  - 23818758
TI  - Early achievement and maintenance of stable asthma control using initially higher-dose inhaled corticosteroids as part of combination therapy: an open-label pilot study.
AB  - Patients receiving HD therapy achieved asthma control more rapidly and maintained greater stability than those receiving GD therapy. This represents a novel strategy for gaining disease control in patients with uncontrolled asthma.

UI  - 23815552
TI  - A randomised cross-over trial investigating the ease of use and preference of two dry powder inhalers in patients with asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
AB  - With DK fewer errors were made, more patients preferred DK over EH and patients were more satisfied with DK. This may enable DK to improve treatment outcomes more than EH.

UI  - 23800333
TI  - Feasibility, acceptability and preliminary effectiveness of patient advocates for improving asthma outcomes in adults.
AB  - The PA intervention was feasible and acceptable and demonstrated potential for improving asthma control and quality of life.

UI  - 23791063
TI  - [Efficacy and safety of tulobuterol patch versus oral salbutamol sulfate in children with mild or moderate acute attack of bronchial asthma: a comparative study].
AB  - Compared with oral salbutamol sulfate, tulobuterol patch has a better therapeutic efficacy and a higher safety in children with mild or moderate acute asthmatic attack.

UI  - 23786930
TI  - Montelukast improves air trapping, not airway remodeling, in patients with moderate-to-severe asthma: a pilot study.
AB  - We have shown, using lung function tests and HRCT image technique, that add-on therapy with montelukast improves distal lung function reflected by air trapping, but not airway wall thickness in moderate-to-severe asthma.

UI  - 23786279
TI  - Specialist-based treatment reduces the severity of allergic rhinitis.
AB  - Specialist-based treatment improves AR severity, in addition to nasal symptoms and quality of life. However, no matter the treatment option some AR patients remain severe and need further follow-up.

UI  - 23777849
TI  - Pharmacodynamic modeling of cough responses to capsaicin inhalation calls into question the utility of the C5 end point.
AB  - Nonlinear mixed-effects modeling demonstrates that maximal capsaicin cough responses better discriminate health from disease and predict spontaneous cough frequency and therefore provide important insights into the mechanisms underlying CC.

UI  - 23769863
TI  - Real life clinical study design supporting the effectiveness of extra-fine inhaled beclomethasone/formoterol at the level of small airways of asthmatics.
AB  - Asthmatic subjects who had the most improvement in FVC after transition to I-EF-BDP/F from other combined ICS/LABA preparations also demonstrated a significant decrease in some indicators of airway/systemic inflammation. These results support the notion that I-EF-BDP/F exerts an effect also at the level of the small airways through a reduction of the level of air trapping. Patients in whom inflammation of the small airways plays an important clinical role are the ones to derive most benefit from this small airways tailored treatment. However, improved compliance due to the "promise of a new drug" effect should also be considered as contributing to the treatment results.

UI  - 23738402
TI  - Effect of health education on compliance in asthma.
AB  - Non-compliance is a major problem in the treatment of any chronic disease. Asthma is one such chronic disease where non-compliance is a major problem. Several factors for non-compliance like cost of the drugs and relief of symptoms on taking medications for a short time are common to all chronic diseases but in asthma, inhalational therapy especially in elderly because of senile changes, economic factors and comorbidities is an added factor. Health education can improve the compliance. So a study was undertaken to observe the causes of non-compliance in asthmatics, to compare these causes in elderly and young asthmatics and to see the effect of health education on non-compliance in asthmatics. One hundred patients of bronchial asthma, group A consisting 50 patients > or = 65 years old and group B 50 patients < 40 years attending tuberculosis and chest diseases hospital, Patiala were studied. Initial compliance and reasons for non-compliance, initial usage of inhalational devices and their techniques of inhalation were studied. Patients were educated on asthma and inhalational techniques.These patients were followed up at 15th day, 1st, 2nd and 3rd months for changes in compliance and lung functions. At the initial stage, non-compliance was observed in 30 patients (60%) amongst elderly and only 15 patients (30%) amongst the young. Cause for non-compliance was cost in 6, memory in 11, both cost and memory in 7 and relief of symptoms in 6 in elderly and 4, 0, 0 and 11 in young respectively. Only 23 patients (40%) amongst the elderly and 33 patients (66%) amongst the young were put on inhalational therapy. There were statistically significant differences between elderly and young with respect to all the above factors. Out of these 23 elderly, only 7 (30.4%) were confident of the technique of inhalation and demonstrated it correctly.The health education resulted in significant improvement in compliance in both the groups, but more so in the young. The compliance for medications improved from a baseline of 40% to 88% amongst elderly and from 70% to 96% amongst young. There was an improvement in the confidence and technique of inhalation from 44% to 86% amongst elderly and from 64% to 98% amongst young at follow-ups. Mean PEFR improved statistically significantly from 75.25% to 81.13% in elderly and 84.38% to 89.74% in young asthmatics. However, during the follow-up at 2nd month, it was realised that 7 patients amongst elderly and 1 amongst young could not be sustained on inhalational medications because of the cost factor, therefore they were put on only oral medications which were supplied free of cost to them and thus at followup at 3rd month, these patients were not on inhalational medications any more.

UI  - 23726041
TI  - Dose-ranging study of lebrikizumab in asthmatic patients not receiving inhaled steroids.
AB  - Blocking IL-13, a single cytokine, in this population of asthmatic patients is insufficient to improve lung function. There is evidence that IL-13 blockade may improve disease control, as measured by prevention of protocol-defined treatment failure in these patients.

UI  - 23721684
TI  - The eXpeRience registry: the 'real-world' effectiveness of omalizumab in allergic asthma.
AB  - Omalizumab has demonstrated therapeutic benefits in controlled clinical trials. Evaluation of outcomes in real-world clinical practice is needed to provide a complete understanding of the benefits of omalizumab treatment. eXpeRience was a 2-year, international, single-arm, open-label, observational registry that evaluated real-world effectiveness, safety and use of omalizumab therapy in 943 patients with uncontrolled persistent allergic asthma. Effectiveness variables (physician's Global Evaluation of Treatment Effectiveness [GETE], and change from baseline in exacerbation rate, symptoms, rescue medication use, and oral corticosteroid [OCS] use) were evaluated at pre-specified time-points. Safety data were also recorded. By physician's GETE, 69.9% of patients were responders to omalizumab after 16 (1) weeks. The proportion of patients with no clinically significant exacerbations increased from 6.8% during the 12-month pre-treatment period to 54.1% and 67.3% at Months 12 and 24, respectively. Symptoms and rescue medication use at Month 24 were reduced by >50% from baseline. Maintenance OCS use was lower at Month 24 (14.2%) compared with Month 12 (16.1%) and baseline (28.6%). Overall, omalizumab had an acceptable safety profile. The results from eXpeRience indicate that omalizumab was associated with improvements in outcomes in patients with uncontrolled persistent allergic asthma; these improvements were consistent with the results of clinical trials.

UI  - 23720852
TI  - [Easyhalers in practice for treating patients with asthma].
AB  - A comparative investigation was conducted to study the therapeutic effect of using two powder inhalers (the new-generation device--an easyhaler as well as an aerolyser inhaler) in daily practice for treating patients with moderate asthma. It showed the pharmacological equivalence, efficiency, and safety of applying a combination of the easyhalers budesonide and formoterol, as well as the simplicity and convenience to use the inhalers of this type.

UI  - 23715360
TI  - Comparison of salbutamol and ipratropium bromide versus salbutamol alone in the treatment of acute severe asthma.
AB  - The use of nebulized Ipratropium bromide, quaternary anticholinergic bronchodilators in combination with beta-agonist for the treatment of acute asthma in adults is controversial. In a view of different recommendation the present study is undertaken in Bangladeshi patients. Combination of inhaled Ipratropium bromide and Salbutamol provides greater bronchodilatation than mono therapy with Salbutamol alone in acute severe asthma. Patients of severe asthma (PEFR <50% of predicted) were enrolled into control group (Salbutamol only) and case (Salbutamol + Ipratropium bromide) group. After measurement of peak expiratory flow, patient received 3 doses of 2.5 mg Salbutamol (n=40) only or 3 doses of both 2.5mg Salbutamol and 500mcg Ipratropium bromide at an interval of 20 minutes (n=40) through a jet nebulizer. Peak flow was reassessed 30 & 60 minutes after treatment. Peak flow at baseline was similar in two groups. Then at 30 minutes after nebulization, the meanSD percentage increase in peak flow was greater in combination group (60.0135.01%) than Salbutamol group (44.4725.03%) with difference of 16% (p=0.025). At 60 minutes the percentage increase in peak flow was about 32% greater in combination group than Salbutamol group (94.4433.70% vs. 62.5729.26%, p=0.000) and combination group reached percentage predicted peak flow more than 60% while Sabutamol group did not. Ipratropium Bromide and Salbutamol nebulized combinedly have better bronchodilating effect than Salbultamol alone in acute severe asthma.

UI  - 23713625
TI  - Evaluation of asthma control and patient's perception of asthma: findings and analysis of a nationwide questionnaire-based survey in China.
AB  - Despite improvements in asthma control and ICS and PFM compliance compared with past literature, the current level of asthma control countrywide continues to fall short of the goals set in the GINA.

UI  - 23688323
TI  - Dupilumab in persistent asthma with elevated eosinophil levels.
AB  - In patients with persistent, moderate-to-severe asthma and elevated eosinophil levels who used inhaled glucocorticoids and LABAs, dupilumab therapy, as compared with placebo, was associated with fewer asthma exacerbations when LABAs and inhaled glucocorticoids were withdrawn, with improved lung function and reduced levels of Th2-associated inflammatory markers. (Funded by Sanofi and Regeneron Pharmaceuticals; ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT01312961.).

UI  - 23686815
TI  - Long-term results of endoscopic sinus surgery-oriented treatment for chronic rhinosinusitis with asthma.
AB  - FESS-oriented multimodality treatment improves CRS with asthma significantly and persistently. Asthma control level improved. Antiasthma medication use and pulmonary function remained stable.

UI  - 23672993
TI  - Long-term follow-up after two years of asthma treatment guided by airway responsiveness in children.
AB  - The beneficial effect on lung function of 2 years treatment guided by AHR was lost after 3-7 years of usual care. This suggests that an AHR-guided treatment strategy may need to be sustained in order to preserve lung function.

UI  - 23672570
TI  - Perception of bronchoconstriction: a complementary disease marker in children with asthma.
AB  - Poorer symptom perception in asthmatic children correlated with hyperresponsiveness, and was associated with lower baseline FEV(1) and less use of rescue bronchodilators. This suggests that the measurement of symptom perception should be taken into account in individual management plans for children with asthma.

UI  - 23664767
TI  - Evaluation of lung function and deposition of aerosolized bronchodilators carried by heliox associated with positive expiratory pressure in stable asthmatics: a randomized clinical trial.
AB  - While administration of medical aerosols with heliox and positive airway pressure are both used clinically to improve aerosol delivery, few studies have differentiated their separate roles in treatment of asthmatics. The aim of this randomized, double blinded study is to differentiate the effect of heliox and oxygen with and without positive expiratory pressure (PEP), on delivery of radiotagged inhaled bronchodilators on pulmonary function and deposition in asthmatics. 32 patients between 18 and 65 years of age diagnosed with stable moderate to severe asthma were randomly assigned into four groups: (1) Heliox + PEP (n = 6), (2) Oxygen + PEP (n = 6), (3) Heliox (n = 11) and (4) Oxygen without PEP (n = 9). Each group received 1 mg of fenoterol and 2 mg of ipratropium bromide combined with 25 mCi (955 Mbq) of Technetium-99m and 0.9% saline to a total dose volume of 3 mL placed in a Venticis II nebulizer attached to a closed, valved mask with PEP of 0 or 10 cm H2O. Both gas type and PEP level were blinded to the investigators. Images were acquired with a single-head scintillation camera with the longitudinal and transverse division of the right lung as regions of interest (ROIs). While all groups responded to bronchodilators, only group 1 showed increase in FEV1%predicted and IC compared to the other groups (p < 0.04). When evaluating the ROI in the vertical gradient we observed higher deposition in the middle and lower third in groups 1 (p = 0.02) and 2 (p = 0.01) compared to group 3. In the horizontal gradient, a higher deposition in the central region in groups 1 (p = 0.03) and 2 (p = 0.02) compared to group 3 and intermediate region of group 2 compared to group 3. We conclude that aerosol deposition was higher in groups with PEP independent of gas used, while bronchodilator response with Heliox + PEP improved FEV1 % and IC compared to administration with Oxygen, Oxygen with PEP and Heliox alone. Trial registration NCT01268462.

UI  - 23644905
TI  - Immunomagnetic molecular probe with UHPLC-MS/MS: a promising way for reliable bronchial asthma diagnostics based on quantification of cysteinyl leukotrienes.
AB  - A sensitive and precise method for simultaneous quantification of cysteinyl leukotrienes (=cys LTs) - leukotriene C4 (=LTC4), leukotriene D4 (=LTD4) and leukotriene E4 (=LTE4) - essential biomarkers of bronchial asthma present in exhaled breath condensate (=EBC) was developed. An immunomagnetic molecular probe was prepared by anchoring cysteinyl leukotrienes antibody on the surface of functionalized monodispersed magnetic particles and used to selectively isolate cys LTs from biological matrices - EBC, plasma and urine. Immobilization and the immunoaffinity capture procedures were optimized to maximize the amount of separated cys LTs, which were detected "off-beads" after acidic elution by UHPLC-ESI-MS/MS operated in a multiple reaction monitoring mode. The developed method was characterized with high precision 13.6% (intra-day precision determined as RSD) and 14.5% (inter-day precision determined as RSD), acceptable accuracy 18.5% (determined as RE), and high recovery of immunoseparation (93.1%) in aforementioned biological matrices. The applicability of the method was demonstrated on EBC, plasma and urine clinical samples of patients with various subtypes of bronchial asthma (occupational, steroid-resistant, moderate with and without corticosteroids therapy) and healthy subjects where reasonable differences in cys LTs concentration levels were found. Combining extremely selective immunomagnetic separation with highly sensitive and precise detection step, the developed method was used to aid diagnosis, predict the most effective therapy, and monitor the response to treatment. The detection of elevated inflammatory mediators (cys LTs) in EBC of subjects with relatively asymptomatic asthma and normal pulmonary function tests could offer a novel way for monitoring the lung inflammation and perhaps initiating treatment in an earlier stage.

UI  - 23643486
TI  - Real-life comparison of beclometasone dipropionate as an extrafine- or larger-particle formulation for asthma.
AB  - These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that delivery of beclometasone in extrafine particle size produces real-life asthma treatment benefits. Clinical trials no. NCT01400217.

UI  - 23638898
TI  - Step-down of budesonide/formoterol in early stages of asthma treatment leads to insufficient anti-inflammatory effect.
AB  - Clinicians should be more careful when stepping down budesonide/formoterol based solely on patients' symptoms and/or pulmonary function.

UI  - 23636616
TI  - Nutritional supplements and plasma antioxidants in childhood asthma.
AB  - These results indicate that nutritional supplements beneficially modulate plasma antioxidants and thus might have a positive influence on systemic redox balance and subsequently, pulmonary inflammation in asthmatic children.

UI  - 23623526
TI  - Association of CYP2C19 polymorphisms and lansoprazole-associated respiratory adverse effects in children.
AB  - Lansoprazole-associated upper respiratory infections and ST in children are related in part to CYP2C19 haplotype. Our data suggest that lansoprazole-associated adverse events in children may be mitigated by adjusting the conventional dose in PMs. Additional studies are required to replicate our findings.

UI  - 23622013
TI  - Efficacy of omalizumab in eosinophilic chronic rhinosinusitis patients with asthma.
AB  - 

UI  - 23616054
TI  - Effects of a written asthma action plan on caregivers' management of children with asthma: a cross-sectional questionnaire survey.
AB  - The WAAP improved caregivers' understanding of the disease and use of inhaled asthma medications during asthma exacerbations but did not affect their decision regarding acute visits to their physician.

UI  - 23593932
TI  - Randomized placebo-controlled trial to evaluate chronic dosing effects of propranolol in asthma.
AB  - This is the first placebo-controlled study to assess the effects of chronic nonselective -blockade in asthma, showing no significant effect of propranolol compared with placebo on either methacholine or histamine airway hyperresponsiveness and no change in ACQ or AQLQ. Clinical trial registered with www.clinicaltrials.gov (NCT01074853).

UI  - 23591273
TI  - The association of health literacy with adherence and outcomes in moderate-severe asthma.
AB  - While the relationship between literacy and health is complex, interventions that account for and address the literacy needs of patients may improve asthma outcomes.

UI  - 23589465
TI  - Hyperpolarized (3) He and (129) Xe MRI: differences in asthma before bronchodilation.
AB  - In asthma, hyperpolarized (129) Xe MRI may help reveal ventilation abnormalities before bronchodilation that are not observed using hyperpolarized (3) He MRI.

UI  - 23579324
TI  - A proof-of-concept, randomized, controlled trial of omalizumab in patients with severe, difficult-to-control, nonatopic asthma.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov; No.: NCT01007149; URL: www.clinicaltrials.gov and European Clinical Trials Database, EudraCT; No.: 2009-010937-38; URL: https://www.clinicaltrialsregister.eu.

UI  - 23578031
TI  - Inhaled fluticasone furoate/vilanterol does not affect hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis function in adolescent and adult asthma: randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study.
AB  - FF/VI was found to be non-inferior to placebo on HPA axis function, with no indication of significant cortisol suppression after 42 days.

UI  - 23576201
TI  - [Omalizumab therapy in adolescents with severe allergic asthma - results of a post-marketing surveillance].
AB  - Omalizumab can be considered a valuable add-on therapy in adolescent patients with severe allergic asthma that is inadequately controlled despite GINA step 5 treatment. A significant effect on clinical and functional parameters was shown over 12 months.

UI  - 23574000
TI  - Effectiveness of omalizumab in severe allergic asthma: a retrospective UK real-world study.
AB  - This retrospective analysis showed a reduction in exacerbations and improved QoL as per previous studies with OMB. However, the total reduction in annual steroid burden and improved lung function in this severely ill group of patients taking regular or frequent OCS is greater than that seen in previous trials.

UI  - 23566766
TI  - Knowledge of their own allergic sensitizations in asthmatic patients and its impact on the level of asthma control.
AB  - Overall knowledge about the allergic nature of their disease among asthmatic patients attending Spanish Respiratory Medicine Departments is inadequate. Furthermore, a higher degree of knowledge of their allergies does not seem to lead, by itself, to better asthma control. Both findings seem to question the effectiveness of current educational strategies in this field and consequently, they should be revised.

UI  - 23564399
TI  - Detection of exacerbations in asthma based on electronic diary data: results from the 1-year prospective BIOAIR study.
AB  - Regular electronic monitoring of PEF and asthma symptoms provides an acceptable sensitivity and specificity for the detection of SEs and may be suitable for personal internet-based monitoring of asthma control.

UI  - 23558603
TI  - Non-inferiority trial between two dry-powder inhalers containing fluticasone/salmeterol in asthmatic patients.
AB  - Asthma is an increasing pathology with poor compliance. Achievement of control is possible but under intensive treatment. In this setting, fluticasone/salmeterol association delivered by dry powder inhalers is a valuable and proved option. A prospective, parallel, open-label, phase IV, multicentre non-inferiority study was conducted to determine therapeutic similarity between 2 different inhalers: Generic DPI and Diskus, which both deliver a fluticasone/salmeterol association (CAS 80474-14-2/CAS 89365-50-4). A 103 uncontrolled asthmatic patients were randomly assigned in 2 groups, Generic (G) and Diskus (D), and received the association for 18 weeks through the appropriate device. They were evaluated according to Asthma Quality of Life Questionnaire and GINA/NIH guidelines. To demonstrate non-inferiority, the estimation of the Relative Risk between the Global Score Rate per group with its 95% confidence interval was calculated and compared against a non-inferiority margin obtained from a previous study. The Global Score Rate was 82% for G Group and 83% for D Group. The RR was 1.0124 (95% CI: 0.847-1.210). The margin set at 0.832 was not reached by the lower 95% CI (z=-2.097; p=0.018) pointing out non-inferiority. The results have demonstrated non-inferiority between groups. Thus, the 2 products are therapeutically similar.

UI  - 23557023
TI  - Real-life effectiveness of budesonide/formoterol maintenance and reliever therapy in asthma patients across Asia: SMARTASIA study.
AB  - ClinicalTrial.gov: (NCT00939341).

UI  - 23554960
TI  - Bronchodilator responsiveness and reported respiratory symptoms in an adult population.
AB  - Bronchodilator responsiveness in FEV1 or FVC are associated with different respiratory symptoms in the community. Both flow and volume bronchodilator responses are useful parameters which together can be predictive of both wheezing and breathlessness in the general population.

UI  - 23548532
TI  - Effects of 24-week add-on treatment with ciclesonide and montelukast on small airways inflammation in asthma.
AB  - umin.ac.jp/ctr Identifier: UMIN000001083.

UI  - 23541323
TI  - Small-airways deposition of dornase alfa in children with asthma and persistent airway obstruction.
AB  - 

UI  - 23537391
TI  - A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of oral montelukast in acute asthma exacerbation.
AB  - 375-Med/ERC-04.

UI  - 23530817
TI  - InternationaL cross-sectIonAl and longItudinal assessment on aSthma cONtrol in European adult patients--the LIAISON study protocol.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov identifier, NCT01567280.

UI  - 23524015
TI  - Stepping-across controlled asthmatic patients to extrafine beclometasone/formoterol combination.
AB  - Patients previously controlled with FP/S in any device formulation can effectively step-across to extrafine BDP/F pMDI, maintaining lung function and asthma control with a 5-min onset of action.

UI  - 23520319
TI  - Add-on omalizumab in children with severe allergic asthma: a 1-year real life survey.
AB  - Omalizumab has been shown to reduce exacerbation rates in moderate to severe allergic asthma. Our aim was to evaluate omalizumab efficacy and safety in a real-life setting in severe asthmatic children. 104 children (aged 6-18 years), followed up in paediatric pulmonary tertiary care centres, were included at the beginning of omalizumab treatment. Asthma control levels, exacerbations, inhaled corticosteroid dose, lung function and adverse events were evaluated over 1 year. Children were characterised by allergic sensitisation to three or more allergens (66%), high IgE levels (mean 1125 kU  L(-1)), high rate of exacerbations (4.4 per year) and healthcare use during the previous year, and high inhaled corticosteroid dose (mean 703 g equivalent fluticasone per day). Asthma control levels defined as good, partial or poor, improved from 0%, 18% and 82% at entry to 53%, 30% and 17% at week 20, and to 67%, 25% and 8% at week 52, respectively (p<0.0001). Exacerbation and hospitalisation rates dropped by 72% and 88.5%, respectively. At 12 months, forced expiratory volume in 1 s improved by 4.9% (p=0.023), and inhaled corticosteroid dose decreased by 30% (p<0.001). Six patients stopped omalizumab for related significant adverse events. Omalizumab improved asthma control in children with severe allergic asthma and was generally well tolerated. The observed benefit was greater than that reported in clinical trials.

UI  - 23514242
TI  - e-Monitoring of Asthma Therapy to Improve Compliance in children using a real-time medication monitoring system (RTMM): the e-MATIC study protocol.
AB  - Netherlands Trial Register NTR2583.

UI  - 23491407
TI  - Glucocorticoid-induced changes in gene expression of airway smooth muscle in patients with asthma.
AB  - Oral prednisolone changes the transcriptomic profile of the ASM layer in asthma. This indicates that in parallel to antiinflammatory properties, glucocorticoids also exert effects on gene expression of ASM, which is correlated with improved airway function.

UI  - 23490226
TI  - Dose-dependent anti-inflammatory effect of inhaled mometasone furoate/formoterol in subjects with asthma.
AB  - All 3MF/F doses demonstrated pronounced, clinically meaningful, dose-dependent reductions in FeNO, with reduced sputum eosinophil levels for MF/F 200/10g and MF/F 400/10g. These findings suggest both inflammatory markers may be useful in assessing corticosteroid responsiveness in asthma patients, and perhaps identifying the same asthma subphenotype. Clinical Trials.gov: NCT00635882.

UI  - 23489686
TI  - Effectiveness of omalizumab in non-allergic severe asthma.
AB  - Omalizumab is an effective drug for allergic asthma. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effectiveness and tolerance of this drug in non-allergic GINA step V asthma patients. This study was single-centre, prospective, open-label, observational, naturalistic. Non-allergic asthma patients requiring a mean dose of oral prednisolone of at least 5 mg/day during greater than or equal to 1 year or an accumulated oral corticosteroid dose/year greater than or equal to 1500 mg were enrolled. At entry and the end of the 12-month follow-up we measured blood eosinophilia and IgE concentration; at every monthly visit a forced spirometry and exhaled fraction of nitric oxide (NO) were carried out. The subjects were seven adult patients (5 female), age range 37-63 years, with the following mean values: IgE: 226.7+/-176 IU/mL; FVC 74+/-18 percent; FEV1 57+/-11 percent; NO: 21.2+/-7 ppb. The study was approved by the IRB of the hospital. One patient decided to stop treatment after 12 weeks and was excluded from the evaluation. We did not observe changes in eosinophil count, spirometry or NO values. Three patients considered responders did not need prednisolone during the follow-up. The mean daily dose of prednisolone fell from 6.6+/-8.1 mg/day at entry to 1.5+/-2.3 mg/day (p less than 0.16) at the end of follow-up. The mean monthly accumulated dose fell from 92+/-112 to 12+/-26 mg/month (p=0.26). Total blood IgE increased 1.93-fold. Side effects were only local: treatment tolerance was excellent; three out of six patients seemed to slightly benefit from anti-IgE treatment; to date there is no evidence strong enough to systematically prescribe omalizumab in non-allergic asthma patients.

UI  - 23473438
TI  - Optimizing the inhalation flow and technique through metered dose inhalers of asthmatic adults and children attending a community pharmacy.
AB  - Training by VC and a training aid helps patients use a slow IFR with an MDI and improves asthma-related quality of life.

UI  - 23471469
TI  - Exploring the effects of omalizumab in allergic asthma: an analysis of biomarkers in the EXTRA study.
AB  - The difference in exacerbation frequency between omalizumab and placebo was greatest in the three high-biomarker subgroups, probably associated with the greater risk for exacerbations in high subgroups. Additional studies are required to explore the value of these biomarkers in clinical practice. Clinical trial registered with www.clinicaltrials.gov (NCT00314574).

UI  - 23460785
TI  - Remote monitoring of inhaled bronchodilator use and weekly feedback about asthma management: an open-group, short-term pilot study of the impact on asthma control.
AB  - Weekly email reports and access to online charts summarizing remote monitoring of inhaled bronchodilator frequency and location were associated with improved asthma control and a decline in day-to-day asthma symptoms.

UI  - 23454780
TI  - The effect of educating the use of spray by visual concept mapping method on the quality of life of children with asthma.
AB  - One of the most important goals in treating chronic diseases, especially asthma, is the promotion of quality of life (QOL). The present study aimed at identifying the effect of educating method on the QOL of children, who suffered from asthma.In this clinical trial study, 80 children aged 6-12 years with asthma were divided into two groups: control (face-to-face method) and experimental (visual concept mapping method). The QOL of both groups was measured before and after educating by the Juniper's Quality of Life Questionnaire with a one-month interval.The rate of change in the QOL score of the experimental group was 0.3 (0.7) both before and after intervention and 0.1 (0.3) in the control group, which was statistically significant (p<0.05).Educating by the visual concept mapping method with regard to the manner of using sprays is taken into account as an efficient and effective method in improving the QOL of children with asthma.

UI  - 23448616
TI  - Effect of ticagrelor on pulmonary function in healthy elderly volunteers and asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease patients.
AB  - Short-term administration of high doses of ticagrelor did not appear to alter pulmonary function at rest and during exercise in subjects at risk of (healthy elderly) or with respiratory impairment (mild asthma or mild-to-moderate COPD).

UI  - 23440247
TI  - Safety and tolerability of the novel inhaled corticosteroid fluticasone furoate in combination with the 2 agonist vilanterol administered once daily for 52 weeks in patients >=12 years old with asthma: a randomised trial.
AB  - FF/VI (100/25 g or 200/25 g) administered once daily over 52 weeks was well tolerated by patients aged 12 years with asthma. The overall safety profile of FF/VI did not reveal any findings of significant clinical concern. CLINICALTRIALS.GOV: NCT01018186.

UI  - 23437933
TI  - Uptake and effectiveness of a community pharmacy intervention programme to improve asthma management.
AB  - Community pharmacy dispensing records can effectively identify patients with suboptimal asthma management, who can then be referred to their GP for review. Time constraints in busy pharmacies may limit the uptake and effectiveness of face-to-face interventions in the 'real world' setting, making mailed interventions an attractive option.

UI  - 23428122
TI  - [Effect of gamma-aminobutyric acid treatment on plasma substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide levels in children with asthma].
AB  - GABA can significantly decrease plasma levels of SP and CGRP in children suffering from acute asthma.

UI  - 23416800
TI  - Comparison of salbutamol with normal saline and salbutamol with magnesium sulphate in the treatment of severe acute asthma.
AB  - This study compared the efficacy and safety of nebulized magnesium sulphate with salbutamol to normal saline with salbutamol as the initial treatment of severe acute asthma patients. The present study was designed as a randomized open controlled clinical trial. The study was conducted Mymensingh Medical College Hospital over a period of 11 months from December 2009 to October 2010. Patients admitted with severe acute asthma having inclusion criteria were the study population. Among 120 study population 60 were in salbutamol with magnesium sulphate group and 60 were in salbutamol with normal saline group. The study finding showed that peak flow at baseline was similar in two groups. At 10 minutes after nebulization, the meanSD percentage increase in peak flow was greater in magnesium sulphate group (204%) than in the normal saline salbutamol group (133%). At 20 minutes the percentage increase in peak flow was greater in magnesium sulphate group (357%) than in the normal saline salbutamol group (246%) p value <0.001. Magnesium sulphate plus salbutamol group reached PEF near to 60% which is not in saline salbutamol group. There was no significant changed in respiratory rate, pulse rate, systolic, diastolic blood pressure and clinical evidence of unwanted adverse effect.

UI  - 23413101
TI  - Population-based efficacy modeling of omalizumab in patients with severe allergic asthma inadequately controlled with standard therapy.
AB  - Omalizumab, a recombinant humanized monoclonal antibody, is the first approved anti-immunoglobulin E (IgE) agent for the treatment of subjects with moderate to severe persistent allergic asthma that are inadequately controlled by the standard of care. The objective of this study was to quantitatively characterize relationships between serum free IgE and pulmonary function (as measured by forced expiratory volume in 1 s [FEV1]) as well as serum free IgE and airway inflammation (as measured by fractional exhaled nitric oxide [FeNO]) using population-based efficacy models. Data were collected from patients in the EXTRA trial who received omalizumab or placebo 150 to 375 mg subcutaneously every 2 or 4 weeks from week 0 to 48 with constant standard of care as background therapy. None of the covariates evaluated, including demographics, disease status, and baseline pharmacodynamic biomarkers, were significant in explaining the variability in the FEV1 or FeNO response to omalizumab. Results from the efficacy models further confirmed the current omalizumab dosing rationale based on the mean target free IgE level of 25 ng/ml and quantified the variability for the target. In addition, the resulting population models could be used to predict population FEV1 or FeNO response for omalizumab and/or other anti-IgE therapeutics for which PK-IgE models are constructed.

UI  - 23402870
TI  - Vitamin E, -tocopherol, reduces airway neutrophil recruitment after inhaled endotoxin challenge in rats and in healthy volunteers.
AB  - Epidemiologic studies suggest that dietary vitamin E is an important candidate intervention for asthma. Our group has shown that daily consumption of vitamin E (-tocopherol, T) has anti-inflammatory actions in both rodent and human phase I studies. The objective of this study was to test whether T supplementation could mitigate a model of neutrophilic airway inflammation in rats and in healthy human volunteers. F344/N rats were randomized to oral gavage with T versus placebo, followed by intranasal LPS (20g) challenge. Bronchoalveolar lavage fluid and lung histology were used to assess airway neutrophil recruitment. In a phase IIa clinical study, 13 nonasthmatic subjects completed a double-blinded, placebo-controlled crossover study in which they consumed either a T-enriched capsule or a sunflower oil placebo capsule. After 7 days of daily supplementation, they underwent an inhaled LPS challenge. Induced sputum was assessed for neutrophils 6 h after inhaled LPS. The effect of T compared to placebo on airway neutrophils post-LPS was compared using a repeated-measures analysis of variance. In rats, oral T supplementation significantly reduced tissue infiltration (p<0.05) and accumulation of airway neutrophils (p<0.05) that are elicited by intranasal LPS challenge compared to control rats. In human volunteers, T treatment significantly decreased induced sputum neutrophils (p=0.03) compared to placebo. Oral supplementation with T reduced airway neutrophil recruitment in both rat and human models of inhaled LPS challenge. These results suggest that T is a potential therapeutic candidate for prevention or treatment of neutrophilic airway inflammation in diseased populations.

UI  - 23394510
TI  - Emergency department treatment of adults with acute asthma exacerbations: effect on exhaled nitric oxide levels.
AB  - Measurement of exhaled nitric oxide levels (eNO) from asthmatic patients is a noninvasive marker of airway inflammation in both adults and children and has been used as an outpatient measure of asthma control. We examined eNO in acute asthma exacerbations and how it is affected by treatment in the emergency department (ED) setting. Both eNO and peak expiratory flow (PEF) rate were measured at arrival and before discharge for adult asthmatic subjects (n = 28) treated for acute exacerbations in the ED at Kings County Hospital Center during spring and fall pollen seasons. Total serum Immunoglobulin E (IgE), peripheral blood leukocyte numbers, and tobacco smoking history were determined. Routine ED treatment included oral prednisone at 60 mg and inhalation of nebulized albuterol and ipratropium. Both PEF (p = 0.0005) and eNO (p < 0.0001) increased after treatment of subjects. Initial eNO was associated with age (p = 0.0004), absolute eosinophil count (p = 0.003), Asthma Control Test (p = 0.004), and Asthma Quality of Life Questionnaire (p = 0.04). Change in pre- versus posttreatment eNO (eNO) was associated with change in PEF (PEF; p < 0.0001). Initial PEF was associated with oxygen saturation (p < 0.0001). PEF was associated with serum IgE levels. ED visit duration was associated with initial PEF (p = 0.0004), eNO (p = 0.004), and number of albuterol treatments (p = 0.001). These associations remained significant in multivariate models that controlled for demographic factors, asthma control, smoking, and measures of inflammation and ventilation. eNO levels increase after ED treatment of acute asthma exacerbations in adults. Improved ventilation may allow for more accurate measurement of NO produced in inflamed airways.

UI  - 23394509
TI  - Early intervention with high-dose inhaled corticosteroids for control of acute asthma exacerbations at home and improved outcomes: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Various studies have examined the efficacy of a temporary increase in the dose of inhaled corticosteroids (ICSs) during acute asthma exacerbations with conflicting results. This study was designed to investigate the efficacy of high-dose ICSs in controlling asthma exacerbations in children. Data were collected on asthmatic children, aged 2-17 years, who were maintained on ICSs. Participants were randomly assigned to a 12-day treatment protocol for acute asthma exacerbation at doses of ICS that were two, four, or eight times their maintenance ICS dose. The primary outcome was the frequency of need to progress to systemic steroid therapy. The secondary outcome was difference in symptom scores among the three treatment groups to determine if one dosing protocol was superior to another. Eighty-two of 197 enrolled patients experienced acute asthma exacerbation and completed the increased dosing protocol. No significant difference in systemic corticosteroid use was detected between patients treated with two, four, or eight times their maintenance dose of ICS, but we observed a trend toward a larger reduction in mean total symptom score with increasing ICS dose at the end of the study. We did not observe a significant difference in need for systemic corticosteroids between doubling the maintenance dose and increasing to four or eight times the dose, but we observed a trend suggesting that higher doses may improve symptoms better than doubling the dose. A more specific design may be needed to provide a more reliable answer to this question.

UI  - 23384679
TI  - The novel TLR-9 agonist QbG10 shows clinical efficacy in persistent allergic asthma.
AB  - Treatment with QbG10 may contribute to continued asthma control during steroid reduction in patients on moderate or high-dose inhaled steroids.

UI  - 23380218
TI  - Effect of montelukast for treatment of asthma in cigarette smokers.
AB  - In a population of asthmatic patients actively smoking cigarettes, both 10 mg/d montelukast and 250 g of fluticasone propionate twice daily significantly increased the mean percentage of days with asthma control compared with placebo.

UI  - 23380178
TI  - Management of Asthma in School age Children On Therapy (MASCOT): a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel study of efficacy and safety.
AB  - This project was funded by the NIHR Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol. 17, No. 4. See the HTA programme website for further project information.

UI  - 23379542
TI  - Effectiveness of a comprehensive lifestyle modification program for asthma patients: a randomized controlled pilot trial.
AB  - Preliminary findings suggest that adding a CLMP to standard care in patients with bronchial asthma offers greater clinical benefit than standard care alone and also suggest that conducting a large randomized clinical trial is feasible.

UI  - 23368897
TI  - Efficacy and safety profile of fluticasone/formoterol combination therapy compared to its individual components administered concurrently in asthma: a randomised controlled trial.
AB  - Fluticasone/formoterol combination therapy had comparable efficacy to its individual components administered concurrently, when measured by post-dose FEV1 in patients aged  12 years with mild to moderate-severe asthma. The safety and tolerability profile of fluticasone/formoterol combination therapy was similar to that of its individual components administered concurrently. Although this was an open-label study, the results remain compelling: the primary efficacy measure was a physical endpoint and study statisticians were blinded to treatment allocations until analysis was completed.

UI  - 23364390
TI  - Inhaled corticosteroid dose response using domiciliary exhaled nitric oxide in persistent asthma: the FENOtype trial.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov; No.: NCT00995657; URL: clinicaltrials.gov.

UI  - 23363065
TI  - The effect of the endothelin-1 receptor antagonist, bosentan, on patients with poorly controlled asthma: a 17-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled crossover pilot study.
AB  - In this pilot study, 4 weeks of bosentan did not improve FEV1, -agonist use, asthma symptom score, or asthma control test score in patients with poorly controlled asthma when compared with placebo.

UI  - 23356392
TI  - Accuracy of patient self-report as a measure of inhaled asthma medication use.
AB  - Self-report is inaccurate in measuring actual use of inhaled asthma treatment with patients who underuse their maintenance therapy overreporting their use and those who overuse their therapy underreporting their use.

UI  - 23352524
TI  - Asthma medication adherence: the role of God and other health locus of control factors.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT00459368.

UI  - 23350994
TI  - Effects of omalizumab in non-atopic asthma: results from a Spanish multicenter registry.
AB  - Aim. To evaluate the effectiveness of omalizumab in non-atopic asthma. Methods. Using data from a multicenter registry of severe asthma, we evaluated and compared the clinical outcome of 29 omalizumab-treated severe non-atopic asthmatics with 266 omalizumab-treated severe allergic asthmatics. Effectiveness was assessed by considering severe exacerbations, pulmonary function, the Global Evaluation of Treatment Effectiveness (GETE) scale, and Asthma Control Test (ACT). Results. Omalizumab demonstrated significant improvement in the clinical status of non-atopic asthmatics as measured by GETE, which rose from 1.6  1.1 to 2.8  0.9 [corrected] at 4 months (p = .0215) to 2.9  0.9 at 1 year (p = .0093) and to 3.4  0.6 at 2 years (p = .0078), and by the ACT, which increased from 13.3  5.5 [corrected] to 17.5  5.4 at 4 months (p = .0236) to 17.9  4.8 at 1 year (p = .0136) and to 20.6  3.9 at 2 years (p = .0024). Forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1) improved from 61.0  19.4% to 65.1  17.2 at 4 months to 64.1  24.7 at 1 year and to 67.3  23.0% [corrected] at 2 years, but without significant differences between initial and follow-up measurements (p = .52, .91, and .45, respectively) and exacerbations decreased from 3.1  3.5 to 1.9  2.8 at 1 year (p = .1709) to 1.8  4.4 at 2 years (p = .2344). The results were not significantly different from those obtained in atopic asthmatics. Conclusion. Anti-IgE therapy can be effective in non-atopic severe asthma.

UI  - 23333066
TI  - The second generation and asthma: Prevalence of asthma among Israeli born children of Ethiopian origin.
AB  - Asthma prevalence in the second generation of Israeli born children of Ethiopian origin does not seem to differ from other children in their community. This observation supports the theory that environmental exposures, rather than genetic factors, dictated the increase in asthma in this immigrant population.

UI  - 23331559
TI  - The 5-lipoxygenase-activating protein inhibitor, GSK2190915, attenuates the early and late responses to inhaled allergen in mild asthma.
AB  - GSK2190915 shows potential as a treatment for patients with asthma.

UI  - 23321206
TI  - The risk of asthma exacerbation after stopping low-dose inhaled corticosteroids: a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials.
AB  - Patients with well-controlled asthma who stop regular use of low-dose ICSs have an increased risk of an asthma exacerbation compared with those who continue ICSs.

UI  - 23318282
TI  - Discrimination of prohibited oral use from authorized inhaled treatment of budesonide in sports.
AB  - Taking into consideration the administered doses, the best compromise to discriminate between authorized inhaled administration and forbidden oral intake of BUD was found using a reporting level of 20 ng/mL of metabolite 6-hydroxy-budesonide.

UI  - 22691248
TI  - Airways allergic inflammation and L. reuterii treatment in asthmatic children.
AB  - Recently, it has been hypothesized that the oral administration of specific live probiotic strains may have therapeutic potential in the treatment of allergic inflammation. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of the oral L. reuteri DSM 17938 administration (1X108CFU), in airways allergic inflammation in mild persistent asthmatic children. In this DBPC randomized study we selected 50 children (6-14 years old), affected by mild persistent asthma (GINA step 2) and allergic to HDM. At the run-in period (T-2), the children were submitted to medical examination, prick tests for the main respiratory allergens, spirometry and children asthma control test (C-ACT). We selected only the children with well controlled asthma (C-ACT >19 and FEV1> 80%). After two weeks (T0) the children were allocated into two groups, the FeNO was measured and the breath condensate was collected. Group A children were treated with the placebo (5 drops per day) and Group B children with L. reuteri (108CFU =5 drops per day) for 60 days. After the treatment period (T1), all patients were evaluated by medical examination, C-ACT, spirometry, FeNO measurement and exaled breath condensate analysis. The FeNO values showed a significant reduction (p=0,045) in L. reuteri group but not in the placebo group at the end of the treatment (T1). Furthermore, the cytokines exam showed an increase in IL-10 levels (p less than 0.05) and a significant reduction in IL-2 levels (p less than 0.05) only in L. reuteri group at T1. No significant differences in FEV1 values and C-ACT score were found in both groups. In conclusion, these data showed that L. reuteri (108 CFU) was effective in reducing bronchial inflammation in asthmatic children. No significant effect was found on FEV1 values and C-ACT score, probably because we selected children with well controlled asthma.

UI  - 23298524
TI  - Nutrigenetic response to omega-3 fatty acids in obese asthmatics (NOOA): rationale and methods.
AB  - Uncontrolled asthma is a major cause of hospitalizations and emergency room visits. Factors including obesity, African ancestry and childhood are associated with increased asthma severity. Considering the high morbidity caused by asthma, relatively few classes of drugs exist to control this common disease. Therefore, new therapeutic strategies may be needed to reduce asthma's impact on public health. Data suggest that a high fat diet that is deficient in omega-3 fatty acids could promote both obesity and excessive inflammation, resulting in greater asthma severity. Small trials with supplemental omega-3 fatty acids have been conducted with encouraging but inconsistent results. The variability in response seen in past trials may be due to the past subjects' genetics (specifically ALOX5 rs59439148) or their particular asthma phenotypes. Therefore, the "Nutrigenetic response to Omega-3 Fatty acids in Obese Asthmatics (NOOA)" trial is currently underway and was designed as a randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled intervention study to determine if supplemental omega-3 fatty acids improves symptoms among obese adolescents and young adults with uncontrolled asthma. Here we report the design and rationale for the NOOA trial. Participants were given either 3.18 g daily of eicosapentaenoic acid and 822 mg daily docosahexaenoic acid, or matched control soy oil, for 24 weeks. Change in the asthma control questionnaire score was the primary outcome. Secondary outcomes included spirometry, impulse oscillometry, exacerbation rate, airway biomarkers, systemic inflammation, leukotriene biosynthesis and T-lymphocyte function. NOOA may lead to a new therapeutic treatment strategy and greater understanding of the mechanistic role of diet in the pathogenesis of asthma.

UI  - 23294120
TI  - Depressive symptoms, low adherence, and poor asthma outcomes in the elderly.
AB  - In this cohort of elderly inner-city participants, depressive symptoms were associated with poorer asthma control and quality of life, as well as with lower rates of adherence to controller medications. Future work exploring possible mediators, including adherence, might elucidate the relationship between depression and poorer asthma outcomes in this population.

UI  - 23292882
TI  - A randomized controlled trial to evaluate inhibition of T-cell costimulation in allergen-induced airway inflammation.
AB  - Inhibition of CD28-mediated costimulation with abatacept does not seem to alter the inflammatory response to segmental allergen challenge or clinical measures of asthma symptoms in people with mild atopic asthma. Clinical trial registered with ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT 00784459).

UI  - 23291349
TI  - Azithromycin for prevention of exacerbations in severe asthma (AZISAST): a multicentre randomised double-blind placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - Azithromycin did not reduce the rate of severe exacerbations and LRTI in patients with severe asthma. However, the significant reduction in the PEP rate in azithromycin-treated patients with non-eosinophilic severe asthma warrants further study. CLINICALTRIALS.GOV NUMBER: NCT00760838.

UI  - 23290154
TI  - Efficacy of theophylline plus salmeterol/fluticasone propionate combination therapy in patients with asthma.
AB  - The combination of theophylline plus SFC may provide greater protection against asthma exacerbations, and its administration is accompanied by significant improvements in small airway function and airway inflammation.

UI  - 23273405
TI  - Efficacy and safety of fluticasone/formoterol combination therapy in patients with moderate-to-severe asthma.
AB  - Fluticasone/formoterol combination therapy will provide clinicians with an efficacious alternative treatment option for patients with moderate-to-severe asthma.

UI  - 23270495
TI  - Feasibility and effectiveness of an evidence-based asthma service in Australian community pharmacies: a pragmatic cluster randomized trial.
AB  - The pharmacy asthma service delivered clinically important improvements in both a three-visit and four-visit service. Pharmacists were able to recruit and deliver the service with minimal intervention, suggesting it is practical to implement in practice. The three-visit service would be feasible and effective to implement, with a review at 12 months.

UI  - 23265285
TI  - Prospective, open-label assessment of albuterol sulfate hydrofluoroalkane metered-dose inhaler with new integrated dose counter.
AB  - Metered-dose inhalers (MDIs) allow patients who require therapy for various respiratory diseases to deliver these therapies directly to the airways via inhalation. MDIs are designed to contain more propellant than required for administration of the labeled number of actuations; therefore, the amount of active medication/actuation remaining after administration of the labeled number of actuations may result in a lower than therapeutic dose of active medication. An MDI with an integrated dose counter provides the only reliable means by which a patient can track the amount of medication remaining in the MDI. This study evaluated the functionality, reliability, accuracy, and patient satisfaction with albuterol sulfate hydrofluoroalkane (HFA) MDI with a new integrated dose counter in the clinical setting. Patients aged 4 years with asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, or both, participated in this phase 4, prospective, open-label study. Treatment was twice-daily dosing with albuterol HFA MDI at 90 micrograms with dose counter for either 5 or 7 weeks. Concordance/agreement between daily patient recordings of actuations and counter readings was assessed with five discrepancy types: fire not count (undercount; primary end point), count not fire (overcount), fire count up within a dose (counter reading increased, instead of decreased, after MDI was actuated), count unknown fire (counter number at the beginning of a dosing session was less than counter number at the end of the previous session), and count up unknown fire (counter number at the beginning of a dosing session was greater than counter number at the end of the previous session). Responses to twelve questions designed to evaluate confidence, ease of use, and patient satisfaction were also analyzed. Overall discrepancy rate was 1.87 per 200 actuations. Primary end point (fire not count rate) was 0.30 per 200 actuations. Overall, ~95-97% of patients were "very satisfied" or "somewhat satisfied" with the albuterol HFA MDI with dose counter, its ease of use, and the ability to tell when it should be replaced. The albuterol HFA MDI with new integrated dose counter functioned reliably and accurately in the clinical setting. Overall patient satisfaction was high with the albuterol HFA MDI with new integrated dose counter and the device was shown to function reliably and accurately. Clinicaltrials.gov identifier: NCT01302587.

UI  - 23262451
TI  - Inhaled magnesium sulphate in the treatment of bronchial hyperresponsiveness.
AB  - To investigate the effects of inhaled MgSO(4) alone and in association with a (2-)agonist in the treatment of bronchial hyperresponsiveness. Methods. We conducted a placebo-controlled, double-blind clinical trial with seventy six adult patients with bronchial hyperresponsiveness. Subjects were randomized into four groups receiving four inhaled products at the end of methacholine (Mech) challenge: NaCl 0.9%, MgSO(4)alone, (2-)agonist alone, and the combination of MgSO(4)+ (2-)agonist. Repeated measures of the forced expiratory volume at 1s (FEV(1)) were performed at 0, 5, 10, and 20 minutes after the end of the inhalations. In the MgSO(4)and MgSO(4)+ (2-)agonist groups, a blood sample was taken before and after inhalation to determine serum magnesium levels. Results. (1) Inhaled MgSO(4) led to a significant improvement of the FEV(1) from the 15(th) minute after its inhalation. (2) (2-)agonist significantly increased FEV(1) from the 5(th)minute (3) inhaled MgSO(4) + (2-)agonist led to a significantly greater FEV(1) from the 5(th)minute than inhaled MgSO(4)alone or inhaled (2-)agonist alone (p<0.05) (4) There is a correlation between low serum magnesium level and the increase in FEV(1)after inhalation of MgSO(4) + (2-)agonist (p<0.001). Conclusion Inhaled MgSO(4), in combination with (2-)agonist, appears to have benefits in the treatment of bronchial hyperresponsiveness, especially when associated with hypomagnesemia.

UI  - 23257685
TI  - Sputum hyaluronan and versican in severe eosinophilic asthma.
AB  - Sputum hyaluronan values are reduced with mepolizumab therapy and correlate with improved clinical and spirometry values, suggesting this measurement may serve as a noninvasive biomarker of asthma control.

UI  - 23257680
TI  - Effect of nebulized beclomethasone on airway inflammation and clinical status of children with allergic asthma and rhinitis: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study.
AB  - We aimed to evaluate the therapeutic effect of nebulized beclomethasone dipropionate (nBDP) on both allergic asthma and rhinitis. In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study, 40 children (mean age 10.7  2.1 years) with allergic asthma and rhinitis received either nBDP (daily dose of 800 g, administered twice daily) or placebo for 4 weeks (with a face mask), after a 2-week run-in period of clinical assessment. Nasal and oral fractional exhaled nitric oxide (FeNO) measurements together with pulmonary function tests, nasal and oral exhaled breath condensate (EBC) collection for pH and interleukin-5 (IL-5) measurements as well as nasal and bronchial symptom scores were obtained at baseline and after 4-week treatment. A significant improvement in oral FeNO, oral and nasal EBC IL-5 and nasal EBC pH was observed in the nBDP group when comparing the values with baseline, together with an improvement in symptom score of the visual analogue scale, nasal obstruction, sneezing, rhinorrhea, breathing difficulty, cough, wheezing and sleep disturbance (nBDP end treatment vs. baseline, Wilcoxon signed-rank test). nBDP was more effective than placebo (ANCOVA test) in improving [difference  = response after treatment at the last visit (active or placebo) - value at baseline] nasal pH, oral IL-5, oral FeNO, forced expiratory volume in 1 s, forced expiratory volume in 1 s/forced vital capacity, peek expiratory flow, visual analogue scale, breathing difficulty, cough, wheezing and sleep disturbance scores. No differences were observed between the nBDP and the placebo group for symptom score of rhinitis. nBDP is a useful treatment for airway inflammation and clinical status in children with concomitant allergic asthma and rhinitis.

UI  - 23257347
TI  - Inhaled pan-selectin antagonist Bimosiamose attenuates airway inflammation in COPD.
AB  - Selectins, a family of cell adhesion molecules, are involved in leukocyte extravasation to sites of inflammation. We investigated the safety and efficacy of the inhaled pan-selectin antagonist Bimosiamose in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). 77 COPD patients (mean forced expiratory volume in 1s, 57% pred.) were enrolled in a cross-over, double-blind, randomized, Placebo-controlled, multi-center trial. Bimosiamose (10mg) or Placebo was inhaled twice daily via the breath actuated nebulizer Akita2 Apixneb for 28 days on top of standard bronchodilator therapy. Efficacy was assessed by measurement of inflammatory parameters in induced sputum (differential cell count, interleukin-8, matrix-metalloproteinase-9, myeloperoxidase) and lung function at day 28 of both treatment periods. The total adverse event ratio of Bimosiamose compared to Placebo treatment was balanced. Comparedto Placebo, treatment with Bimosiamose led to a decrease of the interleukin-8 concentration (-9.49ng/mL, 95%CI-18.8 to-2.7ng/mL, p=0.008), for the neutrophil count a difference of-0.36810(6)cells/mL (95%CI-1.256 to 0.407  10(6)/mL, p=0.313) was found. The macrophage count decreased by -0.20010(6)cells/mL (95%CI-0.365 to-0.04410(6)cells/mL, p=0.012). Most lung function parameters showed a small numeric increase. Inhalation of Bimosiamose for 28 days was safe and well tolerated in patients with COPD. It led to an attenuation of airway inflammation (EudraCT 2009-017257-35; NCT ID: NCT01108913).

UI  - 23248342
TI  - Efficacy of a parent-youth teamwork intervention to promote adherence in pediatric asthma.
AB  - Results suggest support for the efficacy of TI for improving medication adherence as youth acquire more responsibility for their asthma management.

UI  - 23244616
TI  - Factors associated with patient visits to the emergency department for asthma therapy.
AB  - This study demonstrates that many avoidable risk factors lead to uncontrolled asthma and frequent ED visits.

UI  - 23236769
TI  - [Clinical study on prevention of recurrence of asthma in children by Xiaochuangao acupoint paste: treating winter diseases in summer].
AB  - XAP played a role in preventing the recurrence of asthma in children. Combined with hormone, XAP showed better effects.

UI  - 23226539
TI  - Airway hyperresponsiveness and quality of life in Western red cedar asthmatics removed from exposure.
AB  - In Western red cedar asthmatics removed from exposure, measures of airway responsiveness are associated with HRQL.

UI  - 23216798
TI  - 1-year prospective real life monitoring of asthma control and quality of life in Italy.
AB  - An improvement in asthma control and QoL can be achieved during a 1-year monitoring in a real life setting. Extrafine beclomethasone/formoterol was associated with significant benefit in terms of asthma control and QoL compared to large-particles combinations.ClinicalTrials.gov number NCT01110460.

UI  - 23211647
TI  - Reduced medication use and improved pulmonary function with supplements containing vegetable and fruit concentrate, fish oil and probiotics in asthmatic school children: a randomised controlled trial.
AB  - Dietary pattern changes may be one of the key factors associated with increasing asthma prevalence. Observational studies have found negative associations between fruit, vegetable and fish consumption and risk of asthma. Experimental studies have also shown that probiotics can modulate the immune system. However, each dietary component exhibits a modest effect. The objective of the present study was to investigate the joint effect of multiple beneficial dietary components on asthma. We designed a 16-week school-based double-blind placebo-controlled randomised trial. The supplement group received fruit plus vegetable concentrate, fish oil and probiotics (FVFP supplement), while the control group received placebos. A total of 192 asthmatic children aged 10-12 years were recruited from elementary schools in metropolitan Taipei. Pulmonary function, medication usage, Paediatric Asthma Quality of Life Questionnaire (PAQLQ) score and the Childhood Asthma Control Test score were evaluated at baseline, and at weeks 8 and 16. Compared with the placebo group, the supplement group showed significant improvement in pulmonary function parameters (91 v. 178 ml for forced vital capacity (FVC), 40 v. 107 ml for forced expiratory volume in 1 s (FEV1) and 16 v. 48 % for FEV1:FVC ratio; all P values < 001) and had a significantly reduced proportion of those using short-acting inhaled bronchodilators and inhaled corticosteroids. However, the PAQLQ score and the Childhood Asthma Control Test score were not significantly different between the two groups, possibly because the majority of the children were treated routinely. FVFP supplements reduced medication use and improved pulmonary function in asthmatic children. The present study supports an adjuvant intervention with a combination of fruit, vegetable, fish and probiotic foods.

UI  - 23195335
TI  - Aspirin-intolerant asthma in the Korean population: prevalence and characteristics based on a questionnaire survey.
AB  - Based on histories, the prevalence of aspirin-intolerant asthma is 5.8% among adult asthma patients in Korea. Aspirin-intolerant asthma is associated with lower age, higher prevalence of rhinosinusitis and atopic dermatitis, and more frequent exacerbations.

UI  - 23189924
TI  - Long-term effects of negotiated treatment plans on self-management behaviors and satisfaction with care among women with asthma.
AB  - Women with asthma who had a negotiated treatment plan were more likely to see an asthma specialist. In the long-term, not having a treatment plan that is developed in partnership with a clinician may have an adverse impact on medication use and patient views of clinical services.

UI  - 23176889
TI  - Fear of repeated injections in children younger than 4 years receiving subcutaneous allergy immunotherapy.
AB  - clinicaltrial.gov identifier NCT01028560.

UI  - 23176887
TI  - Salbutamol tolerance to bronchoprotection: course of onset.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT01338311.

UI  - 23176879
TI  - Sensitivity of impulse oscillometry and spirometry in beta-blocker induced bronchoconstriction and beta-agonist bronchodilatation in asthma.
AB  - IOS is a more sensitive response outcome than spirometry with respect to bronchoconstriction to oral propranolol and bronchodilatation after salbutamol in patients with mild to moderate asthma.

UI  - 23176189
TI  - A valved holding chamber does not decrease the bronchodilator activity of budesonide-formoterol combination metered dose inhaler.
AB  - In well-trained asthmatic subjects, both tested methods caused equivalent bronchodilation. This suggests a VHC itself has no deleterious effect on the bronchodilator activity in the combined drug. These results may not apply to patients who have coordination problems with the pMDI and further study is indicated.

UI  - 23174659
TI  - Safety and efficacy of the prostaglandin D2 receptor antagonist AMG 853 in asthmatic patients.
AB  - AMG 853 as an add-on to inhaled corticosteroid therapy demonstrated no associated risks but was not effective at improving asthma symptoms or lung function in patients with inadequately controlled moderate-to-severe asthma.

UI  - 23174592
TI  - [Effect of house dust mite vaccine on pulmonary function and inhaled corticosteroid doses in children with allergic asthma].
AB  - SCIT combined with ICS can improve the ventilation function of the large airways early after the commencement of treatment, but its effect on small airways can be delayed. SCIT for 2 years shows a good therapeutic effect and can reduce the doses of ICS in children with mild to moderate allergic asthma.

UI  - 23157172
TI  - Salt chamber treatment is ineffective in treating eosinophilic inflammation in asthma.
AB  - The reduction in hyper-responsiveness observed in the previous study is probably not due to the effect on eosinophilic inflammation.

UI  - 23152066
TI  - [Asthma bronchiale: lung function is affected by coffeine].
AB  - 

UI  - 23143849
TI  - Obesity in children with poorly controlled asthma: Sex differences.
AB  - Obesity did not affect asthma control, airway markers or disease stability; however obesity did affect lung function in a sex-dependent manner. In males, obesity associated with reduced FEV1/FVC, and in females, obesity associated with substantially improved lung function.

UI  - 23129148
TI  - High-dose magnesium sulfate infusion protocol for status asthmaticus: a safety and pharmacokinetics cohort study.
AB  - The continuous infusions of MgSO(4) were safe at the studied doses and maintained serum magnesium (SrMg) and ionized magnesium levels similar to levels required to produce smooth muscle relaxation in other clinical settings. Further studies are needed to investigate the efficacy of high-dose continuous MgSO(4) infusion as an adjunctive treatment for severe asthma treatment and determine the SrMg level required to maintain airway smooth muscle relaxation.

UI  - 23126384
TI  - Tailored second-line therapy in asthmatic children with the Arg(16) genotype.
AB  - The Arg(16) (2) receptor genotype confers increased susceptibility to exacerbations in asthmatic children taking regular LABA (long-acting (2) agonists). We therefore evaluated using montelukast as an alternative to salmeterol as tailored second-line asthma controller therapy in children expressing this susceptible genotype. A total of 62 persistent asthmatic children with the homozygous Arg16 genotype were randomized to receive salmeterol (50 g, b.i.d.) or montelukast (5 or 10 mg, once daily) as an add-on to inhaled fluticasone for 1 year. School absences (the primary outcome) were reduced with montelukast compared with salmeterol {difference in score=-0.40 [95% CI (confidence interval), -0.22 to -0.58]; P=0.005}. Salbutamol use was also reduced with montelukast compared with salmeterol [difference in score=-0.47 (95% CI, -0.16 to -0.79); P<0.0001]. Greater improvements occurred in both symptom and quality of life scores with montelukast against salmeterol, whereas there was no difference in FEV(1) (forced expiratory volume in 1 s). In conclusion, montelukast may be suitable as tailored second-line controller therapy instead of salmeterol in asthmatic children expressing the susceptible Arg(16) genotype, a move towards a personalized medicine approach to management.

UI  - 23126237
TI  - Budesonide/formoterol maintenance and reliever therapy via Turbuhaler versus fixed-dose budesonide/formoterol plus terbutaline in patients with asthma: phase III study results.
AB  - Budesonide/formoterol maintenance and reliever therapy provided more effective asthma control, including a prolonged time to first severe asthma exacerbation, than budesonide/formoterol plus terbutaline and was well tolerated. Budesonide/formoterol maintenance and reliever therapy also improved lung function and asthma symptoms.

UI  - 23123925
TI  - Difference in time-course of improvement in asthma control measures between budesonide and budesonide/formoterol.
AB  - Combinations of inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) and inhaled long-acting beta(2)-agonists (LABA) have become widely used for the initiation of maintenance treatment for asthma. However, it has not been fully elucidated whether ICS/LABA alters the time-course of different control outcome measures in steroid-naive patients with asthma compared to the treatment with ICS alone. We compared the time-response in Asthma Control Questionnaire (ACQ), forced expiratory volume in 1s (FEV1), exhaled nitric oxide fraction (FE(NO)), and airway responsiveness to methacholine (PD(200)) between budesonide (BUD) and budesonide/formoterol (BUD/FM). BUD/FM therapy significantly improved the ACQ score at week 2 and week 4 (p<0.01 and p<0.05), and increased FEV1 and the methacholine threshold at week 8 and week 24 (all p<0.05) compared to BUD alone. A logistic function model showed that the BUD/FM combination significantly improved ACQ, FEV1, FE(NO) and PD(200) at a faster rate than BUD over 24 weeks (p<0.001 for ACQ, FEV1, PD(200), and p<0.05 for FE(NO), z-test). A significant variance in the time-response was also found in the outcomes of the two treatment groups (FE(NO) and ACQ>FEV1 and PD(200), p<0.001, z-test). The present study provides evidence that ICS/LABA combination therapy results in a more rapid improvement in asthma symptoms, lung function, and airway inflammation compared to ICS monotherapy in steroid-naive patients with asthma.

UI  - 23102189
TI  - Fluticasone/formoterol combination therapy versus budesonide/formoterol for the treatment of asthma: a randomized, controlled, non-inferiority trial of efficacy and safety.
AB  - This study demonstrated comparable efficacy of fluticasone/formoterol to budesonide/formoterol in terms of the primary endpoint, change in pre-dose FEV from baseline to Week 12. This was supported by comparable results for both treatments for all secondary endpoints.

UI  - 23098359
TI  - Effects of low-dose fluticasone propionate/salmeterol combination therapy on exhaled nitric oxide and nitrite/nitrate in breath condensates from patients with mild persistent asthma.
AB  - Treatment of mild persistent, steroid-nave asthmatics with low-dose combination therapy is effective in rapidly reducing airway inflammation and AHR. Our results suggest different metabolic origins for nitrite, nitrate, and FE(NO) in this group of patients.

UI  - 23098325
TI  - Long-term safety and efficacy of fluticasone/formoterol combination therapy in asthma.
AB  - Fluticasone/formoterol had a good safety and efficacy profile over the 6- and 12-month study periods.

UI  - 23094708
TI  - Evaluation of bedoradrine sulfate (MN-221), a novel, highly selective beta2-adrenergic receptor agonist for the treatment of asthma via intravenous infusion.
AB  - The safety profile of MN-221 and evidence of dose- and plasma-concentration-related bronchodilation supports further clinical development and suggests the potential for clinical benefit without increased clinical risk, particularly for patients where inhaled or nebulized therapy is not adequate or possible. Trial registry name and registration number:Name: MN-221-CL-005Number: NCT00679263.

UI  - 23083840
TI  - Concomitant asthma medications in moderate-to-severe allergic asthma treated with omalizumab.
AB  - Omalizumab therapy initiation was associated with decreased doses of ICS, SABA, and LTM over 2 years of follow-up for the majority of patients in a "real-world" cohort study of moderate-to-severe allergic asthma patients.

UI  - 23081745
TI  - Onset of bronchodilation with fluticasone/formoterol combination versus fluticasone/salmeterol in an open-label, randomized study.
AB  - These analyses showed that fluticasone/formoterol provided a faster onset of bronchodilation than fluticasone/salmeterol, which was maintained over 12 weeks of treatment. This benefit may facilitate treatment adherence among patients with asthma.

UI  - 23078148
TI  - Safety and efficacy of fluticasone/formoterol combination therapy in adolescent and adult patients with mild-to-moderate asthma: a randomised controlled trial.
AB  - Fluticasone/formoterol had a good safety and tolerability profile and showed statistically superior efficacy for the three co-primary endpoints compared to fluticasone, formoterol, and placebo, in adolescents and adults with mild-to-moderate asthma. EudraCT number: 2007-002866-36; US NCT number: NCT00393991.

UI  - 23073336
TI  - Effects of tiotropium on lung function in severe asthmatics with or without emphysematous changes.
AB  - The effects of tiotropium, an inhaled long-acting anti-cholinergic agent, on lung function were investigated in obstructed severe asthmatics with and without emphysematous changes despite maximal recommended treatments with high-dose of inhaled glucocorticoids and inhaled long-acting (2)-agonists. We conducted a double-blind, placebo-controlled study of an inhaled single-dose of tiotropium in 18 asthmatics with emphysema and 18 without emphysema in a crossover manner. The primary efficacy outcome was the relative change in forced expiratory volume in 1s (FEV(1)) from baseline to 60min, and the secondary outcome was a relative change in FEV(1) from baseline to 12h. Subsequently, the patients were treated with tiotropium inhaled once daily for 12 weeks in an open label manner, and lung function and symptoms were evaluated. At baseline, patients with or without emphysema had a mean FEV(1) of 55.9% before tiotropium and 56.8% before placebo, or 77.4% before tiotropium and 77.6% before placebo of the predicted value and were taking a mean dose of inhaled glucocorticoids of 1444 or 1422g/day. Among patients with emphysema, the increase from baseline FEV(1) was 12.6 percentage points higher at 60min after tiotropium than after placebo. Among patients without emphysema, the increase from baseline FEV(1) was 5.4 percentage points higher at 60min after tiotropium than after placebo. Tiotropium resulted in improved lung function and symptoms in asthmatics with and without emphysema. These findings suggest that tiotropium will provide a new strategy for the treatment of bronchial asthma and of overlapping asthma and COPD.

UI  - 23062392
TI  - Once-daily fluticasone furoate is efficacious in patients with symptomatic asthma on low-dose inhaled corticosteroids.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00603278.

UI  - 23062388
TI  - Correlation of vitamin D with Foxp3 induction and steroid-sparing effect of immunotherapy in asthmatic children.
AB  - The efficacy of allergen SIT correlates with 25(OH)D serum concentration. It seems that a serum level of 25(OH)D higher than 30 ng/mL facilitates the optimal effect of allergen immunotherapy.

UI  - 23047989
TI  - The effect of a single dose of acetaminophen on airways response in children with asthma.
AB  - One single dose of acetaminophen neither evokes a bronchoconstriction response nor an increase in airway inflammation in children with asthma.

UI  - 23038624
TI  - Prednisolone reduces the ability of serum to activate the IGF1 receptor in vitro without affecting circulating total or free IGF1.
AB  - Our study gives evidence that GC treatment induces a circulating substance that is able to inhibit IGF1R activation in vitro without affecting circulating free or total IGF1. This may be one of the mechanisms by which GC inhibits IGF1 action in vivo. However, the nature of this circulating substance remains to be identified.

UI  - 23033885
TI  - An electronic diary is shown to be more reliable than a paper diary: results from a randomized crossover study in patients with persistent asthma.
AB  - Acceptable reproducibility of the percentage of RFD (ICC = 0.78) was only observed for the e-diary using the FEV(1) stability criterion. The ICCs for SFD and RFD were acceptable, 0.84 and 0.70, respectively, suggesting better reliability for the e-diary.

UI  - 23033807
TI  - Iloprost inhalation in mild asthma.
AB  - Inhaled iloprost in carefully selected volunteers with mild asthma appears to be a suitable intervention to explore the effects of prostacyclin in human asthma.

UI  - 23024023
TI  - The utility of fractional exhaled nitric oxide suppression in the identification of nonadherence in difficult asthma.
AB  - Fe(NO) suppression after DOICS provides an objective test to distinguish adherent from nonadherent patients with difficult asthma. Clinical trial registered with www.clinicaltrials.gov (NCT 01219036).

UI  - 23021878
TI  - Omalizumab is effective in allergic and nonallergic patients with nasal polyps and asthma.
AB  - Omalizumab demonstrated clinical efficacy in the treatment of nasal polyps with comorbid asthma, supporting the importance and functionality of local IgE formation in the airways.

UI  - 23005919
TI  - Comparison of the bronchodilating effects of albuterol delivered by valved vs. non-valved spacers in pediatric asthma.
AB  - In stable asthmatic children, albuterol administered through MDI using a non-valved spacer produces a bronchodilator response similar to that of a spacer with a valve that requires an inhalatory opening pressure (with flows between 2 and 32 l/min) that even toddlers with bronchial obstruction can easily generate.

UI  - 23000726
TI  - Effects of transdermal tulobuterol in pediatric asthma patients on long-term leukotriene receptor antagonist therapy: results of a randomized, open-label, multicenter clinical trial in Japanese children aged 4-12 years.
AB  - These results suggest that short-term use of a transdermal (2) agonist is an effective therapy for pediatric asthma without inducing airway inflammation in children on long-term LTRA therapy.

UI  - 23000724
TI  - Repeated-dose pharmacokinetics of inhaled ciclesonide (CIC-HFA) in Japanese children with bronchial asthma: a phase I study.
AB  - Our results suggest that there is little difference in the pharmacokinetics of des-isobutyryl-ciclesonide up on repeated administration of CIC-HFA between Japanese and Caucasian children with bronchial asthma. And our study suggests that CIC-HFA (200 g/day, once daily) can be administered safely for 7 days, without raising any safety concerns.

UI  - 22991952
TI  - Factors associated with completion of a behavioral intervention for caregivers of urban children with asthma.
AB  - The majority of caregivers of high-risk children with asthma were successfully engaged in this home and PCP-based intervention. Caregivers of older children with asthma and those with high stress may need additional support for program completion. Further, the lack of an asthma action plan may be a marker of preexisting barriers to preventive care.

UI  - 22982562
TI  - Association of airway pentosidine levels with bronchodilator response mediated by salbutamol administration in asthmatic patients.
AB  - Our results showed that pentosidine might be a potential biomarker reflecting the reduced bronchodilator response in asthma. This study will provide new insights into the mechanisms underlying persistent airway obstruction.

UI  - 22978728
TI  - Practice patterns in asthma discharge pharmacotherapy in pediatric emergency departments: a pediatric emergency research Canada study.
AB  - The overwhelming majority of children discharged from Canadian pediatric EDs with acute asthma are prescribed inhaled albuterol via MDIs. Although the corticosteroid use at discharge is higher than previously reported, utilization of new prescriptions for ICS may not be optimal. Children presenting during daytime to EDs receiving intensive stabilization are more likely to receive the albuterol/oral steroid/ICS combination.

UI  - 22978309
TI  - Patients with asthma benefit from concomitant therapy with cineole: a placebo-controlled, double-blind trial.
AB  - Concomitant therapy using cineole can lead to notable improvement in lung function and health condition as well as to reduce dyspnea in asthma patients.

UI  - 22978252
TI  - Pharmacokinetic comparison of inhaled fixed combination vs. the free combination of beclomethasone and formoterol pMDIs in asthmatic children.
AB  - BDP and formoterol pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic effects are non-superior after administration of the two actives as fixed vs. the free combination in 5-11-year-old asthmatic children.

UI  - 22974768
TI  - Changes in asthma treatment in the Spanish Cohort of the European Community Respiratory Health Survey (ECRHS) from 1991-2001: a perspective over time.
AB  - 

UI  - 22968888
TI  - Comparison of physician-, biomarker-, and symptom-based strategies for adjustment of inhaled corticosteroid therapy in adults with asthma: the BASALT randomized controlled trial.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00495157.

UI  - 22964926
TI  - Evaluation of the efficacy and safety of a fixed-dose, single-capsule budesonide-formoterol combination in uncontrolled asthma: a randomized, double-blind, multicenter, controlled clinical trial.
AB  - The single-capsule combination of budesonide and formoterol appears to be efficacious and safe. Our results indicate that this formulation is a valid therapeutic option for obtaining and maintaining asthma control. (ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT01676987 [http://www.clinicaltrials.gov/]).

UI  - 22958052
TI  - The ARGA study with Italian general practitioners: prescriptions for allergic rhinitis and adherence to ARIA guidelines.
AB  - Adherence to ARIA guidelines is satisfactory only for treatment of more severe patients, thus GPs often tend to treat patients independently from ARIA guidelines. Since prescription data only provide limited information to judge prescribing quality, some deviation from the gold standard are to be expected.

UI  - 22955894
TI  - The association of ethnicity with electronically measured adherence to inhaled corticosteroids in children.
AB  - In our Western European population of inner city children with asthma, poor adherence to ICS was a serious problem, and even somewhat more so in ethnic minorities. Paediatricians involved in asthma treatment should be aware of these cultural differences in medication-taking behaviour, but further studies are needed to elucidate the causal mechanism.

UI  - 22955319
TI  - Airway epithelial miRNA expression is altered in asthma.
AB  - Dramatic alterations of airway epithelial cell miRNA levels are a common feature of asthma. These alterations are only modestly corrected by inhaled corticosteroids. IL-13 effects may account for some of these alterations, including repression of miR-34/449 family members that have established roles in airway epithelial cell differentiation. Clinical trial registered with www.clinicaltrials.gov (NCT 00595153).

UI  - 22948442
TI  - Omalizumab protects against allergen- induced bronchoconstriction in allergic (immunoglobulin E-mediated) asthma.
AB  - Omalizumab blocked early asthmatic responses over a broad range of IgE/body weight combinations. Extending the dosing tables enables omalizumab to benefit a wider range of patients.

UI  - 22938716
TI  - Effect of inhaled glucocorticoids in childhood on adult height.
AB  - The initial decrease in attained height associated with the use of inhaled glucocorticoids in prepubertal children persisted as a reduction in adult height, although the decrease was not progressive or cumulative. (Funded by the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute and the National Center for Research Resources; CAMP ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00000575.).

UI  - 22938706
TI  - Tiotropium in asthma poorly controlled with standard combination therapy.
AB  - In patients with poorly controlled asthma despite the use of inhaled glucocorticoids and LABAs, the addition of tiotropium significantly increased the time to the first severe exacerbation and provided modest sustained bronchodilation. (Funded by Boehringer Ingelheim and Pfizer; ClinicalTrials.gov numbers, NCT00772538 and NCT00776984.).

UI  - 22932169
TI  - Budesonide/formoterol maintenance and reliever therapy in Chinese patients with asthma.
AB  - In Chinese patients with persistent asthma, BUD/FORM decreased severe and mild exacerbations, decreased reliever use, increased symptom-free days, and improved morning/evening PEF compared with SALM/FP. There were no significant differences in time to first severe exacerbation or other assessments regarding daily asthma control between BUD/FORM and SALM/FP. BUD/FORM was more effective in this Chinese sub-group than in the total cohort involved in the original study.

UI  - 22926233
TI  - A randomized, comparative, multicentric clinical trial to assess the efficacy and safety of zileuton extended-release tablets with montelukast sodium tablets in patients suffering from chronic persistent asthma.
AB  - Leukotriene (LT) modifiers are anti-inflammatory drugs that are useful as an add-on therapy with first-line asthma-controller medications. This group includes LT synthesis inhibitors (eg, Zileuton) and receptor antagonists (eg, Montelukast), whose direct comparative clinical data are not available. This study was conducted to assess the comparative efficacy and safety of orally administered Zileuton extended-release (ER) with Montelukast sodium in patients suffering from chronic persistent asthma. Patients of 18-65 years of age with mild to moderate chronic stable asthma were randomized to treatment with Zileuton ER 2400 mg/d or Montelukast 10 mg/d for 12 weeks. Peak expiratory flow rate (PEFR) and asthma symptoms (cough, wheeze, chest tightness, and shortness of breath each on a 4-point scale) were assessed on monthly scheduled out-patient visits. Safety assessments by clinical and laboratory parameters were carried out during the course of the study. Among 210 patients eligible for efficacy assessment, PEFR improved by 64.8  52.8 (95% confidence interval: 54.8-74.7) L/min with Zileuton ER (n = 109) and 40.6  47.5 (31.3-49.9) L/min with Montelukast (n = 101; P < 0.001), whereas percent improvements were 27.0% (22.6%-31.5%) versus 18.4% (14.1%-22.7%), respectively (P = 0.006). Zileuton ER lead to 12% PEFR improvements in 74 of 109 [67.9% (59.1%-76.7%)] patients, whereas the same was noted in 52 of 101 [51.5% (41.7%-61.2%)] patients receiving Montelukast (P = 0.015). The reduction in the mean overall symptom intensity score was also significantly better with Zileuton ER [-5.0  2.1 (4.6-5.4) versus -4.2  2.3 (3.8-4.7)] (P = 0.018); however, the same was not observed for the decline in the individual symptom scores. A lesser but not significantly different adverse event rate was reported in the Zileuton ER group than the Montelukast group with the commonest events being headache and gastrointestinal effects in both the groups. Thus, Zileuton ER seems to be more efficacious than Montelukast and well tolerated for the treatment of mild to moderate chronic persistent asthma in adult patient population. Further studies can elucidate the comparative treatment benefits of these LT modifiers in asthma management.

UI  - 22909281
TI  - Single dose oral dexamethasone versus multi-dose prednisolone in the treatment of acute exacerbations of asthma in children who attend the emergency department: study protocol for a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - ISRCTN26944158 and EudraCT Number 2010-022001-18.

UI  - 22884459
TI  - Monitoring free serum IgE in severe asthma patients treated with omalizumab.
AB  - Monitoring free IgE and omalizumab serum concentrations in patients treated with omalizumab does not predict clinical response nor does it add to the decision to continue or stop treatment. However, routine measurements of free IgE may be clinically relevant to demonstrate an adequate reduction in free IgE in patients not responding to omalizumab therapy.

UI  - 22882543
TI  - Transient sputum eosinophilia may occur over time in non-eosinophilic asthma and this is not prevented by salmeterol.
AB  - Low sputum eosinophil numbers persisted over 6 months in a majority of patients with non-eosinophilic asthma who received salmeterol monotherapy. However, transient sputum eosinophilia occurred in 40% indicating that non-eosinophilic asthma may not be a stable phenotype.

UI  - 22878848
TI  - Asthma beliefs are associated with medication adherence in older asthmatics.
AB  - Illness and treatment beliefs have a strong influence on self-reported medication adherence in older asthmatics. Interventions to improve medication adherence in older asthmatics by modifying illness and treatment beliefs warrant study.

UI  - 22868522
TI  - [Clinical effects of budesonide/formoterol combination drug in elder patients with asthma compared with budesonide plus tulobuterol patch combination treatment].
AB  - In elder patients with asthma, treatment with BUD/FM does not have any clinical disadvantage and may provide better efficacy in lung function, QOL, and possibly anti-inflammation compared with BUD plus Tulo treatment.

UI  - 22859321
TI  - Effectiveness of magnesium sulfate as initial treatment of acute severe asthma in children, conducted in a tertiary-level university hospital: a randomized, controlled trial.
AB  - Intravenous infusion of magnesium sulfate during the first hour of hospitalization in patients with acute severe asthma significantly reduced the percentage of children who required mechanical ventilation support.

UI  - 22859320
TI  - Original salbutamol versus similar salbutamol in children with asthma exacerbation: a randomized, controlled, double-blind study.
AB  - There were no differences in the bronchodilator response measured by FEV1 between the original salbutamol and a similar salbutamol product.

UI  - 22856637
TI  - Salivary cortisol monitoring: determination of reference values in healthy children and application in asthmatic children.
AB  - Venipuncture testing of adrenocortical function in asthmatic infants and young children receiving inhaled corticosteroids can raise cortisol levels and mask physiological responses. This study aimed to establish reference ranges for salivary cortisol levels and evaluate the safety and effects of jet-nebulized budesonide inhalation suspension (BIS) on salivary cortisol levels and patient outcomes in infants and young children with mild or persistent asthma. Reference salivary cortisol levels were determined in healthy children aged 6 months to 4 years old. A 12-week multicenter, randomized, parallel-group, open-label study was performed involving 53 age-matched asthmatic children who received either 0.5 mg/day of BIS or 40-60 mg/day of cromolyn sodium inhalation suspension (CIS) via compressor nebulizer. The effective measuring range of salivary cortisol concentration in asthmatic children was 0.12-3.00 micrograms/dL. The upper and lower limits of the reference range were 0.827 and 0.076 micrograms/dL, respectively. No significant difference was seen from baseline through week 12 in the CIS and BIS groups. BIS was safe in these patients, with no inhibitory effects on adrenocortical function. Salivary cortisol measurement offers a useful and accurate tool for testing adrenocortical function in infants and young children. Longer-term studies that incorporate testing of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis are warranted to confirm our findings.

UI  - 22843108
TI  - Formoterol concentrations in blood and urine: the World Anti-Doping Agency 2012 regulations.
AB  - We found no significant differences in urinary and serum concentrations of formoterol between asthmatic and healthy subjects. We found high interindividual variability in the concentrations in all groups. Our data support the WADA 2012 urinary threshold of 30 ngmL(-1) formoterol as being an adverse analytical finding.

UI  - 22842339
TI  - Relief of methacholine-induced bronchospasm with extrafine beclomethasone dipropionate/formoterol in comparison with salbutamol in asthma.
AB  - BDP/FF combination has a fast onset of action, similar to that of salbutamol, and may represent a good alternative as rescue medication in asthmatic patients.

UI  - 22840253
TI  - Recruitment, asthma characteristics, and medication behaviors in Midwestern Puerto Rican youth: data from Project CURA.
AB  - Puerto Rican youth in the Midwest bear a significant asthma burden in addition to other stressors, including depression. Visual inspection of medications and monitoring of adherence are critical for understanding asthma morbidity in this high-risk population.

UI  - 22835804
TI  - The effects of combining Web-based eHealth with telephone nurse case management for pediatric asthma control: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Clinicaltrials.gov NCT00214383; http://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT00214383 (Archived by WebCite at http://www.webcitation.org/68OVwqMPz).

UI  - 22816878
TI  - The effect of budesonide/formoterol maintenance and reliever therapy on the risk of severe asthma exacerbations following episodes of high reliever use: an exploratory analysis of two randomised, controlled studies with comparisons to standard therapy.
AB  - These studies do not have registration numbers as they were conducted before clinical trial registration was required.

UI  - 22798322
TI  - Effect of vitamin D and inhaled corticosteroid treatment on lung function in children.
AB  - In children with asthma treated with inhaled corticosteroids, vitamin D deficiency is associated with poorer lung function than in children with vitamin D insufficiency or sufficiency.

UI  - 22796247
TI  - Efficacy and safety profile of fluticasone furoate administered once daily in the morning or evening: a randomized, double-blind, double-dummy, placebo-controlled trial in adult and adolescent patients with persistent bronchial asthma.
AB  - FF Rotadisk administered once daily in the morning or evening was well tolerated and associated with improvements in lung function and asthma symptoms compared with placebo. Improvements seen for FF Rotadisk 100 g appear to be comparable for morning and evening dosing. Clinical.trials.govNCT01499446.

UI  - 22793527
TI  - Longitudinal changes in asthma control with omalizumab: 2-year interim data from the EXCELS Study.
AB  - Over a 2-year period, patients initiating omalizumab therapy experienced clinically relevant improvements in asthma control, which were maintained during 2 years of longitudinal follow-up. Established users of omalizumab maintained asthma control over the 2-year period with a small improvement similar to that seen in non-omalizumab users.

UI  - 22785264
TI  - The school-based preventive asthma care trial: results of a pilot study.
AB  - The SB-PACT intervention demonstrated feasibility and improved outcomes across multiple measures in this pilot study. Future work will focus on further integration of preventive care delivery across community and primary care systems.

UI  - 22781199
TI  - [The efficacy of nebulized budesonide in acute moderate to severe exacerbations of asthma in children].
AB  - Nebulized BUD in high dose and at short intervals combined with rapid-acting bronchodilators has an additional bronchodilator response, associated with more rapid and better improvement in clinical symptoms and lung function, indicating that it is preferred in the early management of acute moderate to severe exacerbation of asthma in children.

UI  - 22773713
TI  - Azithromycin for bronchial asthma in adults: an effectiveness trial.
AB  - Adults with asthma who were randomized to azithromycin did not show statistically significant improvement in asthma outcomes, although the study was underpowered to detect clinical improvement in 15% (number needed to treat = 7). Adults with severe persistent asthma who elected OL treatment documented clinical improvements in asthma symptoms, AQL, and asthma control that persisted after completion of OL azithromycin (number needed to treat = 2).

UI  - 22768682
TI  - [Measurement of inspiratory flow for the selection of the inhalation treatment device for asthma and COPD].
AB  - Significant proportion of patients with asthma or COPD with significant bronchoobstruction do not exhibit satisfactory inspiratory flows for the use of dry powder inhaler (DPI) devices (Diskus < Turbuhaler). Spirometry is not to be used for selection of the device for drug application and In-check Dial should be used instead.

UI  - 22767151
TI  - Acute supra-therapeutic oral terbutaline administration has no ergogenic effect in non-asthmatic athletes.
AB  - This study aimed to investigate the effects on a possible improvement in aerobic and anaerobic performance of oral terbutaline (TER) at a supra-therapeutic dose in 7 healthy competitive male athletes. On day 1, ventilatory threshold, maximum oxygen uptake [Formula: see text] and corresponding power output were measured and used to determine the exercise load on days 2 and 3. On days 2 and 3, 8mg of TER or placebo were orally administered in a double-blind process to athletes who rested for 3h, and then performed a battery of tests including a force-velocity exercise test, running sprint and a maximal endurance cycling test at 50% (50% between VT and [Formula: see text]). Lactatemia, anaerobic parameters and endurance performance ([Formula: see text] and time until exhaustion) were raised during the corresponding tests. We found that TER administration did not improve any of the parameters of aerobic performance (p>0.05). In addition, no change in [Formula: see text] kinetic parameters was found with TER compared to placebo (p>0.05). Moreover, no enhancement of the force-velocity relationship was observed during sprint exercises after TER intake (p>0.05) and, on the contrary, maximal strength decreased significantly after TER intake (p<0.05) but maximal power remained unchanged (p>0.05). In conclusion, oral acute administration of TER at a supra-therapeutic dose seems to be without any relevant ergogenic effect on anaerobic and aerobic performances in healthy athletes. However, all participants experienced adverse side effects such as tremors.

UI  - 22746973
TI  - Effects of a short course of pranlukast combined with systemic corticosteroid on acute asthma exacerbation induced by upper respiratory tract infection.
AB  - The combination of an LTRA and CS might be more useful than CS alone for treating URI-induced acute exacerbation of asthma and reducing the cumulative CS dose.

UI  - 22743678
TI  - A phase II placebo-controlled study of tralokinumab in moderate-to-severe asthma.
AB  - Pre-clinical data demonstrate a pivotal role for interleukin (IL)-13 in the development and maintenance of asthma. This study assessed the effects of tralokinumab, an investigational human IL-13-neutralising immunoglobulin G4 monoclonal antibody, in adults with moderate-to-severe uncontrolled asthma despite controller therapies. 194 subjects were randomised to receive tralokinumab (150, 300 or 600 mg) or placebo subcutaneously every 2 weeks. Primary end-point was change from baseline in mean Asthma Control Questionnaire score (ACQ-6; ACQ mean of six individual item scores) at week 13 comparing placebo and combined tralokinumab dose groups. Secondary end-points included pre-bronchodilator lung function, rescue (2)-agonist use and safety. Numerical end-points are reported as meansd. At week 13, change from baseline in ACQ-6 was -0.761.04 for tralokinumab versus -0.610.90 for placebo (p=0.375). Increases from baseline in forced expiratory volume in 1 s (FEV(1)) were 0.210.38 L versus 0.060.48 L (p=0.072), with a dose-response observed across the tralokinumab doses tested. (2)-agonist use (puffs per day) was decreased for tralokinumab -0.681.45 versus placebo -0.101.49 (p=0.020). The increase in FEV(1) following tralokinumab treatment remained evident 12 weeks after the final dose. Safety profile was acceptable with no serious adverse events related to tralokinumab. No improvement in ACQ-6 was observed, although tralokinumab treatment was associated with improved lung function.

UI  - 22742205
TI  - The efficacy and tolerability of intravenous montelukast in acute asthma exacerbations in Japanese patients.
AB  - IV montelukast was significantly more effective than placebo in the improvement of FEV(1) in Japanese patients, suggesting its role as an adjunctive therapy to existing guideline recommendations.

UI  - 22741746
TI  - The reliability and patient acceptability of the SmartTrack device: a new electronic monitor and reminder device for metered dose inhalers.
AB  - The ST has acceptable reliability and utility comparable to other electronic monitoring devices. Its remote data upload capability, reminder functions for missed doses, and graphical display of medication use for patient- and physician-feedback are useful additional features.

UI  - 22737977
TI  - Systemic levels of ceruloplasmin oxidase activity in allergic asthma and allergic rhinitis.
AB  - Our data suggest that hs-CRP and COA levels might be an indicator of an inflammation and important in revelation of patients with allergy related diseases, especially of asthma patients.

UI  - 22737706
TI  - Effects of the tulobuterol patch on the treatment of acute asthma exacerbations in young children.
AB  - The tulobuterol patch (TP) is a beta(2)-adrenergic agonist with a favorable pharmacokinetic profile used for asthma management in Japan. Because it contains tulobuterol in a molecular, crystallized form that is gradually absorbed percutaneously, TP exerts a prolonged bronchodilator effect exceeding 24 hours. Although it is a well-established treatment for asthma and wheezing, few studies have investigated whether it can reduce or prevent the symptoms associated with upper respiratory tract infections (URTIs) in young children. This study evaluated the effect of TP on the long-term management of asthma in young children. In this 1-year, randomized, multicenter, double-blind, placebo-controlled study, children aged 0.5-3 years old with mild-to-moderate persistent asthma were treated with either TP or placebo patch. The parents/guardians applied the TP or placebo patch to their children after URTI symptoms appeared. Respiratory symptoms were recorded daily during the 1-year observation period. Overall, 86 patients were enrolled and 80 were treated and analyzed in this study. All patients had been treated with anti-inflammatory drugs before enrollment. The time to symptom resolution was significantly shorter (p = 0.001) and the total respiratory symptom score (p = 0.0457) was significantly lower in the TP group than in the placebo group. In young children with mild-to-moderate asthma who had been treated with anti-inflammatory drugs, using the TP soon after the appearance of URTI symptoms led to quicker resolution of respiratory symptoms and lower respiratory symptom scores.

UI  - 22731754
TI  - Step-down from high dose fixed combination therapy in asthma patients: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov NCT00497237.

UI  - 22216772
TI  - Use of health information technology to improve medication adherence.
AB  - An HIT-based adherence intervention shows potential for supporting medication adherence in patients with chronic diseases such as asthma. However, additional research is needed to determine how best to enhance the reach and effectiveness of such interventions.

UI  - 22727164
TI  - The use of the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors  agonist rosiglitazone to treat airway hyperreactivity.
AB  - 

UI  - 22727160
TI  - Salmeterol and fluticasone in young children with multiple-trigger wheeze.
AB  - Pathway of clinical trial registry of Helsinki University:http://www.hus.fi/?Path=1;28;2530;9899;9900;23618;23903;33578.

UI  - 22715910
TI  - Effectiveness of educational interventions on asthma self-management in Punjabi and Chinese asthma patients: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Participants performed significantly better at follow-up than they did at baseline assessment, with the most notable improvements observed in the group that watched both community and knowledge videos. The results suggest that short, simple, culturally, and linguistically appropriate interventions can promote knowledge gain about asthma and improve inhaler use that can be sustained over the short term. Such interventions that provide authentic learning materials that draw on patients' life experiences and sociocultural context can overcome certain limitations of conventional patient education approaches.

UI  - 22702508
TI  - Safety and efficacy of a CXCR2 antagonist in patients with severe asthma and sputum neutrophils: a randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial.
AB  - This new treatment provides an opportunity to investigate the role of neutrophils in severe asthma with potential clinical benefits. Larger studies of longer duration are needed to evaluate the impact on other outcomes of asthma including exacerbations.

UI  - 22694932
TI  - Key findings and clinical implications from The Epidemiology and Natural History of Asthma: Outcomes and Treatment Regimens (TENOR) study.
AB  - Patients with severe or difficult-to-treat asthma are an understudied population but account for considerable asthma morbidity, mortality, and costs. The Epidemiology and Natural History of Asthma: Outcomes and Treatment Regimens (TENOR) study was a large, 3-year, multicenter, observational cohort study of 4756 patients (n=3489 adults  18 years of age, n=497 adolescents 13-17 years of age, and n=770 children 6-12 years of age) with severe or difficult-to-treat asthma. TENOR's primary objective was to characterize the natural history of disease in this cohort. Data assessed semiannually and annually included demographics, medical history, comorbidities, asthma control, asthma-related health care use, medication use, lung function, IgE levels, self-reported asthma triggers, and asthma-related quality of life. We highlight the key findings and clinical implications from more than 25 peer-reviewed TENOR publications. Regardless of age, patients with severe or difficult-to-treat asthma demonstrated high rates of health care use and substantial asthma burden despite receiving multiple long-term controller medications. Recent exacerbation history was the strongest predictor of future asthma exacerbations. Uncontrolled asthma, as defined by the 2007 National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute guidelines' impairment domain, was highly prevalent and predictive of future asthma exacerbations; this assessment can be used to identify high-risk patients. IgE and allergen sensitization played a role in the majority of severe or difficult-to-treat asthmatic patients.

UI  - 22694878
TI  - Improving parental adherence with asthma treatment guidelines: a randomized controlled trial of an interactive website.
AB  - A tailored interactive website shows some benefit in improving controller medication adherence during a period of active intervention.

UI  - 22691240
TI  - Comparison of pharmacy-based measures of medication adherence.
AB  - The study was funded by grant R01HL83433 from the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute (NHLBI) and is filed as study NCT00414817 in the clinicaltrials.gov database.

UI  - 22691109
TI  - Dose emission characteristics of placebo PulmoSphere particles are unaffected by a subject's inhalation maneuver.
AB  - Inertial impaction that is largely independent of a subject's inhalation maneuver can be achieved with a drug/device combination product comprising a porous particle formulation and blister-based inhaler.

UI  - 22685051
TI  - The oral corticosteroid-sparing effect of omalizumab in children with severe asthma.
AB  - A 16-week therapeutic trial of omalizumab allowed a significant reduction in daily prednisolone dose and was associated with improvements in asthma control and quality of life in 34 children with severe asthma. Similar benefits were seen in children both above and below 12 years of age. These uncontrolled data are very encouraging. There is an urgent requirement for a multicentre randomised placebo-controlled trial of omalizumab in children with severe asthma, with reduction in oral corticosteroid dose as the primary outcome measure.

UI  - 22656403
TI  - Patient and phaRmacist telephonic encounters (PARTE) in an underserved rural patient population with asthma: results of a pilot study.
AB  - This telepharmacy intervention is feasible and showed indicators of effectiveness, suggesting the design is well suited for a robust study to evaluate its impact in uncontrolled asthma patients. Pharmacists helping patients manage asthma through telecommunications may resolve access barriers and improve care.

UI  - 22650140
TI  - [New percutaneous absorption herbal patch for asthma of paracmasis and its effect on the relative transcription factors of patients].
AB  - It is concluded that the new percutaneous absorption herbal patch has exact effect on asthma. The treatment may reverse the imbalance condition of Th1/Th2 through regulation on cell factor and its specific transcription factors.

UI  - 22616628
TI  - A phase 1, randomized, placebo-controlled, dose-escalation study of an anti-IL-13 monoclonal antibody in healthy subjects and mild asthmatics.
AB  - GSK679586 demonstrated dose-dependent pharmacological activity in the lungs of mild intermittent asthmatics. These findings, together with the favourable safety profile and advantageous PK characteristics of a monoclonal antibody (e.g. a long half-life supporting less frequent dosing), warrant further investigation of GSK679586 in a broader asthma patient population.

UI  - 22608570
TI  - Corticosteroid use and bone mineral accretion in children with asthma: effect modification by vitamin D.
AB  - Vitamin D levels significantly modified the effect of OCSs on BMA in boys. Further research is needed to examine whether vitamin D supplementation in children with poorly controlled asthma might confer benefits to bone health.

UI  - 22607479
TI  - Budesonide/formoterol maintenance and reliever therapy in Asian patients (aged 16 years) with asthma: a sub-analysis of the COSMOS study.
AB  - In patients (aged 16 years) enrolled from Asian countries as part of the COSMOS study, the budesonide/formoterol maintenance and reliever regimen was associated with a lower future risk of exacerbations versus the physicians' free choice of salmeterol/fluticasone propionate dose plus salbutamol. Single inhaler combination treatment with maintenance plus as-needed budesonide/formoterol was also at least as efficacious as salmeterol/fluticasone propionate dose plus salbutamol in improving current asthma control.

UI  - 22592572
TI  - Effect of vitamin C administration on leukocyte vitamin C level and severity of bronchial asthma.
AB  - Oxidative stress mediated by reactive oxygen species is known to contribute to the inflammatory process of bronchial asthma. Reactive oxygen species are released into the bronchial tree by activated inflammatory cells. In this study, we aimed to determine the effect of vitamin C administration on leukocyte vitamin C level as well as severity of asthma. In this double blind clinical trial study we evaluated 60 patients with chronic stable asthma. The patients were divided into two groups (A and B) including 30 patients in each group. Patients in these groups were matched according to their age, weight, height, gender, BMI and drug consumption. In addition to standard asthma treatment (according to stepwise therapy in 4th step of bronchial asthma) in which the patients were controlled appropriately, group A received 1000 mg vitamin C daily and group B received placebo. At the baseline and after one month treatment, non-fasting blood samples were drawn for laboratory evaluations. Asthmatic patient's clinical condition was evaluated through standard pulmonary function test (PFT). The mean (SD) leukocyte vitamin C level in group A at the baseline and after one month treatment with 1000 mg/day vitamin C, were 0.0903 (0.0787) g/108 leukocytes and 0.1400 (0.0953) g/108 leukocytes respectively (P<0.05). The mean (SD) leukocyte vitamin C level in group B at the baseline and after one month administration of placebo, were 0.0867 (0.0629) g/108 leukocytes and 0.0805(0.0736) g/108 leukocytes respectively. The leukocyte vitamin C level in group A was higher than those of group B after one month treatment with vitamin C and placebo and the difference was statistically significant (P<0.05). Comparing PFT (FEV1, FVC and FEV1/FVC) in group B during the study period showed a significant increase in FEV1 (P<0.05), while the other two parameters remained unchanged. In group A, who received 1000 mg/day vitamin C, none of the spirometry parameters changed after one month treatment, indicating no effect of vitamin C treatment in the spirometry parameters.

UI  - 22581823
TI  - Clinical management and outcome of refractory asthma in the UK from the British Thoracic Society Difficult Asthma Registry.
AB  - Refractory asthma represents a significant unmet clinical need. Data from a national online registry audited clinical outcome in 349 adults with refractory asthma from four UK specialist centres in the British Thoracic Society Difficult Asthma Network. At follow-up, lung function improved, with a reduction in important healthcare outcomes, specifically hospital admission, unscheduled healthcare visits and rescue courses of oral steroids. The most frequent therapeutic intervention was maintenance oral corticosteroids and most steroid sparing agents (apart from omalizumab) demonstrated minimal steroid sparing benefit. A significant unmet clinical need remains in this group, specifically a requirement for therapies which reduce systemic steroid exposure.

UI  - 22580235
TI  - The use of rhDNAse in severely ill, non-intubated adult asthmatics refractory to bronchodilators: a pilot study.
AB  - In this pilot study rhDNAse did not cause clinical improvement among severely ill adults refractory to standardized care. The observed trend to higher FEV(1) among the most severely obstructed patients is an exploratory finding that may warrant further study. This clinical trial was registered as NCT00169962 under the name "Study of Pulmozyme to Treat Severe Asthma Episodes".

UI  - 22573022
TI  - Omalizumab versus 'usual care': results from a naturalistic longitudinal study in routine care.
AB  - Substantial beneficial effects of omalizumab, similar to those observed in controlled trials and after marketing studies, were confirmed, particularly with regard to the reduction of asthma attacks, persistence of symptoms, asthma control and reduction of concomitant asthma medications. This study provides a tougher test and generalizable evidence for the effectiveness of omalizumab in routine care.

UI  - 22568828
TI  - Inhaled and systemic corticosteroid response in severe asthma assessed by alveolar nitric oxide: a randomized crossover pilot study of add-on therapy.
AB  - In severe asthma, CA(NO) is insensitive to changes in dose and delivery of inhaled corticosteroids and is not suppressed by systemic corticosteroids. Additional inhaled HFA-BDP reduced FE(NO) and Jaw(NO) without adrenal suppression. There was a trend to reduction in FE(NO) and Jaw(NO) with additional FP but this did not reach statistical significance. PRED reduced FE(NO) and Jaw(NO) with suppression of systemic inflammatory markers and urinary cortisol.

UI  - 22566417
TI  - Medication adherence among Latino and non-Latino white children with asthma.
AB  - Adherence to controller medications was lower among Latino children in our sample. Targeted interventions that capitalize on existing family resources, emphasize structure, and address parental beliefs about the importance of medications may be of benefit to families from different cultural backgrounds.

UI  - 22559839
TI  - Effect of 2-adrenergic receptor gene (ADRB2) 3' untranslated region polymorphisms on inhaled corticosteroid/long-acting 2-adrenergic agonist response.
AB  - The extensive sequence diversity present in the poly-C repeat region of the ADRB2 3'UTR did not predict therapeutic response to ICS/LABA therapy.

UI  - 22551116
TI  - Montelukast as an add-on therapy to inhaled corticosteroids in the treatment of severe asthma in elderly patients.
AB  - Severe asthma in elderly patients is very poorly treated, with this population exhibiting very low compliance with antiasthmatic therapy. Adding montelukast provides benefits and improved control; however, it does not resolve severe asthma control problems.

UI  - 22541248
TI  - IL-4 receptor polymorphisms predict reduction in asthma exacerbations during response to an anti-IL-4 receptor  antagonist.
AB  - This study demonstrates a significant pharmacogenetic interaction between anti-IL-4 receptor  therapy and IL4RA gene variation, identifying an asthma subgroup that is more responsive to therapy with this antagonist.

UI  - 22541245
TI  - Long-term safety and asthma control measures with a budesonide/formoterol pressurized metered-dose inhaler in African American asthmatic patients: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - In this population budesonide/formoterol pMDI was well tolerated over 12 months, with a safety profile similar to that of budesonide; the asthma exacerbation rate was reduced by 38.5% versus budesonide.

UI  - 22538805
TI  - Genome-wide association identifies the T gene as a novel asthma pharmacogenetic locus.
AB  - Genome-wide association has identified the T gene as a novel pharmacogenetic locus for inhaled corticosteroid response in asthma.

UI  - 22534533
TI  - The effect of montelukast, budesonide alone, and in combination on exercise-induced bronchoconstriction.
AB  - 

UI  - 22530959
TI  - Asthma severity, exacerbation risk, and controller treatment burden in underweight and obese children.
AB  - We assessed the diagnostic severity, pulmonary function, exacerbation prevalence, and controller treatment level in 10,559 new asthma patients seen at one of four pediatric asthma subspecialty clinics among three BMI groups. Participants were analyzed by body mass index (BMI)-percentile based on Centers for Disease Control & Prevention classification. Multivariable logistic regression models were used to assess the associations between BMI-percentile cohort group and asthma outcomes. RESULTS. Underweight asthmatics were rare (2.5%) relative to obese asthmatics but appeared to have the greatest impairment in forced vital capacity and had the greatest controller treatment burden. Obese asthmatic children made up 26.2% of our cohort and were more likely to have severe disease (odds ratio (OR) 1.40, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.06-1.85) and airflow obstruction (OR 1.36, 95% CI 1.16-1.59) compared to normal weight asthmatics. Obese asthmatics were not at greater risk for exacerbation (OR 1.41, 95% CI 0.64-3.11) or high treatment burden (OR 1.03, 95% CI 0.83-1.28). CONCLUSIONS. Obesity is more common than underweight status among children with asthma. Both underweight and obese children with asthma have worse lung function and asthma-related outcomes compared to similar normal weight children, though the phenotypic characteristics of underweight and obese asthmatics differed considerably.

UI  - 22520084
TI  - Efficacy and optimal dosing interval of the long-acting beta agonist, vilanterol, in persistent asthma: a randomised trial.
AB  - Once-daily treatment with VI was well tolerated and associated with improvements in lung function. The VI 6.25 mcg twice-daily dose showed the greatest change in trough FEV(1), however, similar changes in weighted mean 24-h FEV(1) with VI 12.5 mcg once-daily were observed. Although our study was not powered to demonstrate non-inferiority of once- versus twice-daily dosing of VI, the data suggest no advantage over a 24-h period of twice-daily over once-daily dosing for the same total daily dose. ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT00980200.

UI  - 22519127
TI  - Airways hyperresponsiveness to different inhaled combination therapies in adolescent asthmatics.
AB  - After 4 weeks of inhaled combined therapy, these patients improved their pulmonary function and bronchomotricity. Those under budesonide/formoterol showed the highest improvement. These medications are a safe measure in controlling the asthma in these patients.

UI  - 22502622
TI  - Nutritional supplement therapy improves oxidative stress, immune response, pulmonary function, and quality of life in allergic asthma patients: an open-label pilot study.
AB  - Our results indicate that nutritional supplement therapy may improve dysregulated oxidant and antioxidant status, inflammation and immune responses, pulmonary function, and health-related quality of life in patients with mild to moderate allergic asthma.

UI  - 22496329
TI  - Inhibition of the asthmatic allergen challenge response by the CRTH2 antagonist OC000459.
AB  - CRTH2 (chemoattractant receptor expressed on T-helper (Th) type 2 cells) is a G-protein-coupled receptor expressed by Th2 lymphocytes and eosinophils that mediates prostaglandin (PG)D(2)-driven chemotaxis. We studied the efficacy of the oral CRTH2 antagonist OC000459 in steroid-nave asthmatic patients. A randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, two-way crossover study of 16 days' treatment with OC000459 (200 mg twice daily) on the late (LAR) and early (EAR) asthmatic responses to bronchial allergen challenge was conducted, with 16 subjects completing the study. There was a 25.4% (95% CI 5.1-45.6%) reduction in the LAR area under the curve (AUC) for change in forced expiratory volume in 1 s with OC000459 compared with placebo (p=0.018) but no effect on the EAR. Sputum eosinophil counts at 1 day post-allergen challenge were lower after OC000459 treatment (p=0.002). PGD(2)-induced blood eosinophil shape change ex vivo was assessed at day 7 (n=7). The AUC of eosinophil shift for OC000459 was lower than placebo; the mean difference was -33.6% (95% CI -66.8- -0.4%; p=0.048). OC000459 treatment inhibited LAR and post-allergen increase in sputum eosinophils. This CRTH2 antagonist appears to inhibit allergic inflammation in asthma.

UI  - 22493927
TI  - [Treatment of infantile asthma in remission stage with Chinese medicine and new moxibustion-massage apparatus].
AB  - It is held that the combination of new moxibustion-massage apparatus and Chinese medicine for infantile asthma in remission stage has obvious therapeutic effect, which can reduce the attack of asthma and alleviate symptoms. The result is better than suspended moxibustion.

UI  - 22486488
TI  - How do children and their caregivers perceive the benefits of inhaled asthma therapy?
AB  - While asthma symptoms prevent adults and children from participating in different types of activities (e.g., school, employment), children and their parents report the same benefits as previously reported in adults with asthma.

UI  - 22484721
TI  - A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study assessing the safety and tolerability of regadenoson in subjects with asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
AB  - This information may be helpful to physicians selecting a pharmacologic stress agent for MPI in patients with asthma or COPD.

UI  - 22479740
TI  - Oral versus intravenous steroids in acute exacerbation of asthma--randomized controlled study.
AB  - Corticosteroids administered orally and IV had similar efficacy in the treatment of adults hospitalized with acute exacerbation of bronchial asthma.

UI  - 22475519
TI  - Factors related with the higher percentage of hospitalizations due to asthma amongst women: the FRIAM study.
AB  - In this cohort, the rate of hospitalization for asthma was higher in women than in men. Being a woman between the ages of 40 and 60 is associated with previous hospitalizations and is a risk factor for asthma-related hospitalization. This situation could partially be explained by the hormonal changes during menopause, where polyposis and obesity are independent risk factors.

UI  - 22469451
TI  - Relationship of 25-hydroxyvitamin D and asthma control in children.
AB  - 

UI  - 22469168
TI  - Partner randomized controlled trial: study protocol and coaching intervention.
AB  - Twenty-two practices (66 physicians) were randomized (11 per treatment group), and 950 families with a child 3-12 years old with persistent asthma were enrolled. A description of the coaching intervention is presented.

UI  - 22465214
TI  - Methacholine challenge test: diagnostic characteristics in asthmatic patients receiving controller medications.
AB  - The utility of the MCT to rule out a diagnosis of asthma depends on racial and atopic characteristics. Clinicians should take into account the reduced sensitivity of the MCT in white and nonatopic asthmatic patients when using this test for the diagnosis of asthma.

UI  - 22461370
TI  - Interaction between asthma and lung function growth in early life.
AB  - Children developing asthma by age 7 had a lung function deficit and increased bronchial responsiveness as neonates. This lung function deficit progressed to age 7. Therefore, research into the origins and prevention of asthma should consider early life before and after birth.

UI  - 22457014
TI  - Salbutamol but not ipratropium abolishes leukotriene D4-induced gas exchange abnormalities in asthma.
AB  - Despite the equal bronchodilatory effects of salbutamol and ipratropium before the challenge with LTD(4), salbutamol was superior to ipratropium in preventing spirometric and gas exchange abnormalities. This result indicates a broader action of salbutamol on several of the disturbances that contribute to airway obstruction including, for example, exudation of plasma in the airway mucosa. The clinical implication of this new finding is that in this model of acute asthmatic airway obstruction, salbutamol was more effective than ipratropium.

UI  - 22455402
TI  - Working toward a sustainable system of asthma care: development of the School-Based Preventive Asthma Care Technology (SB-PACT) trial.
AB  - This program is designed to promote sustainability of school-based asthma care, reduce program costs, and ultimately succeed in a real-world setting. With further refinements, it has the potential to be implemented nationally in schools.

UI  - 22449663
TI  - Asthma control and management changes in Japan: questionnaire survey.
AB  - In the actual clinical setting, asthma control seems to be progressing well with the appropriate changes of medication according to the guidelines, and in part due to inhaled corticosteroid use. However, there were two problems which need to be addressed: 1) no improvement in some asthmatic conditions and 2) the occurrence of emergency episodes related to asthma deaths. In the future, it will be necessary to manage asthma in view of these points.

UI  - 22449144
TI  - Utilization and responsiveness of the asthma control test (ACT) at the initiation of therapy for patients with asthma: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - ISRCTN31998214.

UI  - 22441635
TI  - Effect of switching from salmeterol/fluticasone to formoterol/ budesonide combinations in patients with uncontrolled asthma.
AB  - Switching ICS/LABA combination therapy is a useful option in the management of asthma that is not optimally controlled.

UI  - 22438232
TI  - Prospective follow-up of novel markers of bone turnover in persistent asthmatics exposed to low and high doses of inhaled ciclesonide over 12 months.
AB  - Higher doses of inhaled ciclesonide do not adversely affect sensitive markers of bone turnover in persistent asthmatics over 12 months.

UI  - 22435735
TI  - Natural-source d--tocopheryl acetate inhibits oxidant stress and modulates atopic asthma in humans in vivo.
AB  - Inhibition of oxidant stress by natural-source d--tocopheryl acetate modulates allergic inflammation and airway hyperresponsiveness in human atopic asthmatics in vivo. These results need to be confirmed by a randomized placebo-controlled trial.

UI  - 22433020
TI  - Effect of clarithromycin on acute asthma exacerbations in children: an open randomized study.
AB  - When added to regular treatment, a 3-wk course of clarithromycin was associated with an increase in the number of symptom-free days, reductions in the number and severity of days with loss of control following index episode, and a decrease in the duration of the initial asthma exacerbation.

UI  - 22430452
TI  - Triage nurse initiation of corticosteroids in pediatric asthma is associated with improved emergency department efficiency.
AB  - Triage nurse initiation of oral corticosteroid before physician assessment was associated with reduced times to clinical improvement and discharge, and reduced admission rates in children presenting with moderate to severe acute asthma exacerbations.

UI  - 22426910
TI  - Dermatophagoides in childhood asthma. Allergy to dermatophagoides associates more severe childhood asthma with a potential role for acaricides.
AB  - Hypersensitivity to HDM is an important factor for persistent and severe forms of asthma. Acaricides can help control childhood asthma, and we recommend SPT as part of the routine work-up of patients with asthma to determine HDM sensitive patients that can benefit from acaricides use.

UI  - 22410507
TI  - Early administration of systemic corticosteroids reduces hospital admission rates for children with moderate and severe asthma exacerbation.
AB  - In this study of children with moderate or severe asthma, administration of systemic corticosteroids within 75 minutes of triage decreased hospital admission rate and length of active treatment, suggesting that early administration of systemic corticosteroids may allow for optimal effectiveness.

UI  - 22409211
TI  - Heart rate-lowering efficacy and respiratory safety of ivabradine in patients with obstructive airway disease: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover study.
AB  - Registered at www.clinicaltrials.gov (NCT01365286).

UI  - 22403504
TI  - Effects of add-on therapy with NDC-052, an extract from Magnoliae Flos, in adult asthmatic patients receiving inhaled corticosteroids.
AB  - The addition of NDC-052 to ICS had a beneficial effect on asthma control in patients with mild to moderate asthma, with good tolerability and fewer side effects. Further studies are necessary to evaluate the effects of NDC-052 in patients with severe and/or refractory asthma.

UI  - 22394648
TI  - Bronchodilatory effect of inhaled budesonide/formoterol and budesonide/salbutamol in acute asthma: a double-blind, randomized controlled trial.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT00900874.

UI  - 22388343
TI  - The pharmacokinetic profile of inhaled and oral salbutamol in elite athletes with asthma and nonasthmatic subjects.
AB  - We found no significant difference in pharmacokinetic profile of inhaled and oral salbutamol between elite athletes with asthma and nonasthmatic subjects. Our results indicate that urine salbutamol concentrations should be corrected for urine specific gravity when evaluating doping cases.

UI  - 22379070
TI  - Sputum inflammatory phenotypes are not stable in children with asthma.
AB  - Raised levels of inflammatory cells were frequently found in children with asthma of all severities. Sputum inflammatory phenotype was not stable in children with asthma.

UI  - 22362859
TI  - 24-h duration of the novel LABA vilanterol trifenatate in asthma patients treated with inhaled corticosteroids.
AB  - Current guidelines recommend adding a long-acting inhaled (2)-agonist (LABA) to inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) in patients with uncontrolled asthma. This study evaluated the novel, once-daily LABA vilanterol trifenatate (VI) in asthma patients who remained symptomatic despite existing ICS therapy. The study involved a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of VI (3, 6.25, 12.5, 25 and 50 g), administered once daily in the evening by dry powder inhaler for 28 days, in asthma patients aged  12 yrs symptomatic on current ICS therapy. The primary end-point was trough (24 h post-dose) forced expiratory volume in 1 s (FEV(1)); secondary end-points were weighted mean FEV(1), peak expiratory flow (PEF), symptom-/rescue-free 24-h periods, and safety. A significant relationship was observed between VI dose and improvements in trough FEV(1) (p=0.037). Statistically significant increases in mean trough FEV(1), relative to placebo, were documented for VI 12.5-50 g (121-162 mL; p  0.016). Dose-related effects of VI were observed on weighted mean (0-24 h) FEV(1), morning/evening PEF, and symptom-/rescue-free 24-h periods. All doses of VI were well tolerated with low incidences of recognised LABA-related adverse events (tremor 0-2%; palpitations 0-2%; glucose effects 0-1%; potassium effects 0-<1%). Once-daily VI 12.5-50 g resulted in prolonged bronchodilation of at least 24 h with good tolerability in asthma patients receiving ICS. Based on the overall efficacy and adverse event profile from this study, the optimum dose of VI appears to be 25 g.

UI  - 22357130
TI  - Real-life effectiveness of extrafine beclometasone dipropionate/formoterol in adults with persistent asthma according to smoking status.
AB  - This prospective cohort study demonstrates the real-life effectiveness and safety of BDP/F HFA in adult asthma patients, including smokers, in normal clinical practice.

UI  - 22356355
TI  - Effect of omalizumab as add-on therapy on asthma-related quality of life in severe allergic asthma: a Brazilian study (QUALITX).
AB  - Omalizumab was well tolerated and significantly improved the overall AQLQ score. Hence, it is a potential add-on therapy for severe persistent allergic asthma not controlled by standard prescribed treatment in Brazilian patients.

UI  - 22353199
TI  - Assessment of prescription pattern in asthma therapy at Shamli hospitals.
AB  - This drug utilization or prescription-monitoring study was conducted to evaluate the drug-prescribing trend of anti-asthmatic drugs in various hospitals (health care centre) of Shamli, (Prabuddha Nagar, Uttar Pradesh, India). The study was conducted in three famous hospitals of Shamli on three hundred thirty (330) patients, using a developed prescription auditing Performa. Data was recorded from the co-operating patients, attending the outpatient department using a chance random sample method for six months by interviewing and information was filled in the performa. The collected data was studied statistically for determining the most prominently prescribed medication for the treatment. The collected information suggested that -agonist were the most frequently prescribed anti-asthmatic drugs followed by corticosteroids, Methylxanthine, anti-histaminics and leukotriene antagonist. Also the performed prescription analysis revealed that there is significant difference in the prescriptions for multiple drug therapy (90%) as compared to single drug therapy (10%). Also even after the commercial development of pulmonary targeted systems, oral dosage form like tablets (54.93%) were preferred over inhalation (31.69%). Thus, it can be concluded that the present prescribing pattern of antiasthmatics in Shamli does not completely meet standard guidelines for the asthma treatment. Hence there is a need of awareness amongst the physicians of Shamli so that they can follow the guidelines while treating asthma. Also the patients must be encouraged to use newly developed inhalational drug delivery systems for improving the treatment.

UI  - 22343777
TI  - [The relationships between the peak inspiratory flow and the characteristics factors in the asthmatics with inhaled corticosteroid -a multicenter study in Chugoku Shikoku area].
AB  - The cases with insufficient PIF are few but present. Adequate device selection and inhalation guidance may be important. The meaning of PIF differs depending on whether or not an adaptor is present. Further investigation of intake is considered necessary.

UI  - 22342538
TI  - Dose effect of once-daily fluticasone furoate in persistent asthma: a randomized trial.
AB  - FF 50-200g/day once daily in the evening demonstrated dose-related efficacy in asthma with 100-200g appearing to be the optimal doses for further evaluation. ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT00603382.

UI  - 22329608
TI  - The effect of budesonide/formoterol pressurized metered-dose inhaler on predefined criteria for worsening asthma in four different patient populations with asthma.
AB  - Predefined asthma event rates were numerically or significantly lower for patients with asthma receiving BUD/FM pMDI versus BUD, regardless of race or disease severity. Differences between the BUD/FM pMDI and BUD groups were smaller in patients with mild to moderate asthma than in those with moderate to severe asthma, most likely because patients with milder disease had lower asthma event rates. Overall, these findings support the efficacy of BUD/FM pMDI in achieving asthma control in patients with moderate to severe asthma.

UI  - 22326605
TI  - Effect of bariatric surgery on airway response and lung function in obese subjects with asthma.
AB  - Airway responsiveness, lung volumes and asthma severity/control markedly improved with weight loss following bariatric surgery in severely obese patients.

UI  - 22323442
TI  - Clinical and pharmacoeconomic aspects of omalizumab: a 4-year follow-up.
AB  - This study confirms the effectiveness and reliability of omalizumab over the long term, while providing an excellent safety profile. The additional cost due the use of omalizumab was offset by the medium- and long-term savings associated with the reduction in hospital admissions and access to ED.

UI  - 22316110
TI  - Predicting asthma treatment outcome at diagnosis: the role of symptom perception during a histamine challenge test.
AB  - Higher symptom levels at the start of the HCT and during recovery may reflect a tendency to inaccurately perceive asthma symptoms in ambiguous situations. Assessing symptoms during diagnostic challenge tests can help predict problems with asthma treatment.

UI  - 22314457
TI  - Efficacy of salbutamol by nebulizer versus metered dose inhaler with home-made non-valved spacer in acute exacerbation of childhood asthma.
AB  - This study was done to evaluate and to compare the efficacy of jet nebulizer and metered dose inhaler (MDI) with home-made non-valved spacer (HM NVS) to deliver aerosolized salbutamol in acute exacerbation of asthma in children. HM NVS was made by 500ml plastic mineral water bottle. It was perforated at the bottom for the insertion of MDI and proximal end was cut for placing the mouth. This prospective randomized study was conducted in the department of Pediatrics, Dhaka Medical College Hospital, during April 2007 to March 2008 with 50 known cases (2-12 years) of bronchial asthma with acute exacerbation. After randomized enrollment, each patient received three doses of salbutamol either through a jet nebulizer or through a HM NVS. Oxygen saturation (SaO2), wheeze, heart rate, respiratory rate were recorded throughout the treatment period. Data were analyzed with SPSS for Windows 10.0 at p value <0.05 was considered significant. The mean age of patients was 59.8 months in nebulizer group versus 69.4 months in MDI with HM NVS group. Baseline clinical characteristics in nebulizer group were SaO2 87.72.5 versus 89.01.8 percent, RR 59.27.3 vs. 63.24.8 per minute, HR 155.411.8 versus 149.010.8 per minute and wheeze in 22(88.0%) cases versus 21(84.0%) cases respectively (p>0.05). After therapy improvement was noted among the nebulizer group (SaO2 87.72.5 vs. 94.32.8 percent; RR 59.27.3 vs. 39.34.9 per minute; HR 155.411.8 vs. 151.6017.3 per minute; wheeze 88% vs. 8%) as well as in the MDI with HM NVS group (SaO2 89.01.8 vs. 94.81.8 percent; RR 63.24.8 vs. 38.76.4 per minute; HR 149.010.8 vs. 144.513.5 per minute; wheeze 84% vs. 16%) [p<0.001; CI:95%]. However, these improvements did not differ significantly between the nebulizer group and HM NVS group (SaO2 94.32.8 vs. 94.81.8 percent, RR 39.34.9 vs. 38.76.4 per minute, HR 151.6017.3 vs. 144.513.5 per minute and wheeze persisted in 2(8.0%) cases versus 4(16.0%) cases respectively) [p>0.05]. The overall response to these modalities of treatment was satisfactory in nebulizer (19/25) and HM NVS (17/25). Salbutamol delivered through both nebulizer as well as MDI with HM NVS is equally effective in the treatment of acute asthma in children.

UI  - 22300506
TI  - Is low dose inhaled corticosteroid therapy as effective for inflammation and remodeling in asthma? A randomized, parallel group study.
AB  - 200 g/day of FP was as effective as 1000 g/day in improving asthma control, airway inflammation, lung function and AHR in adults in the short term. Future studies should examine potential differential effects between low and high dose combination therapy (ICS/long acting beta agonist) on inflammation and airway remodeling over longer treatment periods.

UI  - 22296407
TI  - Apocynin reduces reactive oxygen species concentrations in exhaled breath condensate in asthmatics.
AB  - Asthma is an inflammatory airway disease, and oxidative stress was proven to be involved in its pathogenesis. Apocynin effectively inhibits the main source of reactive oxygen species (ROS)-nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) oxidase-by blocking its activation. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of inhaled apocynin on ROS and RNS (reactive nitrogen species) concentration in 14 nonsmoking mild asthmatics. Effects of nebulized apocynin (0.5 mg/mL) were assessed in exhaled breath condensate (EBC) after 30, 60, and 120 minutes, and safety parameters have been analyzed. Apocynin significantly decreased H2O2 concentration in EBC in comparison with placebo after 60 and 120 minutes. Moreover, apocynin significantly reduced NO(-2) concentration 30 and 60 minutes after nebulization and caused a significant decrease of NO(-3) concentration in EBC 60 and 120 minutes after administration, comparing with placebo. No adverse events have been observed throughout the study. This research confirmed anti-inflammatory properties of nebulized apocynin, which might be an effective and safe drug in bronchial asthma.

UI  - 22287580
TI  - One year after endoscopic sinus surgery in polyposis: asthma, olfaction, and quality-of-life outcomes.
AB  - Endoscopic sinus surgery had beneficial long-term effects on asthma, olfaction, and quality of life in patients with nasal polyposis. This is the first study to show long-term benefits of ESS on butanol tests in patients with nasal polyposis.

UI  - 22277996
TI  - Inhaler mishandling is very common in patients with chronic airflow obstruction and long-term home nebuliser use.
AB  - Inhalers and nebulisers are devices used for delivering aerosolised drugs in subjects with Chronic Airflow Obstruction (CAO). This multicentre, cross-sectional observational study was performed in a large population of outpatients with CAO regularly using home aerosol therapy and referring to chest clinics. The aims of the study were to compare the characteristics of the group of subjects with CAO who were using home nebulisers but also experienced with inhalers vs. those only using inhalers and to investigate whether the first group of subjects was particularly prone to inhaler misuse. Information was gained evaluating the responses to a standardised questionnaire on home aerosol therapy and the observations of inhaler technique. We enrolled 1527 patients (58% males; meanSE; aged 61.10.4 years; FEV1% pred 69.90.6; 51% and 44% respectively suffering from COPD and asthma) who were only inhaler users (OIU group) and 137 (85% males; aged 67.71.3 years; FEV1% pred 62.32.9; 60% and 23% respectively suffering from COPD and asthma) who were using both nebulisers and inhalers (NIU group). Nebuliser users were older, had more severe obstruction, related symptoms and health care resources utilisation. Nebulisers users performed more critical inhalers errors than those of the OIU group (49% vs. 36%; p=0.009). We conclude that our patients with CAO and regular nebuliser treatment had advanced age, severe respiratory conditions and common inhaler misuse.

UI  - 22277052
TI  - A 26-week, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter study to evaluate the effect of omalizumab on asthma control in patients with persistent allergic asthma.
AB  - For allergic asthma patients with NHLBI Step 4 or above asthma therapy, omalizumab consistently improved asthma control; however, compared with placebo, differences were not significant. Placebo-treated patients had substantial improvement in their ACT score, which may have limited the ability to detect differences between treatment groups. Subgroup analyses showed significant improvements with omalizumab versus placebo in patients with very poorly controlled asthma.

UI  - 22274684
TI  - Lansoprazole for children with poorly controlled asthma: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00442013.

UI  - 22272780
TI  - Study protocol for Women of Color and Asthma Control: a randomized controlled trial of an asthma-management intervention for African American women.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT01117805.

UI  - 22265857
TI  - Impact of add-on pranlukast in stable asthma; the additive effect on peripheral airway inflammation.
AB  - UMIN 000003781.

UI  - 22260527
TI  - A case series on lung deposition analysis of inhaled medication using functional imaging based computational fluid dynamics in asthmatic patients: effect of upper airway morphology and comparison with in vivo data.
AB  - It was concluded that a combination of patient-specific airway models and lobar boundary conditions can be used to obtain accurate lung deposition estimates. Lower lung deposition can be expected for patients with higher extrathoracic resistance. Novel respiratory drug delivery devices need to accommodate population sub-groups based on these morphological and anatomical differences in addition to subject age.

UI  - 22250027
TI  - Maternal asthma medication use and the risk of selected birth defects.
AB  - Positive associations were observed for anorectal atresia, esophageal atresia, and omphalocele and maternal periconceptional asthma medication use, but not for other defects studied. It is possible that observed associations may be chance findings or may be a result of maternal asthma severity and related hypoxia rather than medication use.

UI  - 22250025
TI  - Multicenter analysis of quality indicators for children treated in the emergency department for asthma.
AB  - We found no clinically significant association between process and outcome quality measures in the delivery of asthma-related care to children in a multicenter study. Although the quality of emergency department care does not predict successful discharge, other factors, such as outpatient care, may better predict outcomes.

UI  - 22248352
TI  - Effects of budesonide/formoterol combination therapy versus budesonide alone on airway dimensions in asthma.
AB  - Budesonide/formoterol combination therapy is more effective than budesonide alone for reducing airway wall thickness and inflammation in individuals with asthma.

UI  - 22244599
TI  - Development and validation of the Composite Asthma Severity Index--an outcome measure for use in children and adolescents.
AB  - CASI retained its discriminatory ability even with low levels of symptoms reported after months of guidelines-directed care. Thus, CASI has the ability to determine the level of asthma severity and provide a composite clinical characterization of asthma.

UI  - 22236804
TI  - Effects of adding omalizumab, an anti-immunoglobulin E antibody, on airway wall thickening in asthma.
AB  - These findings suggest that omalizumab reduced airway wall thickness and airway inflammation. Larger patient studies with longer-term follow-up are needed to show whether omalizumab can truly maintain improved airway wall dimensions.

UI  - 22221724
TI  - Escitalopram for severe asthma and major depressive disorder: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled proof-of-concept study.
AB  - Medium effect sizes and a remission trend were observed favoring escitalopram over placebo on depression measures. Changes in self-reported depressive symptoms correlated with changes in asthma symptoms. A larger trial is needed to confirm the findings from this pilot study.

UI  - 22221440
TI  - Onset and duration of attenuation of exercise-induced bronchoconstriction in children by single-dose of montelukast.
AB  - Single-dose montelukast attenuates exercise-induced bronchoconstriction (EIB) in adults within 2 hours postdose and lasting through 24 hours. This study evaluated the onset and duration of EIB attenuation in children after a single dose of montelukast. A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, two-period crossover study was performed. Patients (n = 66) aged 4-14 years, with preexercise forced expiratory volume in 1 second of (FEV(1)) 70% predicted and maximum percentage fall in FEV(1) of 20% at two screening exercise challenges were eligible. Patients were to receive single-dose montelukast (4 or 5 mg) or placebo before performing standardized exercise challenges at 2 and 24 hours postdose. A 3- to-7-day washout separated the two crossover periods. The primary end point was maximum percentage fall in FEV(1) after exercise challenge 2 hours postdose. Secondary end points included maximum percentage fall in FEV(1) after the 24-hour postdose challenge; each of the following at 2 and 24 hours postdose-maximum percentage fall in FEV(1) categorized as <10%, 10-20%, or >20%; area under the curve (AUC) during 60 minutes postchallenge; time to recovery of FEV(1) to within 5% of preexercise baseline; and need for rescue medication. The mean maximum percentage fall in FEV(1) after the 2-hour postdose exercise challenge was significantly attenuated after single-dose montelukast compared with placebo (15.35% versus 20.00%; p = 0.020). Montelukast was also significantly more effective than placebo for maximum percentage fall after the 24-hour challenge (12.92% versus 17.25%; p = 0.005), the categorized maximum percent fall in FEV(1) at 2 hours (p = 0.034), and AUC at 2 hours (p = 0.022) and 24 hours (p = 0.013). Single-dose montelukast provided rapid and sustained EIB attenuation in children. Clinicaltrials.gov identifier: NCT00534976.

UI  - 22221427
TI  - Effects on small airway obstruction of long-term treatments with beclomethasone/formoterol hydrofluoroalkane (metered-dose inhaler) versus fluticasone/salmeterol (dry-powder inhaler) in asthma: a preliminary study.
AB  - New formulations of extrafine particles of long-acting beta-2 agonists plus inhaled corticosteroids (LABA + ICS) have been shown to reach peripheral regions of the lung. The aim of the study was to assess the effect on small airway obstruction of long-term treatments with two different LABA + ICS formulations in asthma. Ten subjects with moderate persistent asthma were enrolled. After a 4-week washout period they were treated in a randomized crossover design for 24 weeks with formoterol, 12 micrograms, and beclomethasone, 200 micrograms, hydrofluoroalkane (HFA; by metered-dose inhaler) b.i.d. (FB) or salmeterol, 50 micrograms, and fluticasone, 250 micrograms (by dry-powder inhaler), b.i.d. (SF). At baseline and at the end of each period subjects underwent an Asthma Control Test (ACT) and Pulmonary Function Testing. The N(2) phase III slope and closing volume (CV) during single-breath washout test and difference between the maximal expiratory flow rates with air and heliox at isovolume corresponding to 50% [Delta(heliox-air)MEF(50%)] were measured to assess changes on peripheral airways function. Two subjects dropped out and eight completed the study. After SF and FB, forced expiratory volume at 1 second (FEV(1); p < 0.01) and FEV(1)/forced vital capacity (FVC; p < 0.01 for SF and p < 0.05 for FB) increased when compared with baseline. Although both FB and SF treatments slightly increased delta(heliox-air)MEF(50% isovolume) versus baseline, only after FB the N(2) phase III slope and CV decreased from 1.61  0.61%/L to 1.35  0.49 N(2)%/L (p = 0.054) and from 0.98  0.56 L to 0.88  0.58 L (p < 0.05), respectively. ACT score raised from 19  5 (baseline) to 23  1 after FB (p < 0.02) and 23  2 after SF (p < 0.05). When compared with baseline and in contrast to SF (50/250 micrograms b.i.d.), FB HFA (12/200 micrograms b.i.d.) significantly improved functional parameters reflecting small airway obstruction in asthmatic patients. Registered in the public trial registry at www.ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT01255579.

UI  - 23516864
TI  - [Experience with the use of phospholipid preparations in the combined treatment of bronchial asthma].
AB  - The authors report the results of a single-blind randomized placebo-controlled study of the efficacy and safety of inhalation of phospholipid nanoparticles in patients with bronchial asthma. They give evidence of the statistically significant positive effect of the proposed therapeutic modality on the clinical status of the patients and lung functional tests. No clinically significant adverse events were documented during the study.

UI  - 23479988
TI  - [Efficacy of ceruloplasmin in patients with asthma].
AB  - The use of Cp in patients with an asthma exacerbation corrects free radical oxidation processes and enhances therapeutic effectiveness.

UI  - 22198635
TI  - Cromoglycate, reproterol, or both--what's best for exercise-induced asthma?
AB  - Prevention of EIA with the combination of reproterol and DSCG or with reproterol only is effective. An exclusive recommendation in favor of the combination cannot be given due to the low difference in the effectiveness versus reproterol alone. Due to the limited number of subjects and some probands showing protection under DSCG, it cannot be completely excluded that there is some preventive power of DSCG in individual cases.

UI  - 22193691
TI  - Urban primary care physicians' perceptions about initiation of controller medications during a pediatric emergency department visit for asthma.
AB  - Primary care providers who participated in this study believed that the ED visit offers a valuable opportunity for the initiation of controller medications when ED providers use guideline-based criteria and communicate the intervention to the PCP.

UI  - 22188844
TI  - Adherence rate to beclomethasone dipropionate and the level of asthma control.
AB  - There are only a few studies assessing the relationship between adherence rate to ICS, as assessed by electronic monitoring, and the level of asthma control in childhood. The present study was carried out to examine the relationship between adherence to beclomethasone diproprionate (BDP) as well as other factors related to poor asthma control. In this prospective cohort study, 102 steroid nave randomly selected subjects with persistent asthma, aged 5-14 years were prescribed 500-750g daily of BDP-CFC and followed during one year. Adherence to BDP was measured electronically in the 4th, 8th and 12th months of study. The level of asthma control was classified as either controlled or uncontrolled instead of the current three categories recommended by the Global Initiative for Asthma (GINA). Mean adherence rate was higher in patients with controlled asthma during follow-up, but went down from 60.4% in the 4th month to 49.8% in the 12th month (p=0.038). Conversely, among patients with uncontrolled asthma, the mean adherence rate decreased from 43.8% to 31.2% (p=0.001). Multivariate analysis showed that the level of asthma control was independently associated to the adherence rate in all follow-up visits (p-values equal or lower than 0.005). The level of asthma control was directly proportional to adherence rate. Our results suggest that a BDP daily dose by 300g seems to be enough to attain control over mild and moderate persistent asthma, including exercise induced asthma.

UI  - 22188824
TI  - The role of the small airways in the clinical expression of asthma in adults.
AB  - Current asthma control is associated with markers of small-airways disease. Improvements in ventilation heterogeneity with anti-inflammatory therapy are associated with improvements in symptoms. Sensitive measures of small-airway function might be useful in monitoring the response to therapy in asthmatic subjects.

UI  - 22188731
TI  - Rapid effects of extrafine beclomethasone dipropionate/formoterol fixed combination inhaler on airway inflammation and bronchoconstriction in asthma: a randomised controlled trial.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT01343745.

UI  - 22188590
TI  - Fluticasone furoate: once-daily evening treatment versus twice-daily treatment in moderate asthma.
AB  - Clinicaltrials.gov; NCT00766090.

UI  - 22185725
TI  - Comparison of efficacy of mometasone furoate versus clarithromycin in the treatment of chronic rhinosinusitis without nasal polyps in Chinese adults.
AB  - Mometasone furoate and clarithromycin show a comparable clinical effect for CRSsNPs in Chinese adults. Mometasone furoate is more effective in improving edema and secretion for CRSsNP patients with concomitant AR.

UI  - 22176903
TI  - [Effect of montelukast sodium on TGF-beta(1) of peripheral blood mononuclear cells from children with mild persistent asthma].
AB  - The protein and mRNA expression level of TGF-beta(1) was low in those asthmatic children. Insufficient secretion of TGF-beta(1) and the defective ability of activated regulatory T cells (CD(45) RA(-)Foxp(3)(hi)) in Foxp(3)(+)CD(4)(+) Treg cells might play an important role in pathogenesis of asthma. Up-regulation of the expression of TGF-beta(1) and induction of the expression of CD(45) RA(-)Foxp(3)(hi) in Foxp(3)(+)CD(4)(+)Treg cells by montelukast sodium may be one of the immunomodulatory mechanisms in asthma.

UI  - 22170807
TI  - Effect of an intranasal corticosteroid on exercise induced bronchoconstriction in asthmatic children.
AB  - Treatment of allergic rhinitis in asthmatic children with an intranasal corticosteroid reduces EIB and tends to improve quality of life.

UI  - 22167121
TI  - The in vivo adherence intervention for at risk adolescents with asthma: report of a randomized pilot trial.
AB  - This intervention appears promising for at-risk youth with moderate- and severe-persistent asthma.

UI  - 22108478
TI  - Pycnogenol improvements in asthma management.
AB  - Pycnogenol administration was effective for better control of signs and symptoms of allergic asthma and reduced the need for medication.

UI  - 22133208
TI  - Budesonide/formoterol pressurized metered-dose inhaler versus budesonide: a randomized controlled trial in black patients with asthma.
AB  - In this population of black asthma patients, BUD/FM pMDI resulted in greater improvements in pulmonary function and asthma control versus BUD DPI, with similar safety profiles.

UI  - 22123375
TI  - Prospective evaluation of current asthma control using ACQ and ACT compared with GINA criteria.
AB  - ACQ scores  1.50 and ACT scores  19 are suitable to indicate uncontrolled asthma. To identify GINA-defined uncontrolled asthma, cutoff points for ACQ-5 should be  1.9 and for ACT  16, at least in real-life adult patients with mostly moderate and severe asthma.

UI  - 22119455
TI  - Do asthmatic smokers benefit as much as non-smokers on budesonide/formoterol maintenance and reliever therapy? Results of an open label study.
AB  - Asthmatic patients with a limited smoking history benefit from treatment with budesonide/formoterol maintenance and reliever therapy with dosing 2  2 being superior to 1  2.

UI  - 22114896
TI  - Asthma control cost-utility randomized trial evaluation (ACCURATE): the goals of asthma treatment.
AB  - Netherlands Trial Register (NTR): NTR1756.

UI  - 22111718
TI  - Daily or intermittent budesonide in preschool children with recurrent wheezing.
AB  - A daily low-dose regimen of budesonide was not superior to an intermittent high-dose regimen in reducing asthma exacerbations. Daily administration led to greater exposure to the drug at 1 year. (Funded by the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute and others; MIST ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00675584.).

UI  - 22107110
TI  - A text message programme designed to modify patients' illness and treatment beliefs improves self-reported adherence to asthma preventer medication.
AB  - A targeted text message programme increases adherence to asthma preventer inhaler and may be useful for other illnesses where adherence is a major issue.

UI  - 22104610
TI  - Adherence to inhaled corticosteroids: an ancillary study of the Childhood Asthma Management Program clinical trial.
AB  - Researchers should use objective rather than self-reported adherence data to identify clinical trial participants with low levels of adherence to study treatment.

UI  - 22104603
TI  - Asthma in Head Start children: effects of the Breathmobile program and family communication on asthma outcomes.
AB  - Other than a slight improvement in SFDs at 6 months in the Breathmobile plus FACI group, the intervention components did not result in any significant improvements in asthma management or asthma morbidity.

UI  - 22097202
TI  - [Effect of biantong huangqi ointment combined with western medicine on the recurrence of children's bronchial asthma].
AB  - BHO showed favorable anti-recurrent effect on children's BA. Its mechanism might be associated with regulating children's immune system.

UI  - 22091740
TI  - Psychosocial outcomes are related to asthma control and quality of life in pregnant women with asthma.
AB  - In pregnancy, women with asthma experience good QoL but overestimate teratogenic risks of asthma medication. Maintenance ICS use, illness beliefs, and anxiety are associated with impaired QoL and asthma control.

UI  - 22077869
TI  - Effects of hydrocortisone on acute -adrenoceptor blocker and histamine induced bronchoconstriction.
AB  - Nebulized salbutamol and ipratropium produced a full recovery after propranolol and histamine induced bronchoconstriction, independent of hydrocortisone use. Since the greatest risk of -adrenoceptor blockade is after first dose, our findings offer reassurance to those undertaking further evaluation of chronic -adrenoceptor blockade as a potential treatment for mild-to-moderate asthma.

UI  - 22040532
TI  - Over-the-counter 2-agonist purchase versus script: a cross-sectional study.
AB  - Purchase of SABA without prescription was not associated with worse asthma outcomes in Australia. Although many patients reported symptoms of asthma, this did not appear to be associated with reported adherence to anti-inflammatory asthma medication.

UI  - 22040259
TI  - Incentive device improves spacer technique but not clinical outcome in preschool children with asthma.
AB  - Use of Funhaler incentive device does not improve clinical outcome, but improves spacer technique in children younger than 4 years. Variability in drug delivery is large in young children using pressurised metered dose inhalers and spacers.

UI  - 22035853
TI  - Real-life prospective study on asthma control in Italy: cross-sectional phase results.
AB  - Asthma control is achieved in a good proportion of Italian patients. Differences may be detected in a real-life setting in favor of extrafine beclomethasone/formoterol combination.

UI  - 22033572
TI  - Nasal steroids improve regulation of nasal patency in asthma and mild rhinitis: a randomised, cross-over trial.
AB  - An important function of the healthy nose is the ability to adjust nasal patency in response to stimuli such as a change in posture between sitting and supine. We hypothesised that the regulation of nasal patency would be impaired in patients with asthma and mild rhinitis and that it could be improved by reducing nasal inflammation with a topical nasal steroid. This is a randomised, placebo-controlled, double-blind, cross-over study comprising 19 subjects with well-controlled asthma and a history of rhinitis without current treatment. The subjects were randomised to fluticasone propionate aqueous nasal spray (Beconase()), 200 g daily, or placebo (FESS() saline nasal spray), for 6 weeks in a cross-over design with a 4-week wash-out between treatments. Nasal patency was measured with acoustic rhinometry, while sitting and supine and with peak nasal inspiratory flow (PNIF). Treatment response was also monitored with spirometry, Rhinoconjunctivitis Quality of Life Questionnaire (RQLQ), Short Form-36 (SF-36), and The Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index. The minimal cross-sectional area remained unchanged between sitting and supine at baseline and after placebo but after fluticasone propionate there was a significant decrease. PNIF, RQLQ and SF-36 improved after fluticasone propionate, whereas sleep quality did not change. In well-controlled asthma and mild rhinitis, nasal steroid treatment normalised the neurovascular response to posture in the nasal mucosa and improved health-related quality of life. An impaired ability to regulate nasal patency could be a marker of upper airway inflammation in patients with asthma that can be measured non-invasively.

UI  - 22029858
TI  - Risk factors for montelukast treatment failure in step-down therapy for controlled asthma.
AB  - Early asthma onset, worse asthma control in the last year, and lower pre-bronchodilator FEV(1) are associated with montelukast treatment failure. A montelukast failure index is proposed to quantify the risk of failure prior to treatment initiation.

UI  - 22029856
TI  - Roflumilast attenuates allergen-induced inflammation in mild asthmatic subjects.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT01365533.

UI  - 22024920
TI  - Safety and tolerability of high-dose budesonide/formoterol via Turbuhaler in Japanese patients with asthma: a randomized, double-blind, crossover, active comparator-controlled, phase III study.
AB  - Clinicaltrials.gov identifier: NCT00837967; AstraZeneca study code: D589LC00003.

UI  - 22019792
TI  - Pilot and feasibility test of adolescent-controlled text messaging reminders.
AB  - Allowing teens to control the timing and content of reminder text messages may support self-management of chronic disease.

UI  - 22015542
TI  - Budesonide/formoterol maintenance and reliever therapy in primary care asthma management: effects on bronchial hyperresponsiveness and asthma control.
AB  - Despite a 59% lower dose of ICS, BHR and other clinical outcomes remained stable during SMART treatment while PEF values improved.

UI  - 22006677
TI  - Bronchodilator responsiveness in wheezy infants and toddlers is not associated with asthma risk factors.
AB  - Approximately one quarter of infants/toddlers with recurrent wheezing exhibited BDR at their clinical baseline. However, BDR in wheezy infants/toddlers was not associated with established clinical asthma risk factors.

UI  - 21998259
TI  - A randomized primary care trial of steroid titration against mannitol in persistent asthma: STAMINA trial.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov; No.: NCT01216579; URL: www.clinicaltrials.gov.

UI  - 21980828
TI  - Long-term monotherapy with suplatast tosilate in patients with mild atopic asthma: a pilot comparison with low-dose inhaled fluticasone.
AB  - Long-term treatment with suplatast significantly improved symptoms and inflammatory indices in patients with mild atopic asthma. Along with fluticasone, suplatast is considered a useful drug for the management of mild atopic asthma.

UI  - 21980827
TI  - The effect of montelukast on bronchial hyperreactivity and lung function in asthmatic children aged 6-13 years.
AB  - Montelukast significantly improved FEV1 and FEV1/FVC but not BHR in mild to moderate persistent asthmatic children aged 6-13 years after the 6 weeks of treatment.

UI  - 21980799
TI  - Sustained clinical efficacy of sublingual immunotherapy with a high-dose grass pollen extract.
AB  - The third year of SLIT with the high-dose 6-grass pollen preparation results in sustained and even further increased clinical efficacy.

UI  - 21980798
TI  - Clinical relevance of non-grass pollens respiratory allergies in Italy and effects of specific sublingual immunotherapy: The Rainbow Trial, a multicentre 3-year prospective observational study.
AB  - In this population pellitory, olive and ragweed allergies are associated with a more severe clinical picture in comparison with tree and cypress allergy. A two-year SLIT treatment was associated with a significant reduction in SS, MS, GS and asthma score in comparison with baseline. SLIT was also safe and well tolerated

UI  - 21980058
TI  - Acute effects of salmeterol and fluticasone propionate alone and in combination on airway blood flow in patients with asthma.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov; No.: NCT01231230; URL: www.clinicaltrials.gov.

UI  - 21977941
TI  - Efficacy in asthma of once-daily treatment with fluticasone furoate: a randomized, placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - NCT00398645.

UI  - 21969930
TI  - Effects of a short course of inhaled corticosteroids in noneosinophilic asthmatic subjects.
AB  - A clinically important and statistically significant response to ICS was observed in mildly uncontrolled noneosinophilic asthmatic subjects.

UI  - 21962092
TI  - Linear growth and bone maturation are unaffected by 1 year of therapy with inhaled flunisolide hydrofluoroalkane in prepubescent children with mild persistent asthma: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - In this study, flunisolide HFA did not suppress growth or bone maturation at the highest approved dose for children with persistent asthma.

UI  - 21961486
TI  - The efficacy of nebulized procaterol versus nebulized salbutamol for the treatment of moderate acute asthma: a randomized, double-blind, parallel group study.
AB  - In moderate acute asthma, nebulized procaterol and nebulized salbutamol were both effective in improving PEFR and decreasing asthma score. Both treatments were well tolerated, adverse reactions were rare.

UI  - 21949144
TI  - Prevalence of asthma and its association with glycemic control among youth with diabetes.
AB  - Prevalence of asthma may be elevated among youth with diabetes relative to the general US population. Among youth with type 1 diabetes, asthma is associated with poor glycemic control, especially if asthma is untreated. Specific asthma medications may decrease systemic inflammation, which underlies the complex relationship between pulmonary function, BMI, and glycemic control among youth with diabetes.

UI  - 21946753
TI  - Use of Asthma Control Test (ACT) affects New Zealand primary care doctors' perception of asthma control.
AB  - 

UI  - 21945511
TI  - The efficacy and tolerability of MK-0633, a 5-lipoxygenase inhibitor, in chronic asthma.
AB  - Leukotriene B4 (LTB(4)) is a potent inflammatory mediator in asthma, and is increased in more severe asthma. Targeting LTB(4), in addition to cysteinyl leukotrienes, could be beneficial in asthma. This was a randomized, double-blind trial of once-daily MK-0633, a potent 5-lypoxygenase inhibitor, 10mg, 50mg, and 100mg, and placebo in patients 18-70 years with a history of chronic asthma, and FEV(1) 45 and 85% predicted. There was a 6-week main period and optional 18-week and 34-week periods (52 weeks total), the latter two comparing only MK-0633 100mg and placebo. The primary endpoint was the change from baseline in FEV(1) over the last 4 weeks of the 6-week primary treatment period. Secondary endpoints included symptom scores, -agonist use, peak expiratory flow (PEF), asthma quality of life questionnaire (AQLQ), asthma control questionnaire (ACQ), asthma attacks, exacerbations, days with asthma control, post--agonist FEV(1), and blood eosinophils. MK-0633 100mg was significantly more effective than placebo for the change from baseline in FEV(1) (0.20L vs. 0.13L; p=0.004). The other MK-0633 doses were not significantly more effective than placebo. MK-0633 (at various doses) was also more effective than placebo for -agonist use, AQLQ, AM and PM PEFR, ACQ, and post--agonist FEV(1) (p<0.05 for all). MK-0633 was associated with a dose-dependent increase in elevated aspartate aminotransferase and alanine aminotransferase. Because of the relative benefit-risk ratio, the optional study periods were terminated after unblinding for the main study period. Overall, the benefit-risk ratio did not support the clinical utility of MK-0633 in asthma.

UI  - 21942354
TI  - A comparison of budesonide/formoterol maintenance and reliever therapy versus conventional best practice in asthma management in Spain.
AB  - A simplified regimen using budesonide/formoterol maintenance and reliever therapy (Symbicort SMART) was at least as effective at improving clinical control compared with CBP with a significantly lower ICS dose and lower drug costs.

UI  - 21939520
TI  - Network analysis of quantitative proteomics on asthmatic bronchi: effects of inhaled glucocorticoid treatment.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov registration NCT01378039.

UI  - 21938353
TI  - Feasibility and acceptability of using bronchial hyperresponsiveness to manage asthma in primary care: a pilot study.
AB  - Australia New Zealand Clinical Trial Registry ACTRN12610000807055.

UI  - 21933835
TI  - Bioavailability of inhaled fluticasone propionate via chambers/masks in young children.
AB  - We determined lung bioavailability of a fluticasone propionate (FP) pressurised metred-dose inhaler (Flovent HFA; GlaxoSmithKline, Research Triangle Park, NC, USA) administered via AeroChamber Plus (Monaghan Medical, Plattsburgh, NY, USA) with Facemask and Babyhaler (GlaxoSmithKline) valved holding chambers (VHCs) using a population pharmacokinetic approach. Children from 1 to <4 yrs of age with stable asthma but a clinical need for inhaled corticosteroid therapy were administered 88 g FP hydrofluoroalkane (2  44 g) twice daily delivered through the two devices in an open-label, randomised crossover manner for 8 days each. Patients were randomised to one of three sparse sampling schedules for blood collection throughout the 12-h dosing interval on the 8th day of each treatment for pharmacokinetic analysis. The area under the FP plasma concentration-time curve (AUC) was determined for each regimen. 17 children completed the study. The population mean AUC following FP with AeroChamber Plus with Facemask was 97.45 pghmL(-1) (95% CI 85.49-113.32 pghmL(-1)) and with Babyhaler was 51.55 pghmL(-1) (95% CI 34.45-64.46 pghmL(-1)). The relative bioavailability (Babyhaler/AeroChamber Plus) was 0.53 (95% CI 0.30-0.75). Clinically significant differences in lung bioavailability were observed between the devices. VHCs are not interchangeable, as differences in drug delivery to the lung may occur. A population pharmacokinetic approach can be used to determine lung bioavailability of FP.

UI  - 21933100
TI  - Oral corticosteroid sparing with omalizumab in severe allergic (IgE-mediated) asthma patients.
AB  - In this open-label study of patients with severe allergic asthma, OMA/OAT therapy reduced maintenance OCS use, compared with OAT alone. Improvements in efficacy measures were observed in the OMA/OAT group, irrespective of OCS change. CLINICALTRIALS.GOV IDENTIFIER: NCT00264849.

UI  - 21932561
TI  - [Dynamics of functional parameters in different schemes for bronchial asthma therapy: results of the STRELA-ACT multicentre study].
AB  - Different strategies for disease control in real clinical practice are compared in terms of dynamics of functional parameters in patients with persistent bronchial asthma. This prospective multicentre surveillance study was carried out in 19 Russian clinics using the common protocol. The patients were divided in 3 groups in accordance with the changes of basal antiinflammatory therapy during the study period. Group A--stepwise increase in the extent of combined salmoterol/fluticason therapy, group B--long-term stable-dose salmoterol/fluticason therapy, group C--salmoterol/fluticason therapy with gradual decrease of the dose and/or transition to an alternative variant. Statistical analysis using Statistica 6.0 program included data from 543 patients. The results suggest that the two first modalities increased the level of control (ACT test) and improved characteristics of external respiration throughout the study period. Strategy 3 was associated with a decrease in the external respiration function and the level of control.

UI  - 21923426
TI  - Methacholine challenge as a clinical bioassay of pulmonary delivery of a long-acting -adrenergic agonist.
AB  - Bioassay by methacholine challenge will be useful for bioequivalence studies of LABAs. A sample of at least 28 patients will be required for formoterol when methacholine challenge is performed in an optimal manner. The sample size may differ for other LABAs.

UI  - 21921368
TI  - Influence of obesity on control in asthmatic Japanese patients defined by the Japanese definition of obesity.
AB  - BACKGROUND Despite the use of inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) becoming increasingly widespread, many problems related to asthma management still need to be addressed. One of them, obesity, has been reported to exert a harmful influence on asthma control. However, there have been few reports focusing not only on both obesity and its influence on Japanese asthma patients but also on the Japanese definition of obesity, as defined by the Japan Society for the Study of Obesity (JASSO). AIMS & METHODS The aim of this study was to confirm the influence of obesity, as defined by the JASSO, on asthma management in Japanese asthmatic patients. Using data from the Niigata Asthma Treatment Study Group 2008 questionnaire survey, differences between the "normal" group (18.5 kg/m(2)  BMI <25 kg/m(2)) and the "obese" group (25 kg/m(2)  BMI) were analyzed. RESULTS There was a significantly lower step 1 rate (19.4% v.s. 26.8%) and a higher proportion of patients using inhaled salmeterol (43.6% v.s. 35.8%) and leukotriene receptor antagonist (49.8% v.s. 40.8%) in the obese group relative to the normal group, although there were no significant differences in indicators of asthma control, including asthma control test scores. CONCLUSION This study investigated influences of JASSO-defined obesity on asthma severity and management in a clinical setting in Japan. It is possible that there are strong interactions between asthma and obesity, such as obesity causing decreased ICS therapy efficacy and leukotriene (LT)-related inflammation, although further investigation is necessary.

UI  - 21910341
TI  - [Clinical study of astragalus's preventing the recurrence of asthma in children].
AB  - Astragalus played a role in preventing the recurrence of asthma. The combination of astragalus and hormones showed better effects.

UI  - 21907861
TI  - Management of asthma in pregnancy guided by measurement of fraction of exhaled nitric oxide: a double-blind, randomised controlled trial.
AB  - National Health and Medical Research Council of Australia.

UI  - 21903370
TI  - Comparison of Symbicort versus Pulmicort on steroid pharmacodynamic markers in asthma patients.
AB  - The effects of SYM100 and SYM200 on GR activation were not different from that of BUD800 and superior to BUD200. Thus, it has been confirmed at a molecular level that inhaled combination therapy with a lower dose of budesonide has an equivalent effect to a high dose of budesonide alone. In addition, GR-GRE binding is found to be a valuable pharmacodynamic marker for steroid efficacy in clinical studies.

UI  - 21893447
TI  - Neutrophil predominance in induced sputum from asthmatic patients. Therapeutic implications and role of clara cell 16-KD protein.
AB  - a NP subset of asthmatic patients was identified. These patients show a lower bronchial lability; the leukotriene pathway is involved which responds to anti-leukotriene treatment. This phenotype shows a poor recovery of CC16 level after treatment.

UI  - 21890335
TI  - Efficacy of a fixed combination of ciclesonide and formoterol: the EXCITED-study.
AB  - Recommended treatment for moderate to severe asthma is the combination of an inhaled corticosteroid and a long-acting beta2-agonist. The present study was designed to evaluate the efficacy of a newly developed fixed combination of ciclesonide and formoterol in comparison to the marketed fixed combination of fluticasone and salmeterol in patients with moderate asthma. This was a phase II, multi-centre, randomized, parallel-group, double-blind, double-dummy study. After a 2-week run-in period, 160 patients with moderate asthma were randomized to a 6-week treatment with ciclesonide/formoterol 320/9g bid (CIC/F) or fluticasone propionate/salmeterol 250/50g bid (FP/S), both delivered as powder formulations. The primary outcome FEV1 increased during treatment by 0.356L in the CIC/F group and by 0.288L in the FP/S group (p<0.0001). The increases were statistically significant and clinically relevant. The between-treatment analysis demonstrated non-inferiority of CIC/F to FP/S treatment (p<0.0001). A significant improvement from baseline in lung function, symptom score and rescue medication use was observed in both groups at all time points. No differences were observed between treatments in the frequency of adverse events and overnight urinary cortisol/creatinine ratio. The studied fixed combination of ciclesonide/formoterol is not inferior to the marketed fixed combination of fluticasone/salmeterol in terms of efficacy and tolerability.

UI  - 21885725
TI  - Severity of asthma score predicts clinical outcomes in patients with moderate to severe persistent asthma.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov; No.: NCT00252135; URL: www.clinicaltrials.gov.

UI  - 21885625
TI  - Impact of race on asthma treatment failures in the asthma clinical research network.
AB  - Despite having fewer asthma symptoms and less rescue -agonist use, African-Americans with asthma have more treatment failures compared with whites, especially when taking long-acting -agonists.

UI  - 21880193
TI  - Efficacy and tolerability of salmeterol/fluticasone propionate versus fluticasone propionate in asthma patients: a randomized, double-blind study.
AB  - SAL/FP 50/250 g was safe and effective, and had a high level of patient satisfaction resulting in significantly greater increases in morning PEF and FEV1 compared to the use of FP 250 g alone.

UI  - 21875546
TI  - Efficacy of budesonide/formoterol pressurized metered-dose inhaler versus budesonide pressurized metered-dose inhaler alone in Hispanic adults and adolescents with asthma: a randomized, controlled trial.
AB  - Improvement in clinically relevant control end points occurred in both BUD/FM and BUD groups; both treatments were well tolerated in this Hispanic asthma population but were not significantly differentiated.

UI  - 21865022
TI  - Time-effect of montelukast on protection against exercise-induced bronchoconstriction.
AB  - Montelukast assured protection against exercise-induced bronchoconstriction from the first through the eighth hour from the first day of treatment. However, individual susceptibility to protection was evident since some individuals were not protected at any time. We conclude that in clinical use individual responses to the drug should be carefully evaluated in the follow-up management.

UI  - 21859484
TI  - Short term efficacy of nebulized beclomethasone in mild-to-moderate wheezing episodes in pre-school children.
AB  - A 1-week treatment with nebulized BDP and prn salbutamol is effective in increasing SFDs and improving cough in children with wheezing, providing a clinical rationale for the short term use of ICS in episodic wheeze exacerbations in pre-school children.

UI  - 21839898
TI  - [Cost effectiveness of treatment with salmeterol/fluticasone compared to montelukast for the control of persistent asthma in children].
AB  - This analysis demonstrates that, compared with MON, SFC may be cost saving from the Mexican health care perspective for the treatment of pediatric patients with asthma. SFC provided a reduction in the number of severe exacerbations, frequent asthma symptoms and rescue medication use. Incremental cost-effectiveness analysis indicated the dominance of SFC because of both lower costs and greater efficacy.

UI  - 21855126
TI  - Most nocturnal asthma symptoms occur outside of exacerbations and associate with morbidity.
AB  - Nocturnal symptoms requiring albuterol in children with mild-to-moderate persistent asthma receiving controller therapy occurred predominantly outside of exacerbation periods. Despite being poor predictors of exacerbations, they were associated with increases in albuterol use, school absences, and doctor contacts the day after nocturnal symptom occurrences.

UI  - 21854342
TI  - Effects of inhaled mometasone furoate on growth velocity and adrenal function: a placebo-controlled trial in children 4-9 years old with mild persistent asthma.
AB  - One year of treatment with a total daily dose of 100 g of MF-DPI in the morning resulted in no significant difference, whereas a total daily dose of 200 g of MF-DPI was associated with some changes in growth velocity when compared with placebo. The differences in growth velocity, and the absence of drug-related cortisol effects, support the use of a total daily dose of 100 g of MF-DPI in children aged 4-9 years with mild persistent asthma.

UI  - 21852542
TI  - Reslizumab for poorly controlled, eosinophilic asthma: a randomized, placebo-controlled study.
AB  - Patients receiving reslizumab showed significantly greater reductions in sputum eosinophils, improvements in airway function, and a trend toward greater asthma control than those receiving placebo. Reslizumab was generally well tolerated.

UI  - 21852334
TI  - Home telemonitoring (forced expiratory volume in 1 s) in children with severe asthma does not reduce exacerbations.
AB  - Some children with severe asthma develop frequent exacerbations despite intensive treatment. We sought to assess the outcome (severe exacerbations and healthcare use, lung function, quality of life and maintenance treatment) of a strategy based on daily home spirometry with teletransmission to an expert medical centre and whether it differs from that of a conventional strategy. 50 children with severe uncontrolled asthma were enrolled in a 12-month prospective study and were randomised into two groups: 1) treatment managed with daily home spirometry and medical feedback (HM) and 2) conventional treatment (CT). The children's mean age was 10.9 yrs (95% confidence interval 10.2-11.6). 44 children completed the study (21 in the HM group and 23 in the CT group). The median number of severe exacerbations per patient was 2.0 (interquartile range 1.0-4.0) in the HM group and 3.0 (1.0-4.0) in the CT group (p=0.38 with adjustment for age). There were no significant differences between the two groups for unscheduled visits (HM 5.0 (3.0-7.0), CT 3.0 (2.0-7.0); p=0.30), lung function (pre-(2)-agonist forced expiratory volume in 1 s (FEV(1)) p=0.13), Paediatric Asthma Quality of Life Questionnaire scores (p=0.61) and median daily dose of inhaled corticosteroids (p=0.86). A treatment strategy based on daily FEV(1) monitoring with medical feedback did not reduce severe asthma exacerbations.

UI  - 21843115
TI  - Predictors of accuracy of diagnosis of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease in general practice.
AB  - A substantial proportion of patients clinically identified as having COPD in general practice do not have the condition according to spirometric criteria, with inaccurate diagnosis more common in patients with comorbidities. Policy and practice change is needed to support the use of spirometry in primary care.

UI  - 21840187
TI  - Bronchial nitric oxide flux (J'aw) is sensitive to oral corticosteroids in smokers with asthma.
AB  - Bronchial NO flux appears to be sensitive to oral dexamethasone and may provide a useful exploratory endpoint for the analysis of novel anti-inflammatory therapies in smokers with asthma.

UI  - 21839625
TI  - Ciclesonide in wheezy preschool children with a positive asthma predictive index or atopy.
AB  - In preschool children with recurrent wheeze and a positive asthma predictive index, ciclesonide modestly reduces wheeze exacerbation rates and improves lung function. A large placebo response and unexpected selection of patients with mild disease may have affected outcomes, highlighting the heterogeneity of preschool wheezing disorders.

UI  - 21828231
TI  - Fluticasone furoate demonstrates efficacy in patients with asthma symptomatic on medium doses of inhaled corticosteroid therapy: an 8-week, randomised, placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - FF doses <800 g have a favourable therapeutic index. The absence of an efficacy dose response suggests that 200 g is an appropriate dose in patients with moderate persistent asthma. CLINICALTRIALS.GOV IDENTIFIER: NCT00603746.

UI  - 21828036
TI  - Mometasone furoate/formoterol reduces asthma deteriorations and improves lung function.
AB  - This study evaluated the effect of mometasone furoate (MF)/formoterol (F) versus its monocomponents, each administered via metered-dose inhaler, on asthma deteriorations and lung function. This 26-week, multicentre, double-blind, placebo-controlled study included subjects aged 12 yrs with not well-controlled asthma on low-dose inhaled corticosteroids. After a 2-3-week open-label run-in (MF 100 g b.i.d.), 746 subjects were randomised to receive placebo, F 10 g, MF 100 g or MF/F 100/10 g b.i.d. Co-primary end-points were time to first asthma deterioration (MF/F versus F to assess effect of MF) and change in forced expiratory volume in 1 s (FEV(1)) area under the curve of serial spirometry measurements over the 12-h period following the morning dose (AUC(0-12h)) (baseline to week 12; MF/F versus MF to assess effect of F). The therapeutic effect of MF in the combination was demonstrated by a reduction in asthma deterioration incidence with MF/F versus F and a delayed time to first asthma deterioration (p<0.001). Asthma deterioration incidence was also reduced with MF/F versus MF (p=0.006). The therapeutic effect of F in the combination was demonstrated by MF/F versus MF in FEV(1) AUC(0-12h) change (4.00 versus 2.53 Lh, respectively; p=0.001). MF/F treatment also resulted in a marked improvement in health-related quality of life. MF/F 100/10 g b.i.d. treatment showed greater clinical efficacy than its individual components or placebo; both components contributed to the efficacy of MF/F.

UI  - 21827450
TI  - Corticosteroid-induced gene expression in allergen-challenged asthmatic subjects taking inhaled budesonide.
AB  - Expression of the corticosteroid-induced genes, GILZ and FKBP51, is up-regulated in the airways of allergen-challenged asthmatic subjects taking inhaled budesonide. Consequently, the biological effects of corticosteroid-induced genes should be considered when assessing the actions of ICS. Treatment modalities that increase or decrease GR-dependent transcription may correspondingly affect corticosteroid efficacy.

UI  - 21825081
TI  - Use of sputum eosinophil counts to guide management in children with severe asthma.
AB  - Incorporating the control of sputum eosinophils into the management algorithm did not significantly reduce overall exacerbations or improve asthma control. Exacerbations were reduced in the short term, suggesting that more frequent measurements would be needed for a clinically useful effect and that controlling inflammation may have a role to play in subgroups of children with severe asthma.

UI  - 21823274
TI  - [Acupoint sticking therapy for 100 cases of infants asthmatic bronchitis].
AB  - 

UI  - 21820298
TI  - The effect of airway remodelling on airway hyper-responsiveness in asthma.
AB  - Uncontrolled airway inflammation causes a small decrease in the distensibility of the airways of asthmatics with airway hyper-responsiveness. The lack of association between airway responsiveness and airway distensibility, both before and after 12 weeks ICS treatment, suggests that airway remodelling does not contribute to airway hyper-responsiveness in asthma.

UI  - 21812663
TI  - Lebrikizumab treatment in adults with asthma.
AB  - Lebrikizumab treatment was associated with improved lung function. Patients with high pretreatment levels of serum periostin had greater improvement in lung function with lebrikizumab than did patients with low periostin levels. (Funded by Genentech; ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00930163 .).

UI  - 21807253
TI  - Elevated exhaled nitric oxide is a clinical indicator of future uncontrolled asthma in asthmatic patients on inhaled corticosteroids.
AB  - 

UI  - 21807250
TI  - Tiotropium is noninferior to salmeterol in maintaining improved lung function in B16-Arg/Arg patients with asthma.
AB  - Tiotropium was more effective than placebo and as effective as salmeterol in maintaining improved lung function in B16-Arg/Arg patients with moderate persistent asthma. Safety profiles were comparable.

UI  - 21803547
TI  - Control charts demonstrated limited utility for the monitoring of lung function in asthma.
AB  - Control charts may not be suitable for use in many patients with asthma.

UI  - 21802271
TI  - Inhaler technique and asthma: feasability and acceptability of training by pharmacists.
AB  - Poor inhaler technique is frequent in asthma, but its long-term consequences have been seldom assessed. Pharmacists are ideally positioned to teach inhaler technique. This prospective observational study evaluated the feasibility of inhaler training by pharmacists in patients receiving inhaled corticosteroids by pressurised metered-dose inhaler (pMDI) or breath-actuated MDI. In parallel, the relationships between inhaler technique, adherence, and asthma control, and their modulation one month after training were assessed. Of 727 patients receiving training at pharmacies (n=123), 61% were prescribed a pMDI; 35%, an Autohaler(); and 5%, an Easi-Breathe() inhaler. Poor asthma control (Asthma Control Questionnaire score  1.5) at baseline was significantly (p<0.05) and independently associated with poor inhaler technique and poor self-reported adherence (Morisky score  3). The percentage of patients with optimal inhaler technique rose from 24% before to 79% after training (p<0.001). Median training session length was 6 min. At 1 month, mean (SD) ACQ score had improved from a baseline score of 1.8 (1.2) to 1.4 (1.1), (p<0.001). Importantly, greater change was observed in patients with improved inhaler technique versus those without. Similar results were observed for Morisky score. Inhaler technique is associated with adherence and influences asthma control. Inhaler training by pharmacists is feasible and seams to improve inhaler technique, asthma control and adherence.

UI  - 21799027
TI  - Does age impact the obese asthma phenotype? Longitudinal asthma control, airway function, and airflow perception among mild persistent asthmatics.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov; No.: NCT00156819; URL: www.clinicaltrials.gov.

UI  - 21790924
TI  - Can we predict sputum eosinophilia from clinical assessment in patients referred to an adult asthma clinic?
AB  - This study demonstrates that the serum eosinophil count and FEV(1) combined with aspects of a clinical history may provide a simple and practical alternative to assessment of airway (sputum) eosinophilia in the clinical setting. A full blood count can be performed at a substantially lesser cost and with greater accessibility than induced sputum. We feel the time has come for the clinical utility of the serum eosinophil count to be revisited.

UI  - 21790779
TI  - Systemic activity of inhaled beclomethasone dipropionate: a double-blind comparison of volume spacers.
AB  - The systemic activity of BDP, via the Volumatic, and AeroChamber Plus spacers is similar. The AeroChamber Plus spacer may be used in children without risk of increasing systemic activity of BDP.

UI  - 21784529
TI  - Short-term lower leg growth in 5- to 11-year-old asthmatic children using beclomethasone dipropionate inhalers with chlorofluorocarbon or hydrofluoroalkane propellants: a 9-week, open-label, randomized, crossover, noninferiority study.
AB  - No statistically significant differences were found in lower leg growth between BDP-HFA 100 g BID with AeroChamber Plus spacer and BDP-CFC 200 g BID with Volumatic spacer during 2-week treatment. Evidence of differences in systemic activity between the treatments was not found. EudraCT registration: 2007-007455-14.

UI  - 21767799
TI  - [Does implementation of benchmarking in quality circles improve the quality of care of patients with asthma and reduce drug interaction?].
AB  - General practitioners seem to take a critical perspective about open benchmarking in quality circles. Caution should be used when implementing benchmarking in a quality circle as it did not improve healthcare when compared to the traditional procedure with anonymised comparisons.

UI  - 21762229
TI  - Nebulized budesonide added to standard pediatric emergency department treatment of acute asthma: a randomized, double-blind trial.
AB  - For children 2 to 18 years of age treated in the ED for acute asthma, a single 2-mg dose of budesonide added to standard therapy did not improve asthma severity scores or other short-term ED-based outcomes.

UI  - 21762225
TI  - TPI ASM8 reduces eosinophil progenitors in sputum after allergen challenge.
AB  - TPI ASM8 was safe and well tolerated. The results of this study demonstrate blocking of CCR3 and c expression by TPI ASM8 significantly inhibits the accumulation of eosinophils and eosinophil progenitors in the airways after allergen challenge. Inhibition of airway progenitor cell accumulation presents a novel therapeutic target.

UI  - 21762224
TI  - A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of the CRTH2 antagonist OC000459 in moderate persistent asthma.
AB  - This study provides the first clinical evidence that CRTH2 receptors contribute to airflow limitation, symptoms and eosinophilic airway inflammation in asthma. OC000459 shows promise as a novel oral treatment for asthma and related disorders.

UI  - 21751905
TI  - Active albuterol or placebo, sham acupuncture, or no intervention in asthma.
AB  - Although albuterol, but not the two placebo interventions, improved FEV(1) in these patients with asthma, albuterol provided no incremental benefit with respect to the self-reported outcomes. Placebo effects can be clinically meaningful and can rival the effects of active medication in patients with asthma. However, from a clinical-management and research-design perspective, patient self-reports can be unreliable. An assessment of untreated responses in asthma may be essential in evaluating patient-reported outcomes. (Funded by the National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine.).

UI  - 21751432
TI  - Components of asthma control and treatment response of individual control criteria in children: analysis of the PEACE study.
AB  - Different outcomes improve at different rates. Assessment of one or a few outcomes over-estimates the level of asthma control. An overall composite score in combination with the proportion of patients failing on three or more criteria seemed to most accurately reflect the level of control. Compared with SFC treatment, MON was three times less likely to result in good asthma control.

UI  - 21740532
TI  - Omalizumab in patients with severe asthma: the XCLUSIVE study.
AB  - Results of effectiveness strongly suggest that the efficacy demonstrated in RCTs can be transposed to a clinical practice-related setting.

UI  - 21728272
TI  - Bronchodilator effect of Ipraterol on methacholine-induced bronchoconstriction in asthmatic patients.
AB  - Our data suggest that nebulized Ipraterol offers a statistically significant improvement in pulmonary function without significant systemic absorption causing hypokalemia, with the improvement being comparable to that achieved with nebulized Berodual.

UI  - 21726121
TI  - Patient satisfaction with a pressurized metered-dose inhaler with an integrated dose counter containing a fixed-dose mometasone furoate/formoterol combination.
AB  - The MF/F MDI dose counter was found to be easy to use and have overall high patient satisfaction.

UI  - 21708057
TI  - Nebulized dehydroepiandrosterone-3-sulfate improves asthma control in the moderate-to-severe asthma results of a 6-week, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study.
AB  - Inhaled dehydroepiandrosterone-3-sulfate (DHEAS), but not dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA), possesses anti-inflammatory activity in in vitro assays and in models of allergen and lipopolysaccharide challenges. We postulated whether an inhaled suspension of DHEAS delivered via nebulizer would improve asthma control in moderate-to-severe asthma patients. We also characterized the safety profile of an inhaled suspension of DHEAS. Patients receiving at least 500 g of fluticasone equivalent plus long-acting beta-agonists (LABA) entered a 5-week run-in where the dose of inhaled corticosteroids was reduced to 200 g of fluticasone plus LABA per day. Patients were randomized to 70 mg of DHEAS or placebo if their Asthma Control Questionnaire (ACQ) score was 2.0 and their FEV(1)  50%. When compared with control, a statistically significant improvement in ACQ in 6 weeks of treatment with 70 mg of DHEAS was observed. The median improvement in ACQ was -0.72 and -0.43 for the active and placebo groups, respectively (p = 0.0389); the percentage of patients with at least minimally clinically important difference of -0.50 from baseline was significantly greater in the DHEAS group versus the placebo, (59.4% versus 45.7%; p = 0.0236). Asthma symptom scores, the proportion of symptom-free days and symptom nights, although not statistically significant, had positive trends supporting the improvement in ACQ. Fewer patients were withdrawn from the study for respiratory events on DHEAS compared with placebo. There were few adverse events and no changes in sex hormones despite increases in circulating levels of DHEAS. An inhaled suspension of DHEAS delivered via nebulizer improved asthma control scores in subjects with poorly controlled moderate-to-severe asthma. AUSTRALIAN NEW ZEALAND CLINICAL TRIALS REGISTRY ANZCTR.ORG.AU IDENTIFIER: 012607000192482.

UI  - 21707447
TI  - Impact of bariatric surgery on pulmonary function and nitric oxide in asthmatic and non-asthmatic obese patients.
AB  - Bariatric surgery significantly reduces the intake of inhaled corticosteroids and the levels of exhaled nitric oxide, thus bronchial inflammation, in asthmatics.

UI  - 21704360
TI  - Problem solving to improve adherence and asthma outcomes in urban adults with moderate or severe asthma: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - PS was not better than AE in improving adherence or asthma outcomes. However, monitoring ICS use with provision of medications and attention, which was imposed on both groups, was associated with improvement in FEV(1) and asthma control.

UI  - 21698556
TI  - Criteria for the differential indication of asthma education versus asthma instruction for families of preschoolers: results from the randomized DIAT2 study (Differential Indication of Asthma Trainings in Toddlers).
AB  - Families with asthmatic preschoolers displaying dysfunctional interaction, which can only be corrected in an educational process, should be provided with the psycho-educational program promptly.

UI  - 21679353
TI  - Budesonide/formoterol maintenance and reliever therapy versus conventional best standard treatment in asthma in an attempted 'real life' setting.
AB  - Budesonide/formoterol maintenance and reliever therapy resulted in a better overall asthma control with a significant lower daily IGCS dose compared with CBST.

UI  - 21671752
TI  - Comparative pulmonary function and pharmacokinetics of fluticasone propionate and salmeterol xinafoate delivered by two dry powder inhalers to patients with asthma.
AB  - DPI-C provided similar improvement in pulmonary function compared with DPI-A. Pharmacokinetic results showed a greater initial absorption of salmeterol with DPI-C but greater continued absorption and a 40% greater AUC with DPI-A, which we attribute to slower but more extensive oral absorption because of the greater mass of swallowed large particles of salmeterol generated by DPI-A. No patient reported any treatment-related adverse event or use of rescue medication during this study. Determination of the significance of the observed differences in pharmacokinetics from this single-dose study requires further exploration in studies using clinically relevant dosing regimens.

UI  - 21646800
TI  - Differential effects of corticosteroids on serum eosinophil cationic protein and cytokine production in rhinovirus- and respiratory syncytial virus-induced acute exacerbation of childhood asthma.
AB  - These results suggest that the effects of systemic corticosteroids on serum ECP and the cytokine profile are different between rhinovirus- and RS virus-induced acute exacerbation of childhood asthma.

UI  - 21646584
TI  - A randomized controlled trial of parental asthma coaching to improve outcomes among urban minority children.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00149500.

UI  - 21646583
TI  - Effects of a peer-led asthma self-management program for adolescents.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT01161225.

UI  - 21645394
TI  - Comparison of early-, late-, and non-participants in a school-based asthma management program for urban high school students.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT00201058.

UI  - 21636667
TI  - Fluticasone/Salmeterol combination confers benefits in people with asthma who smoke.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov: No.: NCT00830505; URL: www.clinicaltrials.gov.

UI  - 21636120
TI  - Tiotropium improves lung function in patients with severe uncontrolled asthma: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - The addition of once-daily tiotropium to asthma treatment, including a high-dose inhaled corticosteroid plus a long-acting -agonist, significantly improves lung function over 24 hours in patients with inadequately controlled, severe, persistent asthma.

UI  - 21628094
TI  - Congruence between international guidelines and mite specific immunotherapy prescribing practices.
AB  - Both rhinitis (ARIA) and asthma (GINA) guidelines recommend allergen-specific immunotherapy (SIT) tailored to the specific levels of severity of each disease. Real world studies evaluating congruence between these recommendations and prescribing practice in the single patient with comorbidity are lacking. An observational polycentric study was carried out in 518 patients recruited from 34 allergy centers throughout Italy. A questionnaire was administered to each consecutive patient over a span of four months. Taking into account guideline recommendations for both diseases, concomitant in the same patient, three subsets resulted: patients not eligible for SIT (11%); patients eligible for SIT for one disease only (60%); patients eligible for SIT for both diseases (29%). SIT was prescribed in 257 (49.6%) subjects. The level of SIT prescription was about 50% in all three groups. Consistent with the ARIA guidelines, a correlation between the prescription of SIT and the severity of rhinitis was documented (r=0.87; p=0.001). An association with asthma severity was found (p=0.02), but the trend was inconsistent with the GINA recommendations. Young age was the most important factor for SIT prescription both in the eligible for one disease and in the eligible for both diseases subset. The tendency towards worsening of symptoms was a factor for SIT in the eligible for one disease subset. In mite allergic patients with rhinitis and asthma comorbidity, the severity of rhinitis and the young age are the most important factors driving the SIT prescription. The congruence of SIT prescription was better for the ARIA than GINA guidelines.

UI  - 21624752
TI  - Intermittent or daily montelukast versus placebo for episodic asthma in children.
AB  - Montelukast did not reduce the number of asthma episodes culminating in an asthma attack over 1 year in children 6 months to 5 years of age, although numerical improvements occurred in some endpoints.

UI  - 21624490
TI  - Comparison of budesonide/formoterol Turbuhaler with fluticasone/salmeterol Diskus for treatment effects on small airway impairment and airway inflammation in patients with asthma.
AB  - BUD/FM twice daily significantly improved small airway impairment and airway inflammation in asthmatic patients, leading to a reduction in asthma symptoms and achievement of good asthma control. In addition, improvement of small airway function may improve airway inflammation and/or lead to better controlled asthma.

UI  - 21605396
TI  - Fluticasone/formoterol combination therapy is as effective as fluticasone/salmeterol in the treatment of asthma, but has a more rapid onset of action: an open-label, randomized study.
AB  - The results of this study indicate that fluticasone/formoterol is as effective as fluticasone/salmeterol, and has a more rapid onset of action, reflecting the faster bronchodilatory effects of formoterol compared with those of salmeterol. If patients perceive the benefits of therapy with fluticasone/formoterol more rapidly than with fluticasone/salmeterol, this could have a positive impact on preference and adherence.

UI  - 21605124
TI  - Dose-response effects of TPI ASM8 in asthmatics after allergen.
AB  - TPI ASM8 attenuated a broad range of inflammatory and physiological changes after AIC, suggesting that CCR3, IL-3, and GM-CSF also are important targets for the management of asthma.

UI  - 21604921
TI  - Impact of obesity on the severity and therapeutic responsiveness of acute episodes of asthma.
AB  - Obesity does not adversely influence the severity or the resolution of acute episodes of asthma.

UI  - 21604075
TI  - Population PK and IgE pharmacodynamic analysis of a fully human monoclonal antibody against IL4 receptor.
AB  - The population PK model adequately described AMG 317 PK from IV and SC routes over a 60-fold range of doses with two dosing strengths across multiple studies covering healthy volunteers and patients with mild to severe asthma. IgE response across a range of doses and over the sampling time points was found to be related to cumulative AMG 317 exposure.

UI  - 21602542
TI  - Associations between fluctuations in lung function and asthma control in two populations with differing asthma severity.
AB  - Lung function history quantified by fluctuation analysis provides additional information to mean lung function, and may help characterise the current state of asthma control. It may also potentially aid in phenotyping clinical asthma.

UI  - 21597303
TI  - Safety of parecoxib in asthmatic patients with aspirin-exacerbated respiratory disease.
AB  - The drug was well tolerated by all patients, with no adverse reactions. This lack of reactions found in our study supports the fact that parecoxib could be a safe alternative in postsurgery analgesia in NSAID-intolerant asthma patients.

UI  - 21595154
TI  - [Cost effectiveness of BDP/formoterol fixed vs. two single inhalers in the treatment of bronchial asthma].
AB  - 

UI  - 21586508
TI  - Is the patient's baseline inhaled steroid dose a factor for choosing the budesonide/formoterol maintenance and reliever therapy regimen?
AB  - Compared with the LD and MD strata, the HD stratum patients had more exacerbations and a shorter time to first exacerbation. However, there were no differences in response between the 1  2 and 2  2 groups in any of the strata. This indicates that patients using budesonide/formoterol maintenance and reliever therapy, irrespective of baseline ICS dose, can be switched to 1  2 with its lower steroid load. ACQ(5) scores improved more in the HD stratum than in the MD and LD strata indicating, among other things, that HD patients were not overtreated at baseline.

UI  - 21584948
TI  - A cumulative dose, safety and tolerability study of arformoterol in pediatric subjects with stable asthma.
AB  - In this study, in children with stable asthma, three consecutive doses of arformoterol (7.5 and 15 g) and levalbuterol were overall well tolerated. Nonetheless, serum potassium levels demonstrated substantial mean declines after dosing. These findings do not address or support the safety and tolerability of arformoterol use in acute exacerbations of asthma in children.

UI  - 21563035
TI  - Urine concentrations of repetitive doses of inhaled salbutamol.
AB  - We examined blood and urine concentrations of repetitive doses of inhaled salbutamol in relation to the existing cut-off value used in routine doping control. We compared the concentrations in asthmatics with regular use of beta2-agonists prior to study and healthy controls with no previous use of beta2-agonists. We enrolled 10 asthmatics and 10 controls in an open-label study in which subjects inhaled repetitive doses of 400 microgram salbutamol every second hour (total 1600 microgram), which is the permitted daily dose by the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA). Blood samples were collected at baseline, 30 min, 1, 2, 3, 4, and 6 h after the first inhalations. Urine samples were collected at baseline, 0-4 h, 4-8 h, and 8-12 h after the first inhalations. Median urine concentrations peaked in the period 4-8 h after the first inhalations in the asthmatics and between 8-12 h in controls and the median ranged from 268 to 611 ngmL (-1). No samples exceeded the WADA threshold value of 1000 ngmL (-1) when corrected for the urine specific gravity. When not corrected one sample exceeded the cut-off value with urine concentration of 1082 ngmL (-1). In conclusion we found no differences in blood and urine concentrations between asthmatic and healthy subjects. We found high variability in urine concentrations between subjects in both groups. The variability between subjects was still present after the samples were corrected for urine specific gravity.

UI  - 21560485
TI  - Comparison of salbutamol efficacy in children--via the metered-dose inhaler (MDI) with Volumatic spacer and via the dry powder inhaler, Easyhaler, with the nebulizer--in mild to moderate asthma exacerbation: a multicenter, randomized study.
AB  - Salbutamol administered via pMDI with Volumatic spacer or DPI (Easyhaler) are as effective as salbutamol given via a nebulizer in providing effective relief of mild to moderate severity acute asthma exacerbation in children between 5 and 18 years of age.

UI  - 21560266
TI  - Effects of a single dose inhaled corticosteroid on the dynamics of airway obstruction after exercise.
AB  - Repetitive spirometric and FOT measurements after exercise show a rapid narrowing and steady recovery of the patency of the conducting airways, and indicate a delayed and prolonged recovery of the smaller airways. A single high dose of inhaled FP seems to employ its effect mainly in the conducting airways.

UI  - 21554855
TI  - A pragmatic single-blind randomised controlled trial and economic evaluation of the use of leukotriene receptor antagonists in primary care at steps 2 and 3 of the national asthma guidelines (ELEVATE study).
AB  - 

UI  - 21546232
TI  - Expiratory flows and airway inflammation in elderly asthmatic patients.
AB  - Asthma in the elderly is often underrecognized and suboptimally treated, resulting in an increased morbidity and mortality. The characteristics of asthma-related bronchitis and its optimal treatment remain to be determined in this population. We aimed to compare lung function and airway inflammation in elderly and younger asthmatic subjects. Data from two induced sputum databases were analyzed in three groups of asthmatic subjects (18-30 y, n = 136; 31-59 y, n = 385; 60-72 y, n = 172) and one group of healthy elderly subjects (60-89 y, n = 16). Expiratory flows and induced sputum cell counts were analyzed. Airway obstruction was more marked in elderly asthmatics compared with healthy elderly or younger asthmatic subjects (p < 0.01). An increase in sputum neutrophils and a decrease in macrophages and lymphocytes were observed in elderly asthmatics (p < 0.0001). Neutrophil percentages significantly increased with asthma severity in the young and the middle-aged groups, while they remained similar in elderly asthmatics regardless of asthma severity (p < 0.05). Neutrophil percentages weakly correlated with the dose of ICS in all asthmatics (r = 0.17, p < 0.0001). Age and dose of ICS were independent predictors of neutrophil percentage in asthmatic subjects in a regression model (R(2) = 0.12). Asthma in the elderly is associated with a more marked airway obstruction and sputum neutrophilia. Both age and the dose of corticosteroids need to be considered in the interpretation of the clinical relevance of sputum neutrophil count.

UI  - 21545619
TI  - Combined pharmacogenetic effect of ADCY9 and ADRB2 gene polymorphisms on the bronchodilator response to inhaled combination therapy.
AB  - Our results suggest that ADCY9 gene polymorphisms may alone, and in combination with ADRB2 gene polymorphisms, contribute to individual response to combination therapy in mild to moderate asthmatics.

UI  - 21545249
TI  - The efficacy and tolerability of inhaled montelukast plus inhaled mometasone compared with mometasone alone in patients with chronic asthma.
AB  - Inhaled montelukast plus inhaled mometasone was significantly more effective than placebo plus inhaled mometasone in improving FEV(1), symptoms, asthma control, and blood eosinophil count.

UI  - 21542741
TI  - Leukotriene antagonists as first-line or add-on asthma-controller therapy.
AB  - Study results at 2 months suggest that LTRA was equivalent to an inhaled glucocorticoid as first-line controller therapy and to LABA as add-on therapy for diverse primary care patients. Equivalence was not proved at 2 years. The interpretation of results of pragmatic research may be limited by the crossover between treatment groups and lack of a placebo group. (Funded by the National Coordinating Centre for Health Technology Assessment U.K. and others; Controlled Clinical Trials number, ISRCTN99132811.).

UI  - 21536936
TI  - Omalizumab in severe allergic asthma inadequately controlled with standard therapy: a randomized trial.
AB  - Genentech and Novartis Pharmaceuticals.

UI  - 21511980
TI  - The effects of coping skills training among teens with asthma.
AB  - This pilot study used a pretest and posttest design to examine the effect of a school-based intervention, Coping Skills Training, among teens with asthma (N = 39) aged 14 to 18 years randomly assigned to treatment and control groups from three midwestern high schools. Variables included asthma self-efficacy, social support, asthma-related quality of life, peak expiratory flow rate, asthma diary symptoms, and rescue medication usage. The treatment group scored significantly higher on self-efficacy (p < .001), activity-related quality of life (p = .05), and social support (p < .001) compared with the control group after using ANCOVA to adjust for baseline scores. Significant improvements were also noted from pre- to posttest in the treatment group for self-efficacy (p < .001) and quality of life (p = .02). This study indicates that Coping Skills Training is an important intervention for further study with teens with asthma.

UI  - 21511454
TI  - A study of a multi-level intervention to improve non-adherence in difficult to control asthma.
AB  - Poor adherence in difficult-to control asthma is common, but when identified and targeted can be improved and this is associated with large improvements in important healthcare outcomes. Previous nihilism towards non-adherence in this population is not supported by this study.

UI  - 21502475
TI  - Association of asthma with clinically aggressive recurrent respiratory papillomatosis.
AB  - Patients with asthma, particularly those using daily inhaled corticosteroids, may have a more clinically aggressive RRP course. The cause of this association is unclear, and clinical recommendations should not yet be made based on these data.

UI  - 21476864
TI  - The influence of inhaled fluticasone on bone metabolism and calciuria in asthmatic children.
AB  - Treatment with 200-250g/day inhaled fluticasone, in asthmatic children aged 9-16, during 12 weeks, did not affect serum osteocalcin level and renal excretion of calcium, sodium, and potassium.

UI  - 21474498
TI  - Internet-based tapering of oral corticosteroids in severe asthma: a pragmatic randomised controlled trial.
AB  - An internet-based management tool including home monitoring of symptoms, lung function and FE(NO) in severe asthma is superior to conventional treatment in reducing total corticosteroid consumption without compromising asthma control or asthma-related quality of life. Clinical trial registration number Clinical trial registered with http://www.trialregister.nl (Netherlands Trial Register number 1146).

UI  - 21473764
TI  - Effects of short-term treatment with atorvastatin in smokers with asthma--a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Clinicaltrials.gov identifier: NCT00463827.

UI  - 21465678
TI  - Lung function changes in asthmatic children treated with HFA-BDP.
AB  - Compared to conventional ICS, the use of HFA-BDP in asthmatic children significantly improves airflow in both the large and the peripheral airways without loss of asthma control.

UI  - 21446235
TI  - Lung function response to bronchodilator nebulization via hood in wheezy infants: a pilot study.
AB  - Nebulized salbutamol induced a variable but positive response in wheezy infants. Salbutamol via hood was as effective as conventional face mask delivery. Since it is simple and patient-friendly, it could replace the face mask method particularly with uncooperative infants.

UI  - 21442078
TI  - Comparative clinical and airway inflammatory features of asthmatics with or without polyps.
AB  - Asthmatic subjects with NP have increased airway obstruction, increased inflammatory cells and reduced asthma control compared to those without NP. This may suggest a contribution of nasal polyps to the severity of asthma or a common susceptibility to develop upper and lower airways mucosal inflammation.

UI  - 21438413
TI  - [Effect of integrated traditional Chinese and Western medicine on Th1/Th2 cytokines level in children with asthma].
AB  - Treating children asthma by integrated traditional Chinese and western medicine can obviously reduce IL4 and IL-13, increase IFN-gamma, and therefore lighten the airway inflammation, prevent asthma attacks effectively.
