
UI  - 25080657
TI  - Cough in asthma triggered by reflux episodes.
AB  - With combined pH and impedance monitoring, non-acid, as well as acid reflux episodes, are more commonly detected immediately prior to cough in asthma in children. Gastroesophageal reflux should be evaluated as a trigger for cough in difficult childhood asthma.

UI  - 25069200
TI  - [Influence of different skin reactions of acupoint-application on clinical outcomes in the prevention and treatment of bronchial asthma].
AB  - Acupoint-application in the dog-days can effectively improve the asthma patients' symptoms, and the therapeutic effect of patients experiencing moderate and severe skin reactions was better.

UI  - 25004835
TI  - Risk factors affecting quality of life in a group of Italian children with asthma.
AB  - The measure of Quality of Life (QoL) has become one of the most important criteria used to assess the impact of chronic illness, such as asthma, on the patients daily life, in adults and children alike. The objective of our open observational study was to measure the QoL and analyze several factors that potentially affect QoL, such as symptoms and functional respiratory parameters, in a cohort of children with asthma. One hundred and twenty-seven children with asthma, 6 to 14 years of age, living in the city of Rome, were enrolled as outpatients. They were subjected to Skin Prick Tests (SPT), underwent spirometry and filled out the Pediatric Asthma Quality of Life Questionnaire (PAQLQ). One hundred and eleven children were diagnosed with intermittent asthma, 12 (10&#x0025;) with mild asthma, and four with moderate persistent asthma. Ninety-six children had a positive SPT. The mean total score of QoL, obtained from the questionnaire, was 5.4 (&#x2213;1.2 SD). Two QoL groups were created. Children with total QoL score <5.5 were included in the Lower QoL score group while children with total QoL score &#8805; 5.5 were included in the Higher QoL score group. Children in the Higher group and their mothers had a higher mean age, suffered from fewer asthma exacerbations during the year preceding the study, and showed a higher mean value of forced expiratory volume (FEV1) compared to the children in the Lower category. Using Logistic regression we identified the main factors that may affect QoL as FEV1, symptoms in the previous year and mothers age. QoL is correlated with the frequency of asthma exacerbations and FEV1 values. Furthermore, our research shows that a significant impairment of QoL may also occur in patients with normal lung function, pointing out the importance of evaluating QoL in all children with asthma.

UI  - 25003730
TI  - Role of budesonide/formoterol maintenance and reliever therapy: a pragmatic study.
AB  - BUD/FORM SMART is effective in real-life clinical practice. On average, patients who received a low dose steroid in the form of BUD/FORM, had a satisfactorily high proportion of asthma control and had a low rate of ER visits and hospitalization. BUD/FORM maintenance and reliever therapy seems to be promising as a treatment approach for persistent asthma in every day clinical practice.

UI  - 25003729
TI  - The prevalence of obstructive sleep apnea in patients with difficult-to-treat asthma.
AB  - The study showed that there is a remarkably high prevalence of OSA in DTA. Although no statistically significant relationship between the presence of OSA and clinical asthma characteristics was identified, all DTA patients should be assessed for OSA.

UI  - 25003728
TI  - Satisfaction level and asthma control among Malaysian asthma patients on Symbicort Maintenance and Reliever Therapy (SMART) in the primary care setting (SMARTEST study).
AB  - Symbicort SMART resulted in a high satisfaction level and asthma control among Malaysian patients treated in the primary care setting and it is an effective and appealing treatment for asthmatic patients.

UI  - 24950849
TI  - Fractional exhaled nitric oxide of at least 100 ppb and implications for future asthma research.
AB  - 

UI  - 24892144
TI  - Classification of childhood asthma phenotypes and long-term clinical responses to inhaled anti-inflammatory medications.
AB  - Phenotypic clustering can be used to identify longitudinally consistent and clinically relevant patient subgroups, with implications for targeted therapeutic strategies and clinical trials design.

UI  - 24890720
TI  - Aspirin activation of eosinophils and mast cells: implications in the pathogenesis of aspirin-exacerbated respiratory disease.
AB  - Reactions to aspirin and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs in patients with aspirin-exacerbated respiratory disease (AERD) are triggered when constraints upon activated eosinophils, normally supplied by PGE2, are removed secondary to cyclooxygenase-1 inhibition. However, the mechanism driving the concomitant cellular activation is unknown. We investigated the capacity of aspirin itself to provide this activation signal. Eosinophils were enriched from peripheral blood samples and activated with lysine ASA (LysASA). Parallel samples were stimulated with related nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. Activation was evaluated as Ca2+ flux, secretion of cysteinyl leukotrienes (CysLT), and eosinophil-derived neurotoxin (EDN) release. CD34+ progenitor-derived mast cells were also used to test the influence of aspirin on human mast cells with measurements of Ca2+ flux and PGD2 release. LysASA induced Ca2+ fluxes and EDN release, but not CysLT secretion from circulating eosinophils. There was no difference in the sensitivity or extent of activation between AERD and control subjects, and sodium salicylate was without effect. Like eosinophils, aspirin was able to activate human mast cells directly through Ca2+ flux and PGD2 release. AERD is associated with eosinophils maturing locally in a high IFN- milieu. As such, in additional studies, eosinophil progenitors were differentiated in the presence of IFN- prior to activation with aspirin. Eosinophils matured in the presence of IFN- displayed robust secretion of both EDN and CysLTs. These studies identify aspirin as the trigger of eosinophil and mast cell activation in AERD, acting in synergy with its ability to release cells from the anti-inflammatory constraints of PGE2.

UI  - 24846652
TI  - Effects of an anti-TSLP antibody on allergen-induced asthmatic responses.
AB  - Treatment with AMG 157 reduced allergen-induced bronchoconstriction and indexes of airway inflammation before and after allergen challenge. These findings are consistent with a key role for TSLP in allergen-induced airway responses and persistent airway inflammation in patients with allergic asthma. Whether anti-TSLP therapeutics will have clinical value cannot be determined from these data. (Funded by Amgen; ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT01405963.).

UI  - 24838406
TI  - Effect of vitamin D3 on asthma treatment failures in adults with symptomatic asthma and lower vitamin D levels: the VIDA randomized clinical trial.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT01248065.

UI  - 24835583
TI  - Association of center volume with outcomes in critically ill children with acute asthma.
AB  - In children with acute asthma, this study establishes a relation between center volume and ICU length of stay. However, this study fails to show any significant relation between center volume and the odds of receiving positive pressure ventilation; further analyses are needed to evaluate this relation in more detail.

UI  - 24824230
TI  - Increased C-reactive protein is associated with airway wall thickness in steroid-naive asthma.
AB  - University Hospital Medical Information Network (www.umin.ac.jp/ctr/index/htm); identifier, UMIN000006724.

UI  - 24821412
TI  - The nonallergic asthma of obesity. A matter of distal lung compliance.
AB  - Weight loss decompresses the lung in both obese control subjects and patients with asthma, but the more pronounced effects of weight loss on lung elastance suggest that the distal lung is inherently more collapsible in people with asthma.

UI  - 24814759
TI  - Patient initiation and persistence with allergen immunotherapy.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT01549340.

UI  - 24800595
TI  - Features of severe asthma in young children from Romania.
AB  - Asthma is the most frequent chronic disease of childhood. In spite of significant improvement of treatment options and diagnostic tools, asthma remains in many patients uncontrolled. The term of "severe asthma" seems to be rather a large umbrella for a heterogeneous group of diseases. This paper is presenting our experience in two respiratory disease clinics that evaluate asthmatic children. Current study was designed to test an algorithm for daily practice in a special group of patients: children with previously diagnosed asthma or recurrent-wheezing, evaluated by family physician or pediatrician as severe disease ("Asthma Decalogue in Children"). Out of 313 referrals (during a six months inclusion time) we had 202 children completing study per-protocol. 49 (22.69%) had severe disease, but only 8 had severe asthma (3.7% of total patients and 18.6% of severe patients). They were older, with less male predominance and with more frequent rhino-conjunctivitis and D vitamin deficiency than other asthmatic children with less severe disease. Asthma Decalogue in Children seems to be an efficient tool to differentiate severe asthma from the rest of children with reactive airway diseases.

UI  - 24796049
TI  - [Research on correlation between lung and large intestine based on meridian and acupoint palpation in patients with bronchial asthma].
AB  - The existence of correlation between the Lung Meridian and the Large Intestine Meridians under pathological condition can be proved through meridian and acupoint palpation on bronchial asthma patients.

UI  - 24783928
TI  - An magnetic resonance-based plasma metabonomic investigation on abnormal Savda in different complicated diseases.
AB  - The data indicate that decreased oxidative defense, liver function abnormalities, amino acid deficiencies, and energy metabolism disorders are common characteristics of complicated diseases, which may be related to the formation of abnormal Savda.

UI  - 24779482
TI  - Self-management behaviors in older adults with asthma: associations with health literacy.
AB  - Adherence to medications and inhaler technique are poor in older adults with asthma and worse in those with low health literacy. Clinicians should routinely assess controller medication adherence and inhaler technique and use low-literacy communication strategies to support self-management in older adults with asthma.

UI  - 24776522
TI  - The safety of specific immunotherapy for patients allergic to house-dust mites and pollen in relation to the development of neoplasia and autoimmune disease: a long-term, observational case-control study.
AB  - The results of this long-term observational study indicate a lack of a significant prevalence for new instances of neoplastic and autoimmune diseases, which suggests that SIT in the long term is indeed safe.

UI  - 24772585
TI  - Comparison between the effects of generic and original salmeterol/fluticasone combination (SFC) treatment on airway inflammation in stable asthmatic patients.
AB  - This short-term study demonstrated that there was no significant difference between generic SFC and original SFC in terms of anti-inflammatory activity and the control of asthma symptoms. However, it is completely unknown whether generic SFC could effectively prevent the development of asthma exacerbations on a long-term basis. Therefore, longer-term studies are indicated to evaluate generic SFC's relative efficacy on asthma exacerbations.

UI  - 24714184
TI  - [Development and effectiveness of a tailored education program for caregivers of asthmatic children].
AB  - These findings indicate the benefit of a tailored education program to control symptoms in such caregivers.

UI  - 24713632
TI  - Normocaloric diet improves asthma-related quality of life in obese pubertal adolescents.
AB  - The normocaloric dietary intervention was associated with improvement of AR-QOL and some aspects of asthma control. Such structured dietary programs could probably have a role as a complementary non-pharmacological therapeutic strategy in obese pubertal adolescents with asthma.

UI  - 24698319
TI  - Detection of pathogenic bacteria during rhinovirus infection is associated with increased respiratory symptoms and asthma exacerbations.
AB  - Rhinovirus infection enhances detection of specific bacterial pathogens in children with and without asthma. Furthermore, these findings suggest that M catarrhalis and S pneumoniae contribute to the severity of respiratory tract illnesses, including asthma exacerbations.

UI  - 24669757
TI  - Pathway from central obesity to childhood asthma. Physical fitness and sedentary time are leading factors.
AB  - Central obesity measures should be incorporated in childhood asthma risk predictions. Children are encouraged to increase their physical fitness levels and reduce their sedentary time to prevent central obesity-related asthma.

UI  - 24660603
TI  - Regulatory effects of stage-treatment with established Chinese herbal formulas on inflammatory mediators in pediatric asthma.
AB  - Chinese medication has a regulatory effect on leukotriene receptor gene expression and the imbalance of Th1/Th2 immune cells during asthma attacks in pediatric patients.

UI  - 24660579
TI  - Curative effect of heat-sensitive moxibustion on chronic persistent asthma: a multicenter randomized controlled trial.
AB  - This study shows that heat-sensitive moxibustion may have a comparable curative effect to Seretide (salmetero/fluticasone) on asthma.

UI  - 24657956
TI  - Is yoga training beneficial for exercise-induced bronchoconstriction?
AB  - This study showed that training children in the practice of yoga had beneficial effects on EIB. It is the research team's opinion that yoga training can supplement drug therapy to achieve better control of asthma.

UI  - 24650443
TI  - Influence of 2-adrenoceptor 16 genotype on propranolol-induced bronchoconstriction in patients with persistent asthma.
AB  - 

UI  - 24641293
TI  - Neutrophilic asthma is characterised by increased rhinosinusitis with sleep disturbance and GERD.
AB  - The clinical pattern of neutrophilic asthma is different from paucigranulocytic and eosinophilic asthma with evidence of abnormal upper airways responses. Specific and targeted treatment of these airway problems may assist in the control and management of neutrophilic asthma.

UI  - 24607048
TI  - Clinical burden and predictors of asthma exacerbations in patients on guideline-based steps 4-6 asthma therapy in the TENOR cohort.
AB  - Despite multiple long-term controller medications, patients with severe or difficult-to-treat asthma on Steps 4/5/6 therapy present with significant clinical burden and risk of future asthma exacerbations.

UI  - 24607045
TI  - Ongoing allergic rhinitis impairs asthma control by enhancing the lower airway inflammation.
AB  - This observational study of patients with atopy indicates that the ongoing allergic rhinitis is related to worsening of asthma by enhancing the lower airway inflammation.

UI  - 24589344
TI  - Unsupervised phenotyping of Severe Asthma Research Program participants using expanded lung data.
AB  - The unsupervised machine learning approaches used here provide unique insights into disease, confirming other approaches while revealing novel additional phenotypes.

UI  - 24583137
TI  - Potential predictors of relapse after treatment of asthma exacerbations in children.
AB  - Whereas having taken short-acting 2-agonists within 6 hours before admission and the presence of retractions on physical examination increased the risk of relapse after treatment of the acute attack, being given high-dose inhaled steroids and a written instructional plan when being sent home reduced the risk.

UI  - 24582316
TI  - Efficacy and safety of an anti-IL-13 mAb in patients with severe asthma: a randomized trial.
AB  - Although well tolerated, GSK679586 did not demonstrate clinically meaningful improvements in asthma control, pulmonary function, or exacerbations in patients with severe asthma. Further studies are needed to determine whether therapies targeting IL-13, the functionally related IL-4 cytokine, or both can provide clinical benefit in patients with severe refractory asthma or a subpopulation of these patients beyond that achievable with high-dose corticosteroids.

UI  - 24582168
TI  - Integrating longitudinal information on pulmonary function and inflammation using asthma phenotypes.
AB  - 

UI  - 24565542
TI  - Short-acting -agonist use as a marker of current asthma control.
AB  - Our findings support the use of the number of days of albuterol use, the average number of albuterol actuations per day, and the highest number of albuterol actuations per day over a 1-week period of observation as comparable markers of current asthma control.

UI  - 24565456
TI  - Biologic mechanisms of environmental tobacco smoke in children with poorly controlled asthma: results from a multicenter clinical trial.
AB  - Domestic smoking exposure was associated with both higher rates of symptomatic respiratory infection and poorer asthma control despite generally intensive controller therapy. ETS exposure is common among asthmatic children with poor control and may worsen asthma control by promoting respiratory infections. Further investigation is required to elucidate ETS mechanisms in poor asthma control.

UI  - 24565455
TI  - Reassessment of omalizumab-dosing strategies and pharmacodynamics in inner-city children and adolescents.
AB  - A significant portion of children and adolescents particularly suited for omalizumab because of asthma severity status may be ineligible due to IgE >1300 IU/mL. Omalizumab reduced asthma symptoms and exacerbations rapidly; features associated with efficacy can be identified to guide patient selection.

UI  - 24549371
TI  - Clinical and preclinical characterization of the histamine H(4) receptor antagonist JNJ-39758979.
AB  - The histamine H4 receptor (H(4)R) has been shown to have preclinical involvement in both inflammatory and pruritic responses. JNJ-39758979 [(R)-4-(3-amino-pyrrolidin-1-yl)-6-isopropyl-pyrimidin-2-ylamine] is a potent and selective H(4)R antagonist with a Ki at the human receptor of 12.5  2.6 nM and greater than 80-fold selectivity over other histamine receptors. The compound also exhibited excellent selectivity versus other targets. JNJ-39758979 showed dose-dependent activity in models of asthma and dermatitis consistent with other H(4)R antagonists. Preclinical toxicity studies of up to 6 months in rats and 9 months in monkeys indicated an excellent safety profile, supporting the clinical testing of the compound. An oral formulation of JNJ-39758979 was studied in a phase 1 human volunteer study to assess safety, pharmacokinetics, and pharmacodynamics. The compound was well tolerated, with the exception of dose-dependent nausea, and no safety issues were noted in the phase 1 study. JNJ-39758979 exhibited good pharmacokinetics upon oral dosing with a plasma half-life of 124-157 hours after a single oral dose. In addition, dose-dependent inhibition of histamine-induced eosinophil shape change was detected, suggesting that the H4R was inhibited in vivo. In conclusion, JNJ-39758979 is a potent and selective H(4)R antagonist that exhibited good preclinical and phase 1 safety in healthy volunteers with evidence of a pharmacodynamics effect in humans.

UI  - 24522786
TI  - Multidisciplinary Approach to Management of Maternal Asthma (MAMMA): a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Australian and New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry; No.: ACTRN12612000681853; URL: www.anzctr.org.au.

UI  - 24517110
TI  - Improving preventive care in high risk children with asthma: lessons learned.
AB  - A clinician and caregiver feedback intervention was unsuccessful in increasing asthma preventive care compared to an attention control group. Further research is needed to develop interventions to effectively prevent morbidity in high risk inner-city children with frequent ED utilization.

UI  - 24507830
TI  - Variability of methacholine bronchoprovocation and the effect of inhaled corticosteroids in mild asthma.
AB  - The effect of ICS on PC20 is not dose dependent at fluticasone levels of 250 and 1,000 g/d. Interpersonal variability for PC20 is large. A lack of precise measurements should be taken into account when interpreting any change in PC20.

UI  - 24503268
TI  - Comorbidity of eczema, rhinitis, and asthma in IgE-sensitised and non-IgE-sensitised children in MeDALL: a population-based cohort study.
AB  - Coexistence of eczema, rhinitis, and asthma in the same child is more common than expected by chance alone-both in the presence and absence of IgE sensitisation-suggesting that these diseases share causal mechanisms. Although IgE sensitisation is independently associated with excess comorbidity of eczema, rhinitis, and asthma, its presence accounted only for 38% of comorbidity, suggesting that IgE sensitisation can no longer be considered the dominant causal mechanism of comorbidity for these diseases.

UI  - 24491312
TI  - Mouse and cockroach exposure in rural Arkansas Delta region homes.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT00590304.

UI  - 24490521
TI  - [Using carboxymethl starch sodium solution for the treatment of children with cough variation asthma].
AB  - Carboxymethl starch sodium solution can boost the clinical efficiency of inhaled budesonide in the treatment of children with cough variant asthma. It is safe and effectual.

UI  - 24488745
TI  - Role of financial and social hardships in asthma racial disparities.
AB  - African American children were twice as likely to be readmitted as white children; hardships explained >40% of this disparity. Additional factors (eg, pollution, tobacco exposure, housing quality) may explain residual disparities. Targeted interventions could help achieve greater child health equity.

UI  - 24485129
TI  - Prehospital use of inhaled corticosteroids and point prevalence of pneumonia at the time of hospital admission: secondary analysis of a multicenter cohort study.
AB  - When adjusted for multiple confounding variables, ICS use was not substantially associated with an increased risk for pneumonia requiring admission in our cohort.

UI  - 24471516
TI  - The effectiveness of an indoor intermittent training program for improving lung function, physical capacity, body composition and quality of life in children with asthma.
AB  - An indoor intermittent training program with these characteristics has improved lung function, physical capacity, body composition and quality of life in children with asthma. These training adaptations are particularly relevant for those patients suffering from asthma as a regular physical exercise routine will greatly improve their quality of life.

UI  - 24468263
TI  - Test-retest reliability of the International Study of Asthma and Allergies in Childhood questionnaire for a web-based survey.
AB  - 

UI  - 24468262
TI  - Urinary triclosan levels and recent asthma exacerbations.
AB  - 

UI  - 24446438
TI  - Cotinine in children admitted for asthma and readmission.
AB  - Detectable serum and salivary cotinine levels were common among children admitted for asthma and were associated with readmission, whereas caregiver report of tobacco exposure was not.

UI  - 24429275
TI  - Efficacy and safety of RPL554, a dual PDE3 and PDE4 inhibitor, in healthy volunteers and in patients with asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease: findings from four clinical trials.
AB  - Verona Pharma.

UI  - 24429155
TI  - Magnesium sulphate in acute severe asthma in children (MAGNETIC): a randomised, placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment Programme.

UI  - 24429154
TI  - Intravenous or nebulised magnesium sulphate versus standard therapy for severe acute asthma (3Mg trial): a double-blind, randomised controlled trial.
AB  - UK National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment Programme.

UI  - 24428972
TI  - Leukotriene B4 receptor 1 is differentially expressed on peripheral T cells of steroid-sensitive and -resistant asthmatics.
AB  - Differences in BLT1 expression, steroid sensitivity, and cytokine production were demonstrated in T lymphocytes from patients with SS and SR asthma. The LTB4-BLT1 pathway in CD8(+) cells may play an important role in asthma and serve as an important target in the treatment of patients with SR asthma.

UI  - 24418480
TI  - Outcomes after cessation of mepolizumab therapy in severe eosinophilic asthma: a 12-month follow-up analysis.
AB  - 

UI  - 24404799
TI  - Discrepancies between medical record data and parent reported use of preventive asthma medications.
AB  - Medical records may poorly reflect actual home practices and providers should specifically inquire about medication use and barriers to adherence at the time of an office visit to promote guideline-based, consistent treatment for children with persistent asthma.

UI  - 24404797
TI  - Bronchodilator response as a hallmark of uncontrolled asthma: a randomised clinical trial.
AB  - BD response can be used as a reliable measure of asthma control. This study suggests that ACQ5 scores alone are not sufficient to fully assess asthma control, and that BD response should be included as an essential measurement in any algorithm of asthma control evaluation.

UI  - 24401150
TI  - Quantification of pulmonary inflammation after segmental allergen challenge using turbo-inversion recovery-magnitude magnetic resonance imaging.
AB  - The MRI-based noninvasive TIRM score is a promising biomarker for the noninvasive detection of the inflammatory response after segmental allergen challenge in patients with asthma and may serve to monitor the therapeutic effectiveness of novel antiinflammatory drugs in future human trials.

UI  - 24395611
TI  - Comorbidity profile of chronic rhinosinusitis: a population-based study.
AB  - 3b.

UI  - 24384609
TI  - Budesonide nebulization added to systemic prednisolone in the treatment of acute asthma in children: a double-blind, randomized, controlled trial.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov; No.: NCT01524198; URL: www.clinicaltrials.gov

UI  - 24373352
TI  - Plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 in sputum and nasal lavage fluids increases in asthmatic patients during common colds.
AB  - 

UI  - 24370901
TI  - Association between atopy and herpetic eye disease: results from the pacific ocular inflammation study.
AB  - AND RELEVANCE The association between atopy and herpetic eye disease may be explained by various factors, including immunologic dysfunction in patients with atopy. Clinically, these results could help support the diagnosis of herpetic eye disease in these patients.

UI  - 24366613
TI  - Differences in effects of omalizumab on late-phase responses to allergen challenge in the skin and nose at the time of basophil hyporesponsiveness.
AB  - 

UI  - 24351067
TI  - Externalizing and internalizing behavioural problems related to asthma in school children.
AB  - We investigated the relationships of behavioural problems as assessed using the standardized Strengths and Difficulties Questionnaire (SDQ) to asthma in view of improving asthma management. Six thousand eight hundred and eighty children (mean age 10.4 years, male: 49%) were recruited in the French 6 Cities Study. Children with abnormal or borderline emotional symptoms (internalizing problems) or conduct problems (externalizing problems) were more asthmatic than others (P < 0.01). Compared to being normal, abnormal emotional symptoms or conduct problems were found to be related to mild-to-moderate persistent asthma (logistic model adjusted odds ratio = 1.55 (95% CI = 1.26-1.90) and 1.42 (95% CI = 1.17-1.71), respectively) and to early-onset asthma (Cox's model Adjusted Hazard Risk = 1.60 (95% CI = 1.27-2.01) and 1.34 (95% CI = 1.05-1.70). Borderline conduct problems were found to be negatively related to parents' knowledge on how to prevent asthma attacks, compared to normal conduct problems [adjusted OR = 0.51 (95% CI = 0.31-0.85)]. Further data are needed to better understand the involvement of behavioural problems in childhood asthma according to phenotypes.

UI  - 24350503
TI  - Payment to participants in pediatric research: variation in IRB members' attitudes.
AB  - 

UI  - 24343824
TI  - Effect of inhaled MgSO4 on FEV1 and PEF in children with asthma induced by acetylcholine: a randomized controlled clinical trail of 330 cases.
AB  - Nebulized magnesium sulfate alone has a bronchodilatory effect in Ach-induced asthmatic children. The combination of MgSO4 and albuterol did not has a synergistic effect.

UI  - 24342546
TI  - Atopy and allergic respiratory disease in rural Poland before and after accession to the European Union.
AB  - We report a substantial increase in atopy at all ages and in a remarkably short period of time in a Polish population whose farm-related exposures were dramatically reduced after their country's accession to the European Union.

UI  - 24321217
TI  - "Causes of death in asthma, COPD and non-respiratory hospitalized patients: a multicentric study".
AB  - Cardiovascular disease is the most frequent cause of death among hospitalized asthma patients. The specific causes of death differ between asthma and COPD patients.

UI  - 24315502
TI  - Phenotypes determined by cluster analysis in severe or difficult-to-treat asthma.
AB  - Distinct phenotypes appear to exist in patients with severe or difficult-to-treat asthma, which is related to outcomes in adolescents and adults but not in children. The study of the therapeutic implications of these phenotypes is warranted.

UI  - 24314123
TI  - Qualitative assessment of attributes and ease of use of the ELLIPTA dry powder inhaler for delivery of maintenance therapy for asthma and COPD.
AB  - The ELLIPTA DPI was associated with high patient satisfaction and was preferred to other inhalers by interview participants with asthma and COPD. The development of an inhaler that is regarded as easy and intuitive to use may have positive implications for adherence to therapy in asthma and COPD.

UI  - 24309610
TI  - Abnormal pulmonary function and associated risk factors in children and adolescents with sickle cell anemia.
AB  - Obstructive and restrictive pulmonary changes develop in children with sickle cell disease, but reports conflict as to the type of change that predominates. We prospectively performed spirometry, plethysmography, and lung diffusing capacity in 146 children aged 7 to 20 years with hemoglobin SS or S(0)-thalassemia. Nineteen percent of the patients had obstructive physiology as defined according to guidelines of the American Thoracic Society. In addition, 9% had restrictive physiology and 11% had abnormal but not categorized physiology. Increasing age, patient-reported or family-reported history of asthma or wheezing, and higher lactate dehydrogenase concentration were independent predictors of obstruction as reflected in lower forced expiratory volume in the first second/forced vital capacity. In conclusion, abnormal pulmonary function, most often obstructive, is common in children with hemoglobin SS and S(0)-thalassemia. Full pulmonary function testing should be performed in children with hemoglobin SS or S(0)-thalassemia, especially with history of asthma or wheezing and accentuated elevations in hemolytic markers.

UI  - 24298762
TI  - [Asthma at acute attack stage treated with "Shao's five needling therapy": a multi-central randomized controlled study].
AB  - "Shao's five needling therapy" achieves the significant efficacy on asthma at acute attack stage. It significantly relieves the symptoms and physical signs of the patients and improves lung functions. The effect is better than that of theophylline sustained release tablet.

UI  - 24290290
TI  - Obesity and adiposity indicators, asthma, and atopy in Puerto Rican children.
AB  - Adiposity indicators are associated with asthma, asthma severity/control, and atopy in Puerto Rican children. Atopy significantly mediates the effect of adiposity on asthma outcomes. Longitudinal studies are needed to further investigate the causal role, if any, of adiposity distribution and atopy on "obese asthma" in childhood.

UI  - 24283840
TI  - Is faster safer? Cluster versus short conventional subcutaneous allergen immunotherapy.
AB  - The safety profile of the cluster regimen supports the use of accelerated SCIT schedules with IR-standardized allergen extracts compared with short conventional schedules, particularly if similar extracts and application methods are used.

UI  - 24283801
TI  - Clinical and epidemiologic phenotypes of childhood asthma.
AB  - Clinical phenotypes were well supported by LCA analysis. The hypothesis-free LCA phenotypes were a useful reference for comparing clinical phenotypes. Thereby, we identified children with clinically conspicuous but undiagnosed disease. Because of their high area under the curve values, clinical phenotypes such as (recurrent) unremitting wheeze emerged as promising alternative asthma definitions for epidemiologic studies.

UI  - 24276839
TI  - Community household income and resource utilization for common inpatient pediatric conditions.
AB  - Lower community-level HHI is associated with higher inpatient costs of care for 4 of 5 common pediatric conditions. These findings highlight the need to consider socioeconomic status in health care system design, delivery, and reimbursement calculations.

UI  - 24267370
TI  - Rethinking the prevalence of exercise-induced bronchoconstriction in patients with asthma.
AB  - 

UI  - 24266961
TI  - Perseverant, non-indicated treatment of obese patients for obstructive lung disease.
AB  - A substantial proportion of patients with obesity referred for pulmonary function testing did not have obstructive lung disease, but were treated nonetheless, before and after spirometry demonstrating absence of airway obstruction.

UI  - 24261522
TI  - A randomized controlled trial of a public health nurse-delivered asthma program to elementary schools.
AB  - Implementation of a multifaceted school-based asthma program can lead to asthma-friendly schools that support children with asthma to be successful managers of their asthma and experience improved quality of life and decreased disease associated burden.

UI  - 24253831
TI  - Once-daily fluticasone furoate (FF)/vilanterol reduces risk of severe exacerbations in asthma versus FF alone.
AB  - NCT01086384.

UI  - 24247849
TI  - A computerized asthma-specific quality of life: a novel tool for reflecting asthma control and predicting exacerbation.
AB  - The cA-QOL is a valid tool for reflecting current asthma control status and for assessment to predict the future risk of asthma exacerbation in adult asthmatics.

UI  - 24245976
TI  - The synergetic effect of ambient PM2.5 exposure and rhinovirus infection in airway dysfunction in asthma: a pilot observational study from the Central Valley of California.
AB  - Increasing ambient PM2.5 and low temperature independently worsened airway function in asthma. The interaction between rhinovirus and PM2.5 significantly impairs airway function in asthma. A larger sample size study is suggested to investigate these observations.

UI  - 24244299
TI  - Socioeconomic and sociodemographic factors associated with asthma related outcomes in early childhood: the Generation R Study.
AB  - This study showed differences between the socioeconomic and sociodemographic correlates of wheezing and asthma compared to the correlates of FeNO and Rint at age 6 years. Several socioeconomic and sociodemographic factors were independently associated with wheezing and asthma. Child's ethnicity was the only factor independently associated with FeNO. We encourage further studies on underlying pathways and public health intervention programs, focusing on reducing socioeconomic or sociodemographic inequalities in asthma.

UI  - 24238863
TI  - Rehospitalization for childhood asthma: timing, variation, and opportunities for intervention.
AB  - Significant variation in asthma rehospitalization rates exists across children's hospitals from 7 to 365 days after an index admission. Racial/ethnic and economic disparities emerge at 60 days. By 1 year, rehospitalizations account for 1 in 6 hospitalizations. Assessing asthma rehospitalizations at longer intervals may augment our current understanding of and approach to post-hospitalization care improvement.

UI  - 24229826
TI  - Use of metered-dose inhaler electronic monitoring in a real-world asthma randomized controlled trial.
AB  - The Smartinhaler Tracker is a reliable monitor for measuring MDI use in a real-world setting. Use of extensive monitor and data-checking protocols reduces data loss. In a research or clinical setting, the use of a validated and reliable electronic monitor represents the reference standard for assessing patterns of medication use.

UI  - 24229823
TI  - Budesonide inhalation suspension versus montelukast in children aged 2 to 4 years with mild persistent asthma.
AB  - BIS and montelukast provided acceptable asthma control in children aged 2 to 4 years with mild persistent asthma with no significant difference between treatments in the primary end point; however, several secondary outcomes showed statistically significant differences (and many had numerical differences) in favor of BIS over montelukast.

UI  - 24228710
TI  - Loss of salmeterol bronchoprotection against exercise in relation to ADRB2 Arg16Gly polymorphism and exhaled nitric oxide.
AB  - The LOB that occurs with chronic long-acting 2-agonists use is not affected by ADRB2 Arg16Gly polymorphisms. High FE(NO) was associated with marked LOB. Use of long-acting 2-agonists before achieving a reduction in FeNO may need to be avoided. Clinical trial registered with www.clinicaltrials.gov (NCT 00595361).

UI  - 24224471
TI  - OX40L blockade and allergen-induced airway responses in subjects with mild asthma.
AB  - Pharmacological activity of anti-OX40L MAb was observed by decreases in serum total IgE and airway eosinophils at 16 weeks post-dosing, but there was no effect on allergen-induced airway responses. It is possible that the treatment duration or dose of antibody was insufficient to impact the airway responses.

UI  - 24188204
TI  - Efficacy of procaterol combined with inhaled budesonide for treatment of cough-variant asthma.
AB  - Procaterol combined with budesonide was well tolerated and effective at improving cough symptoms and quality of life in patients with CVA.

UI  - 24188203
TI  - Effects of nebulized high-dose budesonide on moderate-to-severe acute exacerbation of asthma in children: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study.
AB  - On the basis of nebulized short-acting bronchodilators, addition of nebulized high-dose budesonide resulted in clinical improvement in children with moderate-to-severe acute exacerbation of asthma, suggesting that nebulized high-dose ICS can be used as first-line therapy for non-life-threatening acute exacerbation of asthma in children.

UI  - 24220317
TI  - Increased density of intraepithelial mast cells in patients with exercise-induced bronchoconstriction regulated through epithelially derived thymic stromal lymphopoietin and IL-33.
AB  - Mast cell infiltration of the epithelium is a critical determinant of indirect airway hyperresponsiveness, and the airway epithelium might serve as an important regulator of the development and function of this mast cell population.

UI  - 24219842
TI  - The Pediatric Asthma Control and Communication Instrument for the Emergency Department (PACCI-ED) improves physician assessment of asthma morbidity in pediatric emergency department patients.
AB  - The PACCI-ED improves the assessment of asthma control, trajectory, and burden by ED attendings, and may help assessment of asthma medication adherence and prior asthma exacerbations. The PACCI-ED can be used to improve provider assessment of asthma morbidity during pediatric ED visits for asthma exacerbations, and to identify children who may benefit from interventions to reduce asthma morbidity.

UI  - 24204742
TI  - Exhaled nitric oxide fraction as an add-on to ACQ-7 for not well controlled asthma detection.
AB  - The addition of FeNO to ACQ-7 increased the detectability of not well controlled asthma upon adjustment of maintenance therapy. Adding a measure of airway inflammation to usual symptom and spirometry based scores increases the efficacy of current asthma clinical control assessment.

UI  - 24203262
TI  - Effects of intravenous and oral -blockade in persistent asthmatics controlled on inhaled corticosteroids.
AB  - Intravenous esmolol was administered without any adverse effects on pulmonary function in selected, stable, mild-to-moderate asthmatics controlled on inhaled corticosteroids. Tiotropium prevented propranolol induced bronchoconstriction after acute dosing during up-titration to 80 mg with no adverse impact on asthma control.

UI  - 24200404
TI  - Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of brodalumab, a human anti-IL-17 receptor monoclonal antibody, in moderate to severe asthma.
AB  - Inhibition of IL-17 receptor A did not produce a treatment effect in subjects with asthma. The results of the high-reversibility subgroup analysis are of uncertain significance, requiring further study of brodalumab in this asthma subpopulation. Clinical trial registered with www.clinicaltrials.gov (NCT01199289).

UI  - 24188732
TI  - Evaluating the effect of an asthma self-management intervention for rural families.
AB  - The improvement in inhaler skill is an important finding for practitioners as this is a behavior that can be addressed in the clinical setting. The reduction in the treatment group's asthma severity scores may reflect the improvement in medication delivery as their inhaler skill improved. The differential improvement between boys and girls points to the need for testing other formats in asthma education that can address different learning styles. The individualized parent asthma education enabled the intervener to incorporate neighborhood and home environmental information thereby allowing for tailoring of parental instruction.

UI  - 24187867
TI  - Effect of "yang-warming and kidney essence-replenishing" herbal paste on cold-related asthma exacerbation.
AB  - "Yang-warming and kidney essence-replenishing" herbal paste could reduce cold-related asthma exacerbation.

UI  - 24186969
TI  - Neonatal bilirubin levels and childhood asthma in the US Collaborative Perinatal Project, 1959-1965.
AB  - Evidence shows that asthma originates in early life. Studies have found that phototherapy and/or neonatal jaundice may be associated with asthma. We investigated the association between neonatal bilirubin levels and childhood asthma without phototherapy intervention in the Collaborative Perinatal Project, a multicenter prospective cohort study conducted in the United States from 1959 to 1965. A total of 54,795 livebirths were included, and 40,063 children were followed up until 7 years of age or older. Total serum bilirubin (TSB) levels were examined at 48 hours postpartum in newborns with birthweights of 2,250 g or more. Information on asthma and other diseases through age 7 years was summarized and confirmed by a group of pediatricians and child neurologists. Among 28,807 term infants, the overall prevalence of asthma was 5.26%. Risks of asthma increased with both maximum TSB levels and TSB levels at 48 hours postpartum (P for trend < 0.01). Neonatal maximum TSB levels greater than 15 mg/dL were associated with a 61% increase in the risk of childhood asthma (odds ratio = 1.61, 95% confidence interval: 1.04, 2.08) after adjustment for confounders. In this prospective cohort study of infants born at a time when phototherapy was unavailable, neonatal hyperbilirubinemia was associated with an increased risk of childhood asthma.

UI  - 24186700
TI  - Clinical and cost effectiveness of switching asthma patients from fluticasone-salmeterol to extra-fine particle beclometasone-formoterol: a retrospective matched observational study of real-world patients.
AB  - Asthma patients may be switched from FP-SAL to efBDP-FOR at an equivalent or lower ICS dosage with no reduction in clinical effectiveness but a significant reduction in cost.

UI  - 24184147
TI  - Development of cockroach immunotherapy by the Inner-City Asthma Consortium.
AB  - The administration of cockroach allergen by means of SCIT is immunologically more active than SLIT, especially with regard to IgG4 levels and blocking antibody responses. No safety concerns were raised in any age group. These pilot studies suggest that immunotherapy with cockroach allergen is more likely to be effective with SCIT.

UI  - 24169052
TI  - Effects of inhaled corticosteroids on the dual asthmatic response.
AB  - Bronchial asthma patients develop various asthmatic response types to allergen challenge, such as immediate asthmatic response (IAR), late asthmatic response (LAR), or dual asthmatic response (DAR), the latter being a combination of an early phase (IAR) and a late phase (LAR). This study was designed to investigate (1) the features of the DAR thus identifying it as either a genuine two-phase compact clinical entity or a simultaneous appearance of two independent asthmatic response types, IAR and LAR, and (2) the protective effects of inhaled budesonide (BUD) on the DAR. Two protection tests (PTs) with BUD and a placebo (PL), in a single dose of 800 micrograms, were performed on 48 DAR patients, divided into four groups. Each test consisted of two treatments, one given 30 minutes before and the other at 1, 2, 3, or 4 hours after the bronchial challenge with allergen. The study design was randomized, double-blind, double-dummy, placebo-matched, crossover. A single dose of inhaled BUD did not affect the early phase (IAR) when applied 30 minutes before the challenge (p > 0.2), whereas it significantly prevented the late phase (LAR) when administered either 30 minutes before (p < 0.001) or up to 4 hours after the allergen challenge (p < 0.05). The different protective effects of BUD on both of the phases of DAR would suggest that this response does not exist as a compact clinical entity, but it may be a manifestation of two independent simultaneous responses, IAR and LAR, because of different immunologic mechanisms. Inhaled corticosteroids in a single dose administered shortly before or up to 4 hours after the allergen exposure contribute significantly to the prevention of the LAR, whereas they are unable to affect the IAR.

UI  - 24167583
TI  - Central role of cellular senescence in TSLP-induced airway remodeling in asthma.
AB  - TSLP stimulation can induce cellular senescence during airway remodeling in asthma. Inhibiting the signaling pathways of cellular senescence overcomes TSLP-induced airway remodeling.

UI  - 24144222
TI  - MAGNEsium Trial In Children (MAGNETIC): a randomised, placebo-controlled trial and economic evaluation of nebulised magnesium sulphate in acute severe asthma in children.
AB  - The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment programme.

UI  - 24139497
TI  - Childhood asthma clusters and response to therapy in clinical trials.
AB  - In this study, we replicated SARP pediatric asthma clusters by using a separate, large clinical trials network. Early-onset/severe-lung function and early-onset/comorbidity clusters were associated with differential and limited response to therapy, respectively. Further prospective study of therapeutic response by cluster could provide new insights into childhood asthma treatment.

UI  - 24131825
TI  - GLCCI1 rs37973 does not influence treatment response to inhaled corticosteroids in white subjects with asthma.
AB  - 

UI  - 24131304
TI  - The effects of lebrikizumab in patients with mild asthma following whole lung allergen challenge.
AB  - Lebrikizumab reduced the LAR in subjects with mild asthma. Clinical trial number NCT00781443.

UI  - 24128343
TI  - Less small airway dysfunction in asymptomatic bronchial hyperresponsiveness than in asthma.
AB  - Subjects with asymptomatic BHR may experience fewer symptoms in daily life because they have less small airway dysfunction.

UI  - 24128103
TI  - [Retrospective analysis of omalizumab in patients with severe allergic asthma].
AB  - In these patients add-on therapy with omalizumab reduced asthma exacerbations and emergency visits or hospitalizations. Only 55% of patients significantly improved global asthma control and no significant changes in FEV1 were observed.

UI  - 24125149
TI  - Safety of bronchial thermoplasty in patients with severe refractory asthma.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00401986.

UI  - 24124359
TI  - Impact of active and passive smoking as risk factors for asthma and COPD in women presenting to primary care in Syria: first report by the WHO-GARD survey group.
AB  - These findings will be considered for country and region strategy for noncommunicable diseases, to overcome underdiagnosis of CRD in women, fight widespread female cigarette and narghile smoking, and promote behavioral research in this field.

UI  - 24118234
TI  - Deep phenotyping of the unselected COPSAC2010 birth cohort study.
AB  - The COPSAC2010 birth cohort study provides longitudinal clinical follow-up with highly specific end-points, exposure assessments, and biobanking. The cohort has a high adherence rate promising strong data to elucidate the interaction between genomics and the exposome in perinatal life leading to lifestyle-related chronic inflammatory disorders such as asthma.

UI  - 24117970
TI  - Level of asthma control and healthcare utilization in Latin America.
AB  - The purpose of this study was to investigate whether uncontrolled asthma was associated with healthcare outcomes among Latin American patients with asthma. We used data from 2168 patients with asthma who participated in the 2011 Latin America Asthma Insights and Management (AIM) survey. Using Global Initiative for Asthma (GINA) guidelines, patients were categorized as having asthma that was well-controlled, partly controlled, or uncontrolled. Overall, 7% of the patients surveyed had asthma that was classified as well-controlled. Patients whose asthma was not well-controlled were significantly more likely to report use of asthma medications (ORs ranging from 1.6-41) and to have had emergency healthcare visits or hospitalizations for their asthma in the previous year (ORs ranging from 2.1 to 5.9). They also reported decreases in their productivity compared to patients with well-controlled asthma. These associations suggest that emphasis on improving asthma control could have substantial effects on patient productivity and utilization of healthcare resources.

UI  - 24115012
TI  - Predictors of exacerbations of asthma and COPD during one year in primary care.
AB  - The study confirms that previous exacerbations strongly predict future exacerbations in patients with COPD or asthma. Identification and a closer follow-up of patients at risk of such events could promote earlier treatment when necessary and prevent a rapid deterioration of their condition.

UI  - 24114498
TI  - Increased risk of exacerbation and hospitalization in subjects with an overlap phenotype: COPD-asthma.
AB  - The coexisting COPD-asthma phenotype is possibly associated with increased disease severity.

UI  - 24111502
TI  - Randomized controlled trial of fish oil supplementation in pregnancy on childhood allergies.
AB  - Overall, n-3 LCPUFA supplementation during pregnancy did not significantly reduce IgE-associated allergic disease in the first 3 years of life. Further studies should examine whether the nonsignificant reductions in IgE-associated allergies are of clinical and public health significance.

UI  - 24093599
TI  - Statin exposure is associated with decreased asthma-related emergency department visits and oral corticosteroid use.
AB  - Among statin users with asthma, statin exposure was associated with decreased odds of asthma-related emergency department visits and oral corticosteroid dispensings.

UI  - 24092567
TI  - Combination of budesonide/formoterol on demand improves asthma control by reducing exercise-induced bronchoconstriction.
AB  - The combination of budesonide and formoterol on demand improves asthma control by reducing EIB in the same order of magnitude as regular budesonide treatment despite a substantially lower total steroid dose. Both these treatments were superior to terbutaline on demand, which did not alter the bronchial response to exercise. The results question the recommendation of prescribing SABAs as the only treatment for EIB in mild asthma.

UI  - 24088331
TI  - Influence of cardiac dysfunction and systemic inflammation on pulmonary function and airway responsiveness in obese subjects.
AB  - Altered cardiac function, dysglycemia and dyslipidemia do not seem to be significantly associated with AHR in severely obese subjects in contrast to systemic inflammation.

UI  - 24084072
TI  - Predictors of response to tiotropium versus salmeterol in asthmatic adults.
AB  - Although these results require confirmation, predictors of a positive clinical response to tiotropium include a positive response to albuterol and airway obstruction, factors that could help identify appropriate patients for this therapy.

UI  - 24084071
TI  - Predictors of asthma control and lung function responsiveness to step 3 therapy in children with uncontrolled asthma.
AB  - Levels of impulse oscillometry reactance area indicating peripheral airway obstruction and urinary leukotriene E levels indicating cysteinyl leukotriene inflammation can differentiate LABA step-up responses from responses to LTRA or ICS step-up therapy. Further studies with physiologic, genetic, and biological markers related to these phenotypes will be needed to predict individual responses to LABA step-up therapy.

UI  - 24079038
TI  - [Observation on the effects of the treatment of sillicosis merger asthma].
AB  - Salmeterol/Fluticasone Propionate or the combination of Salmeterol/Fluticasone Propionate and Totropiumi can improve lung function and clinical symptoms of patients with Sillicosis merger Asthma. It is also better that the combination of Salmeterol/Fluticasone Propionate and Totropiumi obviously improve clinical symptoms of patients and reduice acute attack times.

UI  - 24077770
TI  - Effects of feedback on the perception of inspiratory resistance in children with persistent asthma: a signal detection approach.
AB  - Feedback training results in improved perception of respiratory sensations in children with asthma, a finding with implications for strategies of asthma self-management.

UI  - 24077095
TI  - Hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis effects of mometasone furoate/formoterol fumarate vs fluticasone propionate/salmeterol administered through metered-dose inhaler.
AB  - MF/F 400 g/10 g or FP/S 460 g/42 g bid through an MDI led to similar reductions from baseline in mean cortisol AUC (22% and 34% lower than placebo, respectively), whereas the effect of MF/F 200 g/10 g was similar to placebo.

UI  - 24074332
TI  - Metrics of salbutamol use as predictors of future adverse outcomes in asthma.
AB  - Electronically recorded frequency of current salbutamol use is a strong predictor of risk of future adverse outcomes in asthma, with average daily use performing the best. These findings provide new information for clinicians considering metrics of salbutamol as predictors of future adverse outcomes in asthma.

UI  - 24068472
TI  - Prenatal origins of bronchiolitis: protective effect of optimised asthma management during pregnancy.
AB  - Optimised management of asthma during pregnancy may reduce recurrent episodes of bronchiolitis in infancy, which could potentially modulate the risk to develop or the severity of emerging childhood asthma.

UI  - 24053709
TI  - Risk factors associated with poor controlled pediatric asthma in a university hospital.
AB  - Risk factors associated with partly controlled/ uncontrolled asthma were moderate/ severe persistent asthma and sinusitis. Using air conditioner seemed to reduce risk of partly controlled/ uncontrolled asthma.

UI  - 24053707
TI  - Recent 5-year trends of asthma severity and allergen sensitization among children in southern Thailand.
AB  - During the years between 2004 and 2009, asthma severity increased with increasing sensitization to HD, HDM and cockroach. Awareness of these changes and further studies are required.

UI  - 24053706
TI  - Two year follow-up of clinical and inflammation parameters in children monosensitized to mites undergoing subcutaneous and sublingual immunotherapy.
AB  - The clinical efficacy of SLIT is more prominent at the end of the second year, although this improvement is observed from the first year of treatment with SCIT in mite-sensitive children.

UI  - 24050312
TI  - A randomized, controlled trial to evaluate the effect of an anti-interleukin-9 monoclonal antibody in adults with uncontrolled asthma.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT00968669.

UI  - 24045118
TI  - Assessment of asthma control: the SERENA study.
AB  - This study highlights the importance in clinical practice of a periodic assessment by a validated asthma control instrument and exacerbations/health care contacts during previous year. Clinicians should be aware that a significant proportion of patients can have uncontrolled asthma, despite regular pharmacological treatment.

UI  - 24043456
TI  - Inhaler competence and patient satisfaction with Easyhaler: results of two real-life multicentre studies in asthma and COPD.
AB  - Investigators found Easyhaler() easy to teach and patients found it easy to use, and their satisfaction with the device was high.

UI  - 24040887
TI  - The level of control of mild asthma in general practice: an observational community-based study.
AB  - More than one of three patients had poor asthma control, despite being considered by their GPs as mild asthmatics and treated with ICS. Asthmatic patients need to be regularly re-evaluated. Treatment is often inadequate and should be targeted to improve control and reduce asthma morbidity (SAM104964).

UI  - 24036246
TI  - Randomised controlled trial of azithromycin in smokers with asthma.
AB  - 

UI  - 24032555
TI  - Possible pathogenic role of T helper type 9 cells and interleukin (IL)-9 in atopic dermatitis.
AB  - T helper type 9 (Th9) cells are a novel identified subset of CD4(+) T helper cells, which could partly contribute to allergic inflammation, while the precise contribution of Th9 cells in atopic dermatitis (AD) remains unknown. We aimed to explore the possible role of Th9 cells in AD pathogenesis. The Th9 cell percentage, transcription factor PU.1 and cytokine interleukin (IL)-9 mRNA levels, as well as IL-9 serum concentration in peripheral circulation, were measured in AD patients, psoriasis patients and healthy controls. The Th9 cell percentage, PU.1 and IL-9 expression levels of AD patients were all increased significantly compared with the other two control groups (P < 001), and correlated positively with SCORing Atopic Dermatitis index, serum immunoglobulin (Ig)E and thymus- and activation-regulated chemokine (TARC) levels (P < 005). In simple AD patients and AD patients complicated by allergic rhinitis or asthma, there were no significant differences in the Th9 cell percentage, PU.1 and IL-9 expression levels between them. At the same time, IL-9 and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) mRNA levels were detected in AD lesions and normal skin samples, which were both distinctly elevated in AD lesions, and there was a positive association between them (P < 001). Keratinocytes were cultured with IL-9 stimulation and the secretion of VEGF was detected. IL-9 can promote the secretion of VEGF by keratinocytes in a time- and dose-dependent manner. In conclusion, the expansion of the Th9 cell subset, up-regulation of the PU.1 transcription factor and increased secretion of the IL-9 cytokine may contribute to the pathogenesis of AD, which may be supported by the increased release of VEGF by keratinocyes after IL-9 stimulation.

UI  - 24032391
TI  - Nasal neurogenic inflammation markers increase after diesel exhaust inhalation in individuals with asthma.
AB  - 

UI  - 24030662
TI  - Effect of terbutaline on hyperpnoea-induced bronchoconstriction and urinary club cell protein 16 in athletes.
AB  - Repeated injury of the airway epithelium caused by hyperpnoea of poorly conditioned air has been proposed as a key factor in the pathogenesis of exercise-induced bronchoconstriction (EIB) in athletes. In animals, the short-acting 2-agonist terbutaline has been shown to reduce dry airflow-induced bronchoconstriction and the associated shedding of airway epithelial cells. Our aim was to test the efficacy of inhaled terbutaline in attenuating hyperpnoea-induced bronchoconstriction and airway epithelial injury in athletes. Twenty-seven athletes with EIB participated in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover study. Athletes completed an 8-min eucapnic voluntary hyperpnoea (EVH) test with dry air on two separate days 15 min after inhaling 0.5 mg terbutaline or a matching placebo. Forced expiratory volume in 1 s (FEV1) and urinary concentration of the club cell (Clara cell) protein 16 (CC16, a marker of airway epithelial perturbation) were measured before and up to 60 min after EVH. The maximum fall in FEV1 of 17  8% (SD) on placebo was reduced to 8  5% following terbutaline (P < 0.001). Terbutaline gave bronchoprotection (i.e., post-EVH FEV1 fall <10%) to 22 (81%) athletes. EVH caused an increase in urinary excretion of CC16 in both conditions (P < 0.001), and terbutaline significantly reduced this rise (pre- to postchallenge CC16 increase 416  495 pg/mol creatinine after placebo vs. 315  523 pg/mol creatinine after terbutaline, P = 0.016). These results suggest that the inhalation of a single therapeutic dose of terbutaline offers significant protection against hyperpnoea-induced bronchoconstriction and attenuates acute airway epithelial perturbation in athletes.

UI  - 24028826
TI  - Long-term outcomes of internet-based self-management support in adults with asthma: randomized controlled trial.
AB  - International Standard Randomized Controlled Trial Number (ISRCTN): 79864465; http://www.controlled-trials.com/ISRCTN79864465 (Archived by WebCite at http://www.webcitation.org/6J4VHhPk4).

UI  - 24028677
TI  - Immunogenicity and safety of omalizumab in pre-filled syringes in patients with allergic (IgE-mediated) asthma.
AB  - Omalizumab in pre-filled syringes was not associated with immunogenicity. This novel formulation, which does not require reconstitution, had a safety profile consistent with the lyophilised formulation. A limitation of this study is that efficacy of omalizumab in the treatment of asthma was not specifically addressed herein. Clinicaltrials.gov identifier: NCT00500539.

UI  - 24028473
TI  - Analysis of comorbidities and therapeutic approach for allergic rhinitis in a pediatric population in Spain.
AB  - Comorbidities are frequent in children with AR, supporting the notion of allergy as a systemic disease. Severity and duration of AR were significantly associated with presence of most of comorbidities. The most common drugs used for AR treatment were oral antihistamines, followed by nasal corticosteroids and a combination of both used on demand.

UI  - 24024497
TI  - The effects of airway microbiome on corticosteroid responsiveness in asthma.
AB  - A subset of subjects with CR asthma demonstrates airway expansion of specific gram-negative bacteria, which trigger TAK1/MAPK activation and induce corticosteroid resistance. TAK1 inhibition restored cellular sensitivity to corticosteroids.

UI  - 24010736
TI  - Addition of a 5-lipoxygenase-activating protein inhibitor to an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) or an ICS/long-acting beta-2-agonist combination in subjects with asthma.
AB  - Clinicaltrials.gov identifiers: NCT01156792 and NCT01248975.

UI  - 23998657
TI  - Bronchial thermoplasty: Long-term safety and effectiveness in patients with severe persistent asthma.
AB  - These data demonstrate the 5-year durability of the benefits of BT with regard to both asthma control (based on maintained reduction in severe exacerbations and ED visits for respiratory symptoms) and safety. BT has become an important addition to our treatment armamentarium and should be considered for patients with severe persistent asthma who remain symptomatic despite taking inhaled corticosteroids and long-acting -agonists.

UI  - 23998235
TI  - Interleukin-2 levels in exhaled breath condensates, asthma severity, and asthma control in nonallergic asthma.
AB  - There was evidence that interleukin (IL)-2 and IL-10 in the airways play roles in regulating the asthmatic inflammatory response. The purpose of this study was to measure the levels of these cytokines in exhaled breath condensates (EBCs) from asthmatic airways and their correlation with a clinical assessment of asthma severity. The levels of IL-2 and IL-10 in EBC, Asthma Control Test (ACT) score, and the forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1) were studied in 28 steroid-free asthmatic patients and 10 healthy volunteers. The results were analyzed according to their allergic status, asthma severity, and body weight. The correlations between IL-2 and IL-10 levels, percent predicted FEV1, ACT score, and body mass index were also determined. Both IL-2 and IL-10 levels in EBC significantly increased in asthmatic patients, especially in patients with moderate-to-severe persistent asthma, compared with those in normal controls. However, the signification correlations between IL-2 levels and ACT (r = -0.684; p = 0.007), as well as with percent predicted FEV1 (r = -0.671; p = 0.009), were established only in patients with nonallergic asthma. The elevation of IL-2 levels in EBC in obese subjects was observed but was probably related to asthma severity. The levels of IL-2 and IL-10 in EBC increase in asthmatic patients but only IL-2 levels significantly correlate with the ACT score and percent predicted FEV1 in nonallergic asthma. Additional studies should be explored to confirm the reliability of ACT score as a predictor of inflammatory response in asthmatic airways. Clinical trial NCT01246414, http://www.clinicaltrials.gov.

UI  - 23993706
TI  - Phenotypic predictors of response to oral glucocorticosteroids in severe asthma.
AB  - Sputum eosinophils and FeNO were the best predictors of favorable response to oral prednisolone in severe asthmatics. A guided approach to glucocorticosteroid treatment should be recommended as it favors better control of the disease and presumably a lower rate of adverse events. The study has been registered at the site: clinicaltrials.gov with number: NCT00555607.

UI  - 23991670
TI  - Efficacy and safety of once-daily GW870086 a novel selective glucocorticoid in mild-moderate asthmatics: a randomised, two-way crossover, controlled clinical trial.
AB  - This total lack of effect suggests that repeat-dose GW8700861mg has suboptimal efficacy in mild to moderate asthma.

UI  - 23987192
TI  - Refractoriness to inhaled mannitol 3 hours after allergen challenge.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT01699594.

UI  - 23981368
TI  - Acupuncture in asthmatic children: a prospective, randomized, controlled clinical trial of efficacy.
AB  - Although the effect was not sustained beyond the treatment period, the study demonstrated that acupuncture had an effect on asthma in preschool children for the duration of the treatment course as assessed by subjective parameters and use of medication.

UI  - 23967631
TI  - [Controlled observation of non-blister acupoint sticking and electroacupuncture for bronchial asthma].
AB  - The acupoint sticking and ginger-separated moxibustion could obviously improve clinical symptoms in patients with bronchial asthma, and reduce skin irritation of medicine to avoid the blister and relive patients' suffer, which has superior effect to electroacupuncture combined with ginger-separated moxibustion.

UI  - 23964558
TI  - Tolerability to etoricoxib in patients with aspirin-exacerbated respiratory disease.
AB  - The highly selective COX-2 inhibitor etoricoxib was tolerated in most but not all patients tested. An oral provocation test is therefore recommended before prescribing etoricoxib for patients with AERD.

UI  - 23958393
TI  - The effect of montelukast on wheal reactions in skin prick tests: a double-blind-placebo-controlled randomized trial.
AB  - Our results showed that montelukast had no effect on measurements of SPT. Thus, we concluded that there is no need to discontinue the treatment in order to perform SPT in patients receiving montelukast, even in those on montelukast treatment for at least 21 days.

UI  - 23949578
TI  - Albuterol administration is commonly associated with increases in serum lactate in patients with asthma treated for acute exacerbation of asthma.
AB  - Plasma albuterol was significantly correlated with serum lactate concentration after adjusting for asthma severity. Hyperlactatemia was not associated with poorer pulmonary function as measured by 3-h FEV 1 % predicted or increased hospitalization or relapse at 1 week.

UI  - 23944945
TI  - Effects of FESS and additional fluticasone propionate nasal drops on psychological well-being in nasal polyposis with asthma.
AB  - GWBS scores (i) increased significantly after administration of FPND, independent of FESS (from lower than normal to normal), (ii) increased after FESS independent of FPND (from lower than normal to normal), and (iii) increased additively after FPND and FESS.

UI  - 23941048
TI  - Mobile health care operations and return on investment in predominantly underserved children with asthma: the breathmobile program.
AB  - Underserved populations have limited access to care. Improved access to effective asthma care potentially improves quality of life and reduces costs associated with emergency department (ED) visits. The purpose of this study is to examine return on investment (ROI) for the Breathmobile Program in terms of improved patient quality-adjusted life years saved and reduced costs attributed to preventable ED visits for 2010, with extrapolation to previous years of operation. It also examines cost-benefit related to reduced morbidity (ED visits, hospitalizations, and school absenteeism) for new patients to the Breathmobile Program during 2008-2009 who engaged in care (3 visits). This is a retrospective analysis of data for 15,986 pediatric patients, covering 88,865 visits, participating in 4 Southern California Breathmobile Programs (November 16, 1995-December 31, 2010). The ROI calculation expressed the cost-benefit ratio as the net benefits (ED costs avoided+relative value of quality-adjusted life years saved) over the per annum program costs ($500,000 per mobile). The ROI across the 4 California programs in 2010 was $6.73 per dollar invested. Annual estimated emergency costs avoided in the 4 regions were $2,541,639. The relative value of quality-adjusted life years saved was $24,381,000. For patients new to the Breathmobile Program during 2008-2009 who engaged in care (3 visits), total annual morbidity costs avoided per patient were $1395. This study suggests that mobile health care is a cost-effective strategy to deliver medical care to underserved populations, consistent with the Triple Aims of Therapy.

UI  - 23940250
TI  - Modelling the effects of low indoor temperatures on the lung function of children with asthma.
AB  - Indoor temperatures have a small, but significant, association with short-term variations in the lung function of children with asthma.

UI  - 23936888
TI  - Facilitators and solutions for practicing optimal guided asthma self-management: the physician perspective.
AB  - Physicians proposed multiple facilitators and solutions to support optimal practice, leading to the development of a novel taxonomy. Key suggestions varied across physician specialties and behaviours sought, emphasizing the need to carefully select the most promising knowledge translation interventions.

UI  - 23936886
TI  - Asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease guideline implementation: lessons learned on recruitment of primary care physicians to a knowledge translation study.
AB  - These practical lessons and discussion seek to inform researchers involved in designing and recruiting for future knowledge translation studies addressing chronic disease management in primary care.

UI  - 23932458
TI  - Validation and psychometric properties of the Asthma Control Questionnaire among children.
AB  - The ACQ is a moderately reliable, valid, and responsive tool with adequate psychometric properties for assessing recent asthma control among children.

UI  - 23927852
TI  - Differences between asthma in young and elderly: results from the COREA study.
AB  - EA and NEA have different compositional patterns underlying their clinical variables. These observations helped in understanding the differences between EA and NEA from the integrated view covering various clinical aspects.

UI  - 23926751
TI  - A telephone coaching intervention to improve asthma self-management behaviors.
AB  - Long recognizing that asthma, one of the most common chronic childhood diseases, is difficult to manage, the National Asthma Education Prevention Program developed clinical practice guidelines to assist health care providers, particularly those in the primary care setting. Yet, maintenance asthma care still fails to meet national standards. Therefore, in an attempt to improve and support asthma self-management behaviors for parents of children 5 to 12 years of age with persistent asthma, a novel nurse telephone coaching intervention was tested in a randomized, controlled trial. A detailed description of the intervention is provided along with parent satisfaction results, an overview of the training used to prepare the nurses, and a discussion of the challenges experienced and lessons learned.

UI  - 23923976
TI  - Asthma control test via text messaging: could it be a tool for evaluating asthma control?
AB  - When the Turkish version of the ACT was administered via either the paper-and-pencil or text messaging test, scores were closely associated with physician assessments of asthma control.

UI  - 23916740
TI  - Stepping down from high dose fluticasone/salmeterol to extrafine BDP/F in asthma is cost-effective.
AB  - It was found that maintaining controlled patients on high dose FP/S is not cost-effective. Extrafine BDP/F 400/24g daily can be considered to be a cost-effective option in the countries analyzed to maintain control of asthmatic patients stepped down from high dose FP/S 1000/100g daily dry powder or suspension formulations.

UI  - 23912290
TI  - Analysis of the flow-volume curve in children and adolescents with allergic rhinitis without asthma.
AB  - Our results showed spirometry alterations in a considerable percentage of children and adolescents with allergic rhinitis without asthma. The blood eosinophil count and the body mass index could be associated with a sub-clinical alteration of pulmonary function.

UI  - 23907810
TI  - Comparison of the bronchodilator and systemic effects of AZD3199, an inhaled ultra-long-acting -adrenoceptor agonist, with formoterol in patients with asthma.
AB  - AZD3199 480 g and 1920 g produced 24-hour bronchodilation. At comparable peak bronchodilator effect, AZD3199 was associated with a lower level of systemic side effects than formoterol. AZD3199 was well tolerated, with no safety concerns identified to preclude further investigation. ClinicalTrials.gov study identifier: NCT00736489.

UI  - 23905781
TI  - Incidence of difficult bag-mask ventilation in children: a prospective observational study.
AB  - This is the first published report of the incidence of unexpected DBMV among healthy pediatric patients.

UI  - 23905525
TI  - Body mass index is a stronger predictor than the metabolic syndrome for future asthma in women. The longitudinal CARDIA study.
AB  - BMI is a stronger predictor of incident asthma among women than the metabolic syndrome. Other obesity-associated factors that are not a part of the metabolic syndrome may play a role in the BMI-asthma association in women.

UI  - 23904191
TI  - Budesonide/formoterol maintenance and reliever therapy versus free-combination therapy for asthma: a real-life study.
AB  - In this real-life setting, SMART-treated patients used less rescue medication despite a lower ICS burden vs conventional asthma management with three different inhalers.

UI  - 23902840
TI  - [Clinical efficacies of inhaled corticosteroids plus theophylline in the treatment of bronchial asthma].
AB  - Compared with ICS plus inhaled long-acting 2-agonists (LABA), ICS plus low-dose theophylline shows similar efficacies in the improvement of lung function and the control of airway inflammation for asthmatics.

UI  - 23902670
TI  - Effectiveness of personalized written asthma action plans in the management of children with partly controlled asthma in Trinidad: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - The results of this study suggest that the provision of personalized WAAPs may play a useful role in the management of children with partly controlled asthma but is no better than standard care. Asthma education is a critical component in the prevention of exacerbations in children with partly controlled asthma.

UI  - 23895200
TI  - Adherence to asthma medication regimens in urban African American adolescents: application of self-determination theory.
AB  - Though several variables representing SDT constructs were correlated with adherence, results demonstrate that family routines may be more relevant for African American adolescents' adherence than other SDT constructs. Thus, helping families to share and better integrate asthma care into daily schedules may be an important intervention strategy to improve medication adherence among high-risk African American adolescents.

UI  - 23893190
TI  - Efficacy of sublingual specific immunotherapy on allergic asthma and rhinitis in children's real life.
AB  - During the treatment, the active group showed sustained reductions in mean asthma and rhinitis symptom scores when compared with controls to confirm the efficacy and safety of sublingual immunotherapy.

UI  - 23890766
TI  - Asthma control measurement using five different questionnaires: a prospective study.
AB  - NCT01350661.

UI  - 23889678
TI  - The additional values of microarray allergen assay in the management of polysensitized patients with respiratory allergy.
AB  - Microarray IgE assay represents an advancement in allergy diagnosis, as a third-level approach in polysensitized subjects, when the traditional diagnosis may be problematic.

UI  - 23889242
TI  - Visual analogue scale in patients treated for allergic rhinitis: an observational prospective study in primary care: asthma and rhinitis.
AB  - The VAS can detect with high sensitivity the variations of symptoms and QoL in patients with AR.

UI  - 23886736
TI  - Effects of medical comorbidity on anxiety treatment outcomes in primary care.
AB  - Effectiveness of the anxiety intervention was not significantly affected by the presence of multiple CMCs; however, patients with migraine displayed less improvement at long-term follow-up. Trial Registration ClinicalTrials.com Identifier: NCT00347269.

UI  - 23886225
TI  - New insight into the assessment of asthma using xenon ventilation computed tomography.
AB  - The results of this study suggest that xenon ventilation CT can be used as a new method to assess ventilation abnormalities in asthma, and these ventilation abnormalities can be used as novel parameters that reflect the status of asthma control and symptom severity.

UI  - 23884875
TI  - Sevoflurane therapy for life-threatening asthma in children.
AB  - Sevoflurane inhalation corrects high levels of Pco2 and provides clinical improvement in mechanically ventilated children with life-threatening asthma who fail to respond to conventional treatment.

UI  - 23883356
TI  - Parent report and electronic medical record agreement on asthma education provided and children's tobacco smoke exposure.
AB  - We found low concordance between the parent's report and the electronic medical record for smoke exposure and asthma education provided. Un- or under-documented smoke exposure and health education have the potential to affect continuity of care for pediatric patients with asthma.

UI  - 23880616
TI  - Stratifying a risk for an increased variation of airway caliber among the clinically stable asthma.
AB  - These results indicate that ACQ, %FEV1 and FENO can stratify the risk for increased variation in airway caliber among patients with stable asthma. This may help identify subjects in whom further monitoring of lung function fluctuations is indicated.

UI  - 23880612
TI  - Predictors for identifying the efficacy of systemic steroids on sustained exhaled nitric oxide elevation in severe asthma.
AB  - Systemic corticosteroids could suppress the residual FENO elevations in more than half of the patients with severe asthma and the reduction in FENO levels was associated with improvements in asthma control and airflow limitation. The FENO levels and blood eosinophil numbers were the predictors of improved residual airway inflammation by systemic steroid therapy in severe asthma.

UI  - 23880611
TI  - Upregulation of CD11b on eosinophils in aspirin induced asthma.
AB  - The measurement of CD11b expression on peripheral-blood eosinophils showed very high sensitivity and specificity of (-95%) in diagnosing AIA. Although this method requires laboratory facilities for flowcytometry, it may be very useful in diagnosis of AIA without side effects. In addition, PGE2 may be involved in regulation of CD11b expression on eosinophils by aspirin administration.

UI  - 23870606
TI  - Fluticasone/Formoterol combination therapy compared with monotherapy in adolescent and adult patients with mild to moderate asthma.
AB  - Fluticasone/formoterol had a good tolerability profile and showed statistically superior efficacy for the two co-primary endpoints compared to fluticasone or formoterol, in adolescents and adults with mild to moderate asthma. ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT00394199.

UI  - 23866823
TI  - Effects of benralizumab on airway eosinophils in asthmatic patients with sputum eosinophilia.
AB  - Single-dose intravenous and multiple-dose subcutaneous benralizumab reduced eosinophil counts in airway mucosa/submucosa and sputum and suppressed eosinophil counts in bone marrow and peripheral blood. The safety profile supports further development. Additional studies are needed to assess the clinical benefit in asthmatic patients.

UI  - 23865726
TI  - Superiority of fluticasone propionate/formoterol fumarate versus fluticasone propionate alone in patients with moderate-to-severe asthma: a randomised controlled trial.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT00649025; EudraCT number: 2007-005653-37.

UI  - 23859415
TI  - Determining factors of patient compliance to treatment in allergic rhinitis.
AB  - Compliance with intake of sublingual immunotherapy and H1-antihistamines is high. However, our findings point out that patients with characteristics such as a comorbid bronchial asthma or mild symptoms have higher odds for noncompliance and require attentive monitoring to reduce healthcare costs and morbidity.

UI  - 23859413
TI  - Factors affecting readmission for acute asthmatic attacks in children.
AB  - A history of ICU admission at the first admission and the level of asthma control (partly controlled and uncontrolled according to Global of Initiative for Asthma guideline) increased the chances of readmission while influenza vaccination reduced the chances of readmission.

UI  - 23857459
TI  - Comparative study of the safety of regadenoson between patients with mild/moderate chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and asthma.
AB  - This study showed a good safety profile in our series of COPD and asthma patients undergoing MPI. Regadenoson was well tolerated by all patients, with dyspnoea, headache and feeling hot showing differences between groups.

UI  - 23856439
TI  - Comorbidities and health status in individuals with and without COPD in five Latin American cities: the PLATINO study.
AB  - In the PLATINO population-based study, COPD individuals had an increased number of comorbidities. Age, female gender and higher BMI were the factors associated with comorbidity in these patients. Comorbid conditions were associated with impaired health status, independently of the COPD status.

UI  - 23849625
TI  - Fluticasone/formoterol dry powder versus budesonide/formoterol in adults and adolescents with uncontrolled or partly controlled asthma.
AB  - ISRCTN60408425).

UI  - 23846316
TI  - Efficacy and safety of fluticasone furoate/vilanterol compared with fluticasone propionate/salmeterol combination in adult and adolescent patients with persistent asthma: a randomized trial.
AB  - The efficacy of once-daily FF/VI was similar to bid FP/SAL in improving lung function in patients with persistent asthma. No safety issues were identified.

UI  - 23843569
TI  - Laser acupuncture in treatment of childhood bronchial asthma.
AB  - low-intensity laser acupuncture can be safe and effective treatment in asthmatic children.

UI  - 23841529
TI  - Cough variant and cough-predominant asthma are major causes of persistent cough: a multicenter study in Japan.
AB  - These findings show that CVA and CPA are the main causes of cough persisting for 3 weeks.

UI  - 23841472
TI  - Effects of omalizumab on eosinophil cationic peptide, 25-hydroxyvitamin-D, IL-1 and sCD200 in cases of Samter's syndrome: 36 months follow-up.
AB  - To our knowledge, this is the first time an association between omalizumab use and Samter's syndrome has been documented. As a conclusion allergic nasal symptoms (sneezing, postnasal drip) and asthma symptoms were decreased in patients, but no change was seen on nasal polyposis development after omalizumab treatment.

UI  - 23837574
TI  - The effect of nebulized salbutamol or isotonic saline on exercise-induced bronchoconstriction in elite skaters following a 1,500-meter race: study protocol for a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - This trial protocol was registered with the Dutch trial registration for clinical trials under number NTR3550.

UI  - 23829679
TI  - Fragrance materials in asthma: a pilot study using a surrogate aerosol product.
AB  - A trend for increased symptoms was noted in moderate asthmatics, suggesting that asthma severity may play a factor in fragrance sensitivity.

UI  - 23829494
TI  - Proof-of-concept evaluation of trough airway hyper-responsiveness following regular racemic or levosalbutamol in genotype-stratified steroid-treated persistent asthmatic patients.
AB  - Asthmatic patients receiving ICSs (inhaled corticosteroids) may take frequent add-on therapy with salbutamol despite on-demand prescription. Frequent salbutamol use can be detrimental in asthma. The isomeric formulation of salbutamol and the B2ADR (2 adrenoceptor) 16 genotype may also influence this phenomenon. We performed a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, triple crossover, proof of concept trial comparing 2weeks of regular therapy with inhaled racemic salbutamol [200g q.i.d. (four times daily)], levosalbutamol (100g q.i.d.) or placebo on trough methacholine PC20 [provocative concentration causing 20% fall in FEV1 (forced expiratory volume in 1s)] 6h post-dose (the primary outcome) in 30 persistent asthmatic patients (15 who were Arg16 homozygous and 15 who were Gly16 homozygous) all receiving ICSs. There was no worsening of AHR (airway hyper-responsiveness) at trough to methacholine after 2weeks regular exposure to either racemic (P=0.53) or levosalbutamol (P=0.84) compared with placebo, nor between genotypes-as dd (doubling dilution) difference in methacholine PC20 from placebo [salbutamol/Arg16=0.36 dd [95% CI (confidence interval), -0.43, 1.15]; salbutamol/Gly16=0.01 dd (95% CI, -0.47, 0.49); levosalbutamol/Arg16=-0.01 dd (95% CI, -0.89, 0.87); and levosalbutamol/Gly16=0.28 dd (95% CI, -0.22, 0.77)]. Both active treatments improved morning PEF (peak expiratory flow) in Gly16 (P=0.04 overall) but not Arg16 (P=0.50 overall) patients, whereas evening PEF improved in both Gly16 (P<0.001 overall) and Arg16 (P=0.006 overall) patients. In conclusion, the regular exposure to either racemic or levosalbutamol for 2weeks added to ICSs did not cause worsening of AHR at trough compared with placebo; with no difference seen between B2ADR 16 genotypes.

UI  - 23824870
TI  - Lipid mediator serum profiles in asthmatics significantly shift following dietary supplementation with omega-3 fatty acids.
AB  - The results indicate that intake of an -3 rich diet alters not only the PUFA ratio, but also the ratio of downstream oxylipins. These data further support that dietary manipulation with -3 PUFAs affects not only PUFA levels, but importantly also the downstream metabolic profile.

UI  - 23818758
TI  - Early achievement and maintenance of stable asthma control using initially higher-dose inhaled corticosteroids as part of combination therapy: an open-label pilot study.
AB  - Patients receiving HD therapy achieved asthma control more rapidly and maintained greater stability than those receiving GD therapy. This represents a novel strategy for gaining disease control in patients with uncontrolled asthma.

UI  - 23815552
TI  - A randomised cross-over trial investigating the ease of use and preference of two dry powder inhalers in patients with asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
AB  - With DK fewer errors were made, more patients preferred DK over EH and patients were more satisfied with DK. This may enable DK to improve treatment outcomes more than EH.

UI  - 23810267
TI  - Effect of a pharmacist intervention on asthma control. A cluster randomised trial.
AB  - The AFasma study focused on the important outcomes of asthma management, and showed that through the designed intervention, community pharmacists can increase controlled asthma patients compared to usual care. Trial registration NCT01085474.

UI  - 23808796
TI  - Asthma control and concordance of opinions between patients and pulmonologists.
AB  - Patient-pulmonologist concordance on perceptions of disease impact is low, particularly in uncontrolled asthma. This poor concordance should be addressed in education programmes, particularly for patients with uncontrolled symptoms.

UI  - 23802814
TI  - Adult-onset asthma becomes the dominant phenotype among women by age 40 years. the longitudinal CARDIA study.
AB  - Using a large national cohort, this study challenges the dictum that most asthma in adults originates in childhood. Studies of the differences between pediatric- and adult-onset asthma may provide greater insight into the phenotypic heterogeneity of asthma.

UI  - 23800333
TI  - Feasibility, acceptability and preliminary effectiveness of patient advocates for improving asthma outcomes in adults.
AB  - The PA intervention was feasible and acceptable and demonstrated potential for improving asthma control and quality of life.

UI  - 23799935
TI  - Transient impact of omalizumab in pollen allergic patients undergoing specific immunotherapy.
AB  - Eighteen weeks' treatment of omalizumab in combination with SIT in patients with SAR and comorbid SAA reduced the symptom load during the treatment period but showed no prolonged effect during treatment with SIT only. A slight increase in lung function (FEV1) in patients formerly treated with the omalizumab/SIT combination therapy should encourage further evaluation of long-term effects of omalizumab.

UI  - 23791063
TI  - [Efficacy and safety of tulobuterol patch versus oral salbutamol sulfate in children with mild or moderate acute attack of bronchial asthma: a comparative study].
AB  - Compared with oral salbutamol sulfate, tulobuterol patch has a better therapeutic efficacy and a higher safety in children with mild or moderate acute asthmatic attack.

UI  - 23793506
TI  - The Asthma Control Test, Japanese version (ACT-J) as a predictor of Global Initiative for Asthma (GINA) guideline-defined asthma control: analysis of a questionnaire-based survey.
AB  - ACT scores of 23 and 22 are useful for identifying patients with controlled and uncontrolled asthma, respectively, as defined by GINA 2006, and the latter is more strongly predictive than the former. The reason for the higher cut-off point of the ACT-J relative to other versions of the ACT is unclear and warrants further investigation.

UI  - 23793504
TI  - Age-specific characteristics of inpatients with severe asthma exacerbation.
AB  - The characteristics of inpatients with severe asthma vary depending on age. We need to establish countermeasures for asthma exacerbation according to the characteristics of patients depending on age.

UI  - 23786930
TI  - Montelukast improves air trapping, not airway remodeling, in patients with moderate-to-severe asthma: a pilot study.
AB  - We have shown, using lung function tests and HRCT image technique, that add-on therapy with montelukast improves distal lung function reflected by air trapping, but not airway wall thickness in moderate-to-severe asthma.

UI  - 23786284
TI  - Diet-induced weight loss in obese children with asthma: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Dietary intervention can induce acute weight loss in obese asthmatic children with subsequent improvements in static lung function and asthma control. Systemic and airway inflammation did not change following weight loss. However, changes in BMI z-score were associated with changes in airway and systemic inflammation and this requires further investigation in a larger RCT. This is the first weight loss RCT conducted in obese asthmatic children. Diet-induced weight loss can achieve significant improvements in clinical outcomes for obese children with asthma.

UI  - 23786283
TI  - Dampness and moulds in relation to respiratory and allergic symptoms in children: results from Phase Two of the International Study of Asthma and Allergies in Childhood (ISAAC Phase Two).
AB  - A consistent association of dampness with respiratory and other symptoms was found in both affluent and non-affluent countries, among both atopic and non-atopic children. HDM exposure and sensitization may contribute, but the link seems to be related principally to non-atopic mechanisms.

UI  - 23786280
TI  - Eosinophil activation and novel mediators in the aspirin-induced nasal response in AERD.
AB  - Eosinophil activation occurred in early and late responses after L-ASA NPT in upper airway mucosa of AERD patients, where ApoA1, 2M and CP as well as CysLT may be involved in eosinophilic inflammation.

UI  - 23786279
TI  - Specialist-based treatment reduces the severity of allergic rhinitis.
AB  - Specialist-based treatment improves AR severity, in addition to nasal symptoms and quality of life. However, no matter the treatment option some AR patients remain severe and need further follow-up.

UI  - 23777849
TI  - Pharmacodynamic modeling of cough responses to capsaicin inhalation calls into question the utility of the C5 end point.
AB  - Nonlinear mixed-effects modeling demonstrates that maximal capsaicin cough responses better discriminate health from disease and predict spontaneous cough frequency and therefore provide important insights into the mechanisms underlying CC.

UI  - 23769863
TI  - Real life clinical study design supporting the effectiveness of extra-fine inhaled beclomethasone/formoterol at the level of small airways of asthmatics.
AB  - Asthmatic subjects who had the most improvement in FVC after transition to I-EF-BDP/F from other combined ICS/LABA preparations also demonstrated a significant decrease in some indicators of airway/systemic inflammation. These results support the notion that I-EF-BDP/F exerts an effect also at the level of the small airways through a reduction of the level of air trapping. Patients in whom inflammation of the small airways plays an important clinical role are the ones to derive most benefit from this small airways tailored treatment. However, improved compliance due to the "promise of a new drug" effect should also be considered as contributing to the treatment results.

UI  - 23768094
TI  - Investigating the effectiveness of the Mediterranean diet in pregnant women for the primary prevention of asthma and allergy in high-risk infants: protocol for a pilot randomised controlled trial.
AB  - The work ultimately aims to contribute to improving health outcomes through seeking to reduce the incidence of asthma and allergic problems. This pilot trial will prove invaluable in informing the subsequent planned large-scale, parallel group, randomised controlled trial.

UI  - 23762884
TI  - A comparison of work-exacerbated asthma cases from clinical and epidemiological settings.
AB  - Findings from both types of studies should be considered when measuring the contribution of work to asthma exacerbations, identifying putative agents, and selecting industries and occupations in which to implement screening and surveillance programs.

UI  - 23750510
TI  - Early-life air pollution and asthma risk in minority children. The GALA II and SAGE II studies.
AB  - Early-life NO exposure is associated with childhood asthma in Latinos and African Americans. These results add to a growing body of evidence that traffic-related pollutants may be causally related to childhood asthma.

UI  - 23743317
TI  - Increased exhaled breath temperature in subjects with uncontrolled asthma.
AB  - We observed a higher temperature on exhaled breath in subjects with uncontrolled asthma than in subjects with controlled asthma and healthy controls. The increase in exhaled breath temperature may be a proxy for a raised airway inflammatory state in asthma patients.

UI  - 23738402
TI  - Effect of health education on compliance in asthma.
AB  - Non-compliance is a major problem in the treatment of any chronic disease. Asthma is one such chronic disease where non-compliance is a major problem. Several factors for non-compliance like cost of the drugs and relief of symptoms on taking medications for a short time are common to all chronic diseases but in asthma, inhalational therapy especially in elderly because of senile changes, economic factors and comorbidities is an added factor. Health education can improve the compliance. So a study was undertaken to observe the causes of non-compliance in asthmatics, to compare these causes in elderly and young asthmatics and to see the effect of health education on non-compliance in asthmatics. One hundred patients of bronchial asthma, group A consisting 50 patients > or = 65 years old and group B 50 patients < 40 years attending tuberculosis and chest diseases hospital, Patiala were studied. Initial compliance and reasons for non-compliance, initial usage of inhalational devices and their techniques of inhalation were studied. Patients were educated on asthma and inhalational techniques.These patients were followed up at 15th day, 1st, 2nd and 3rd months for changes in compliance and lung functions. At the initial stage, non-compliance was observed in 30 patients (60%) amongst elderly and only 15 patients (30%) amongst the young. Cause for non-compliance was cost in 6, memory in 11, both cost and memory in 7 and relief of symptoms in 6 in elderly and 4, 0, 0 and 11 in young respectively. Only 23 patients (40%) amongst the elderly and 33 patients (66%) amongst the young were put on inhalational therapy. There were statistically significant differences between elderly and young with respect to all the above factors. Out of these 23 elderly, only 7 (30.4%) were confident of the technique of inhalation and demonstrated it correctly.The health education resulted in significant improvement in compliance in both the groups, but more so in the young. The compliance for medications improved from a baseline of 40% to 88% amongst elderly and from 70% to 96% amongst young. There was an improvement in the confidence and technique of inhalation from 44% to 86% amongst elderly and from 64% to 98% amongst young at follow-ups. Mean PEFR improved statistically significantly from 75.25% to 81.13% in elderly and 84.38% to 89.74% in young asthmatics. However, during the follow-up at 2nd month, it was realised that 7 patients amongst elderly and 1 amongst young could not be sustained on inhalational medications because of the cost factor, therefore they were put on only oral medications which were supplied free of cost to them and thus at followup at 3rd month, these patients were not on inhalational medications any more.

UI  - 23732638
TI  - The BREATHE study: Breathing REtraining for Asthma--Trial of Home Exercises. a protocol summary of a randomised controlled trial.
AB  - 

UI  - 23732343
TI  - Association between the Asthma Predictive Index and levels of exhaled nitric oxide in infants and toddlers with recurrent wheezing.
AB  - It is difficult to make an early identification of which children with recurrent wheezing will develop asthma in the following years. The Asthma Predictive Index (API) is a questionnaire based on clinical and laboratory parameters used for this end. The measurement of fractional exhaled nitric oxide (FE NO) has been used as a marker of eosinophilic airway infammation in asthma patients. Objective. To determine the association between the Asthma Predictive Index and FE NO levels in children younger than 3 years old with recurrent wheezing. Materials and methods. Observational, cross sectional study. Children younger than 36 months old with 3 or more episodes of bronchial obstruction in the past year who were inhaled corticosteroid-naive or leukotriene receptor antagonist-naive were included. After recording clinical data, FE NO was measured by a chemiluminescence analyzer during tidal breathing (online method). Results. A total of 52 children aged 5-36 months old were included. Patients with a positive API accounted for 60% of the population and had higher levels of FE NO than those with a negative API, with a median (range) of 13.5 ppb (0.7-31) versus 5.6 ppb (0.1-20.8), respectively (p <0.01). A high FE NO (>8 ppb) was observed in 74% of children with a positive API and in 26% of those with a negative API (p <0.01). Conclusions. This study found an association between high levels of exhaled nitric oxide and a positive Asthma Predictive Index in children younger than 3 years old with recurrent wheezing.

UI  - 23731101
TI  - Cost-effectiveness of asthma clinic approach in the management of chronic asthma in Australia.
AB  - A large-scale asthma clinic trial and long-term evaluation of benefits are necessary to obtain stronger evidence on the benefit of asthma clinic approach in Australia.

UI  - 23726041
TI  - Dose-ranging study of lebrikizumab in asthmatic patients not receiving inhaled steroids.
AB  - Blocking IL-13, a single cytokine, in this population of asthmatic patients is insufficient to improve lung function. There is evidence that IL-13 blockade may improve disease control, as measured by prevention of protocol-defined treatment failure in these patients.

UI  - 23725317
TI  - Depressive symptomatology, quality of life and disease control among individuals with well-characterized severe asthma.
AB  - Among individuals with severe asthma, increased symptom burden is positively associated with risk for co-morbid depression. These findings point to a need for regular mood disorder screenings and treatment referrals among this group. Further research is warranted to examine whether treatment of comorbid depression improves treatment adherence and asthma-related quality of life.

UI  - 23721684
TI  - The eXpeRience registry: the 'real-world' effectiveness of omalizumab in allergic asthma.
AB  - Omalizumab has demonstrated therapeutic benefits in controlled clinical trials. Evaluation of outcomes in real-world clinical practice is needed to provide a complete understanding of the benefits of omalizumab treatment. eXpeRience was a 2-year, international, single-arm, open-label, observational registry that evaluated real-world effectiveness, safety and use of omalizumab therapy in 943 patients with uncontrolled persistent allergic asthma. Effectiveness variables (physician's Global Evaluation of Treatment Effectiveness [GETE], and change from baseline in exacerbation rate, symptoms, rescue medication use, and oral corticosteroid [OCS] use) were evaluated at pre-specified time-points. Safety data were also recorded. By physician's GETE, 69.9% of patients were responders to omalizumab after 16 (1) weeks. The proportion of patients with no clinically significant exacerbations increased from 6.8% during the 12-month pre-treatment period to 54.1% and 67.3% at Months 12 and 24, respectively. Symptoms and rescue medication use at Month 24 were reduced by >50% from baseline. Maintenance OCS use was lower at Month 24 (14.2%) compared with Month 12 (16.1%) and baseline (28.6%). Overall, omalizumab had an acceptable safety profile. The results from eXpeRience indicate that omalizumab was associated with improvements in outcomes in patients with uncontrolled persistent allergic asthma; these improvements were consistent with the results of clinical trials.

UI  - 23720852
TI  - [Easyhalers in practice for treating patients with asthma].
AB  - A comparative investigation was conducted to study the therapeutic effect of using two powder inhalers (the new-generation device--an easyhaler as well as an aerolyser inhaler) in daily practice for treating patients with moderate asthma. It showed the pharmacological equivalence, efficiency, and safety of applying a combination of the easyhalers budesonide and formoterol, as well as the simplicity and convenience to use the inhalers of this type.

UI  - 23715360
TI  - Comparison of salbutamol and ipratropium bromide versus salbutamol alone in the treatment of acute severe asthma.
AB  - The use of nebulized Ipratropium bromide, quaternary anticholinergic bronchodilators in combination with beta-agonist for the treatment of acute asthma in adults is controversial. In a view of different recommendation the present study is undertaken in Bangladeshi patients. Combination of inhaled Ipratropium bromide and Salbutamol provides greater bronchodilatation than mono therapy with Salbutamol alone in acute severe asthma. Patients of severe asthma (PEFR <50% of predicted) were enrolled into control group (Salbutamol only) and case (Salbutamol + Ipratropium bromide) group. After measurement of peak expiratory flow, patient received 3 doses of 2.5 mg Salbutamol (n=40) only or 3 doses of both 2.5mg Salbutamol and 500mcg Ipratropium bromide at an interval of 20 minutes (n=40) through a jet nebulizer. Peak flow was reassessed 30 & 60 minutes after treatment. Peak flow at baseline was similar in two groups. Then at 30 minutes after nebulization, the meanSD percentage increase in peak flow was greater in combination group (60.0135.01%) than Salbutamol group (44.4725.03%) with difference of 16% (p=0.025). At 60 minutes the percentage increase in peak flow was about 32% greater in combination group than Salbutamol group (94.4433.70% vs. 62.5729.26%, p=0.000) and combination group reached percentage predicted peak flow more than 60% while Sabutamol group did not. Ipratropium Bromide and Salbutamol nebulized combinedly have better bronchodilating effect than Salbultamol alone in acute severe asthma.

UI  - 23715171
TI  - Sensitization profile in differential diagnosis: allergic asthma vs. chronic (nonspecific) cough syndrome.
AB  - The sensitization profile consisting of total IgE, sIgE levels, and SPT clearly distinguishes children with allergic asthma from children with chronic nonspecific cough, but still with overlap. Therefore, diagnosis should always be confirmed by a thorough allergy investigation.

UI  - 23714763
TI  - Using video discharge instructions as an adjunct to standard written instructions improved caregivers' understanding of their child's emergency department visit, plan, and follow-up: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Brief video discharge instructions improved caregiver knowledge both in the ED and 2 to 5 days after discharge compared with written discharge instructions alone. Caregiver satisfaction with video discharge instructions was also greater than with written discharge instructions.

UI  - 23713625
TI  - Evaluation of asthma control and patient's perception of asthma: findings and analysis of a nationwide questionnaire-based survey in China.
AB  - Despite improvements in asthma control and ICS and PFM compliance compared with past literature, the current level of asthma control countrywide continues to fall short of the goals set in the GINA.

UI  - 23702090
TI  - Asthma and COPD in an Italian adult population: role of BMI considering the smoking habit.
AB  - Smoking and body mass index (BMI) are well-documented risk factors that contribute substantially to chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and asthma. However, the relations among smoking, obesity, and COPD or asthma remain to be clarified. We conducted a population-based cross-sectional epidemiologic study to explore the association between BMI and COPD or asthma among non-smokers, smokers and ex-smokers using information obtained from the Health Search database (HSD) owned by the Italian College of General Practitioners (SIMG), which stores information on about 1.5% of the total Italian population served by general practitioners (GPs). Our study confirms the importance of smoking status in patients with COPD, but not in those with asthma. Moreover, it demonstrates that the increase in BMI is frequently associated with the diagnosis of COPD or asthma, suggesting that the probability of suffering from COPD or asthma increases with the increase in body weight regardless of the smoking status. The association between an increase in BMI appears to be greater in women than in men. Our data also show that underweight is significantly associated with COPD, but only in men, while being underweight apparently protects from the possibility of suffering from asthma.

UI  - 23692648
TI  - Multifactorial intervention for children with asthma and overweight (Mikado): study design of a randomised controlled trial.
AB  - Clinicaltrial.gov NCT00998413.

UI  - 23692634
TI  - Best strategies to implement clinical pathways in an emergency department setting: study protocol for a cluster randomized controlled trial.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT01815710.

UI  - 23692328
TI  - Comparison between two maintenance feeding regimens after successful cow's milk oral desensitization.
AB  - After achieving desensitization to cow milk with oral immunotherapy, a maintenance regimen with milk given twice weekly is as effective as the daily maintenance.

UI  - 23688323
TI  - Dupilumab in persistent asthma with elevated eosinophil levels.
AB  - In patients with persistent, moderate-to-severe asthma and elevated eosinophil levels who used inhaled glucocorticoids and LABAs, dupilumab therapy, as compared with placebo, was associated with fewer asthma exacerbations when LABAs and inhaled glucocorticoids were withdrawn, with improved lung function and reduced levels of Th2-associated inflammatory markers. (Funded by Sanofi and Regeneron Pharmaceuticals; ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT01312961.).

UI  - 23686815
TI  - Long-term results of endoscopic sinus surgery-oriented treatment for chronic rhinosinusitis with asthma.
AB  - FESS-oriented multimodality treatment improves CRS with asthma significantly and persistently. Asthma control level improved. Antiasthma medication use and pulmonary function remained stable.

UI  - 23683464
TI  - Diagnostic accuracy of the bronchodilator response in children.
AB  - Our findings highlight the poor sensitivity associated with the commonly used 12% cutoff for BDR. Although our data show that a threshold of less than 8% performs better than 12%, given the variability of this test in children, we conclude that it might be not be appropriate to choose a specific BDR cutoff as a criterion for the diagnosis of asthma.

UI  - 23680284
TI  - Mediterranean diet adherence during pregnancy and risk of wheeze and eczema in the first year of life: INMA (Spain) and RHEA (Greece) mother-child cohort studies.
AB  - Maternal diet during pregnancy might influence the development of childhood allergic disorders. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the impact of Mediterranean diet (MD) adherence during pregnancy on wheeze and eczema in the first year of life in two population-based mother-child cohorts in Spain and Greece. We studied 1771 mother-newborn pairs from the Spanish multi-centre 'INMA' (INfancia y Medio Ambiente) study (Gipuzkoa, Sabadell and Valencia) and 745 pairs from the 'RHEA' study in Crete, Greece. The symptoms of wheeze and eczema were based on the criteria of the International Study of Asthma and Allergies in Childhood. Maternal diet during pregnancy was assessed by FFQ and MD adherence was evaluated through an a priori score. Multivariate log-binomial regression models were used to adjust for several confounders in each cohort and summary estimates were obtained by a meta-analysis. MD adherence was not associated with the risk of wheeze and eczema in any cohort, and similar results were identified in the meta-analysis approach. High meat intake (relative risk (RR) 122, 95% CI 100, 149) and 'processed' meat intake (RR 118, 95% CI 102, 137) during pregnancy were associated with an increased risk of wheeze in the first year of life, while a high intake of dairy products was significantly associated with a decreased risk of infantile wheeze (RR 083, 95% CI 072, 096). The results of the present study show that high meat intake during pregnancy may increase the risk of wheeze in the first year of life, while a high intake of dairy products may decrease it.

UI  - 23677830
TI  - Environmental risk factor assessment: a multilevel analysis of childhood asthma in China.
AB  - The prevalence of childhood asthma varies significantly in the eight Chinese cities. Socioenvironmental factors such as GDP, PM10 and average humidity are strong risk factors controlling individual attributes, suggesting that balance is needed between public health and economic development in China.

UI  - 23676940
TI  - [Therapeutic efficacy of 3-year subcutaneous immunotherapy in asthmatic children allergic to mite].
AB  - Three-year SCIT is effective in asthmatic children allergic to house dust mite and allows reduction in the dosage of ICS.

UI  - 23675448
TI  - The coexistence of asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD): prevalence and risk factors in young, middle-aged and elderly people from the general population.
AB  - Asthma and COPD are common in the general population, and they coexist in a substantial proportion of subjects. The asthma-COPD overlap syndrome represents an important clinical phenotype that deserves more medical attention and further research.

UI  - 23672993
TI  - Long-term follow-up after two years of asthma treatment guided by airway responsiveness in children.
AB  - The beneficial effect on lung function of 2 years treatment guided by AHR was lost after 3-7 years of usual care. This suggests that an AHR-guided treatment strategy may need to be sustained in order to preserve lung function.

UI  - 23672570
TI  - Perception of bronchoconstriction: a complementary disease marker in children with asthma.
AB  - Poorer symptom perception in asthmatic children correlated with hyperresponsiveness, and was associated with lower baseline FEV(1) and less use of rescue bronchodilators. This suggests that the measurement of symptom perception should be taken into account in individual management plans for children with asthma.

UI  - 23664767
TI  - Evaluation of lung function and deposition of aerosolized bronchodilators carried by heliox associated with positive expiratory pressure in stable asthmatics: a randomized clinical trial.
AB  - While administration of medical aerosols with heliox and positive airway pressure are both used clinically to improve aerosol delivery, few studies have differentiated their separate roles in treatment of asthmatics. The aim of this randomized, double blinded study is to differentiate the effect of heliox and oxygen with and without positive expiratory pressure (PEP), on delivery of radiotagged inhaled bronchodilators on pulmonary function and deposition in asthmatics. 32 patients between 18 and 65 years of age diagnosed with stable moderate to severe asthma were randomly assigned into four groups: (1) Heliox + PEP (n = 6), (2) Oxygen + PEP (n = 6), (3) Heliox (n = 11) and (4) Oxygen without PEP (n = 9). Each group received 1 mg of fenoterol and 2 mg of ipratropium bromide combined with 25 mCi (955 Mbq) of Technetium-99m and 0.9% saline to a total dose volume of 3 mL placed in a Venticis II nebulizer attached to a closed, valved mask with PEP of 0 or 10 cm H2O. Both gas type and PEP level were blinded to the investigators. Images were acquired with a single-head scintillation camera with the longitudinal and transverse division of the right lung as regions of interest (ROIs). While all groups responded to bronchodilators, only group 1 showed increase in FEV1%predicted and IC compared to the other groups (p < 0.04). When evaluating the ROI in the vertical gradient we observed higher deposition in the middle and lower third in groups 1 (p = 0.02) and 2 (p = 0.01) compared to group 3. In the horizontal gradient, a higher deposition in the central region in groups 1 (p = 0.03) and 2 (p = 0.02) compared to group 3 and intermediate region of group 2 compared to group 3. We conclude that aerosol deposition was higher in groups with PEP independent of gas used, while bronchodilator response with Heliox + PEP improved FEV1 % and IC compared to administration with Oxygen, Oxygen with PEP and Heliox alone. Trial registration NCT01268462.

UI  - 23660397
TI  - Marine lipid fraction PCSO-524 (lyprinol/omega XL) of the New Zealand green lipped mussel attenuates hyperpnea-induced bronchoconstriction in asthma.
AB  - PCSO-524 (Lyprinol)/Omega XL) may have beneficial effects in HIB and asthma by serving as a pro-resolving agonist and/or inflammatory antagonist.

UI  - 23659814
TI  - Therapeutic conversations intervention in pediatrics: are they of benefit for families of children with asthma?
AB  - This article reports a quasiexperimental family level intervention study to measure effectiveness of a theory-based family therapeutic conversation intervention (FAM-TC) for families of children with asthma on perceived family support and asthma-related quality of life (QOL). Perceived family support increased significantly for mothers in the experimental group. The children of the parents in the experimental group reported significantly lower problems with asthma treatment on the treatment problems subscale of the asthma QOL scale after the intervention. These results highlight the benefit of therapeutic conversations for families of children and adolescent with asthma to support or enhance QOL.

UI  - 23659812
TI  - Pediatric obesity and asthma quality of life.
AB  - Widely researched as separate entities, our understanding of the comorbid effects of childhood obesity and asthma on quality of life is limited. This article discusses the effects of childhood obesity and asthma on self-reported quality of life in low-income African American teens with asthma. When controlling for the influence of symptom frequency, asthma classification, asthma self-efficacy, and asthma self-care levels, body mass index remains a most important factor in determining self-reported quality of life among teens with asthma. Although overweight and obesity did not change the effectiveness of the asthma intervention program, obesity did affect participants quality of life scores.

UI  - 23648395
TI  - DASH for asthma: a pilot study of the DASH diet in not-well-controlled adult asthma.
AB  - This pilot study aims to provide effect size confidence intervals, clinical trial and intervention feasibility data, and procedural materials for a full-scale randomized controlled trial that will determine the efficacy of Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension (DASH) as adjunct therapy to standard care for adults with uncontrolled asthma. The DASH diet encompasses foods (e.g., fresh fruit, vegetables, and nuts) and antioxidant nutrients (e.g., vitamins A, C, E, and zinc) with potential benefits for persons with asthma, but it is unknown whether the whole diet is beneficial. Participants (n = 90) will be randomized to receive usual care alone or combined with a DASH intervention consisting of 8 group and 3 individual sessions during the first 3 months, followed by at least monthly phone consultations for another 3 months. Follow-up assessments will occur at 3 and 6 months. The primary outcome measure is the 7-item Juniper Asthma Control Questionnaire, a validated composite measure of daytime and nocturnal symptoms, activity limitations, rescue medication use, and percentage predicted forced expiratory volume in 1 second. We will explore changes in inflammatory markers important to asthma pathophysiology (e.g., fractional exhaled nitric oxide) and their potential to mediate the intervention effect on disease control. We will also conduct pre-specified subgroup analyses by genotype (e.g., polymorphisms on the glutathione S transferase gene) and phenotype (e.g., atopy, obesity). By evaluating a dietary pattern approach to improving asthma control, this study could advance the evidence base for refining clinical guidelines and public health recommendations regarding the role of dietary modifications in asthma management.

UI  - 23644905
TI  - Immunomagnetic molecular probe with UHPLC-MS/MS: a promising way for reliable bronchial asthma diagnostics based on quantification of cysteinyl leukotrienes.
AB  - A sensitive and precise method for simultaneous quantification of cysteinyl leukotrienes (=cys LTs) - leukotriene C4 (=LTC4), leukotriene D4 (=LTD4) and leukotriene E4 (=LTE4) - essential biomarkers of bronchial asthma present in exhaled breath condensate (=EBC) was developed. An immunomagnetic molecular probe was prepared by anchoring cysteinyl leukotrienes antibody on the surface of functionalized monodispersed magnetic particles and used to selectively isolate cys LTs from biological matrices - EBC, plasma and urine. Immobilization and the immunoaffinity capture procedures were optimized to maximize the amount of separated cys LTs, which were detected "off-beads" after acidic elution by UHPLC-ESI-MS/MS operated in a multiple reaction monitoring mode. The developed method was characterized with high precision 13.6% (intra-day precision determined as RSD) and 14.5% (inter-day precision determined as RSD), acceptable accuracy 18.5% (determined as RE), and high recovery of immunoseparation (93.1%) in aforementioned biological matrices. The applicability of the method was demonstrated on EBC, plasma and urine clinical samples of patients with various subtypes of bronchial asthma (occupational, steroid-resistant, moderate with and without corticosteroids therapy) and healthy subjects where reasonable differences in cys LTs concentration levels were found. Combining extremely selective immunomagnetic separation with highly sensitive and precise detection step, the developed method was used to aid diagnosis, predict the most effective therapy, and monitor the response to treatment. The detection of elevated inflammatory mediators (cys LTs) in EBC of subjects with relatively asymptomatic asthma and normal pulmonary function tests could offer a novel way for monitoring the lung inflammation and perhaps initiating treatment in an earlier stage.

UI  - 23643486
TI  - Real-life comparison of beclometasone dipropionate as an extrafine- or larger-particle formulation for asthma.
AB  - These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that delivery of beclometasone in extrafine particle size produces real-life asthma treatment benefits. Clinical trials no. NCT01400217.

UI  - 23638898
TI  - Step-down of budesonide/formoterol in early stages of asthma treatment leads to insufficient anti-inflammatory effect.
AB  - Clinicians should be more careful when stepping down budesonide/formoterol based solely on patients' symptoms and/or pulmonary function.

UI  - 23636616
TI  - Nutritional supplements and plasma antioxidants in childhood asthma.
AB  - These results indicate that nutritional supplements beneficially modulate plasma antioxidants and thus might have a positive influence on systemic redox balance and subsequently, pulmonary inflammation in asthmatic children.

UI  - 23623526
TI  - Association of CYP2C19 polymorphisms and lansoprazole-associated respiratory adverse effects in children.
AB  - Lansoprazole-associated upper respiratory infections and ST in children are related in part to CYP2C19 haplotype. Our data suggest that lansoprazole-associated adverse events in children may be mitigated by adjusting the conventional dose in PMs. Additional studies are required to replicate our findings.

UI  - 23622013
TI  - Efficacy of omalizumab in eosinophilic chronic rhinosinusitis patients with asthma.
AB  - 

UI  - 23617712
TI  - A randomized controlled trial of a self-regulation intervention for older adults with asthma.
AB  - A self-regulation intervention can improve asthma control, quality of life, and healthcare utilization in older adults.

UI  - 23617551
TI  - Fast beneficial systemic anti-inflammatory effects of inhaled budesonide and formoterol on circulating lymphocytes in asthma.
AB  - Combined budesonide and formoterol may reduce airway inflammation and immune reactivity of circulating lymphocytes through its local and systemic effects.

UI  - 23616054
TI  - Effects of a written asthma action plan on caregivers' management of children with asthma: a cross-sectional questionnaire survey.
AB  - The WAAP improved caregivers' understanding of the disease and use of inhaled asthma medications during asthma exacerbations but did not affect their decision regarding acute visits to their physician.

UI  - 23600835
TI  - Early-life hygiene-related factors affect risk of central nervous system demyelination and asthma differentially.
AB  - The increasing prevalence of immune-related diseases, including multiple sclerosis, may be partly explained by reduced microbial burden during childhood. Within a multi-centre case-control study population, we examined: (i) the co-morbid immune diseases profile of adults with a first clinical diagnosis of central nervous system demyelination (FCD) and (ii) sibship structure in relation to an autoimmune (FCD) and an allergic (asthma) disease. FCD cases (n=282) were aged 18-59 years; controls (n=558) were matched on age, sex and region. Measures include: history of doctor-diagnosed asthma; sibling profile (number; dates of birth); and regular childcare attendance. FCD cases did not differ from controls with regard to personal or family history of allergy, but had a greater likelihood of chronic fatigue syndrome [odds ratio (OR)=311; 95% confidence interval (CI) 111, 871]. Having any younger siblings showed reduced odds of FCD (OR=068; 95% CI: 049, 095) but not asthma (OR=147; 95% CI: 091, 238). In contrast, an increasing number of older siblings was associated with reduced risk of asthma (P trend=004) but not FCD (P trend=066). Allergies were not over-represented among people presenting with FCD. Sibship characteristics influence both FCD and asthma risk but the underlying mechanisms differ, possibly due to the timing of the putative 'sibling effect'.

UI  - 23597591
TI  - Characterisation of the overlap COPD-asthma phenotype. Focus on physical activity and health status.
AB  - In this population-based study, 17.4% of the individuals identified with COPD had an overlap COPD-asthma phenotype. This patient subgroup had more dyspnea, wheezing, exacerbations, worse respiratory-specific quality of life, and reduced levels of physical activity. Specific interventions may be required to adequately care for this subgroup of patients.

UI  - 23593932
TI  - Randomized placebo-controlled trial to evaluate chronic dosing effects of propranolol in asthma.
AB  - This is the first placebo-controlled study to assess the effects of chronic nonselective -blockade in asthma, showing no significant effect of propranolol compared with placebo on either methacholine or histamine airway hyperresponsiveness and no change in ACQ or AQLQ. Clinical trial registered with www.clinicaltrials.gov (NCT01074853).

UI  - 23591273
TI  - The association of health literacy with adherence and outcomes in moderate-severe asthma.
AB  - While the relationship between literacy and health is complex, interventions that account for and address the literacy needs of patients may improve asthma outcomes.

UI  - 23591271
TI  - High eosinophil count: a potential biomarker for assessing successful omalizumab treatment effects.
AB  - 

UI  - 23590217
TI  - Three phenotypes of adult-onset asthma.
AB  - Amongst patients with adult-onset asthma, three subphenotypes can be identified with distinct clinical and inflammatory characteristics. These subphenotypes help to understand the underlying pathobiology and provide clinicians with directions for personalized management.

UI  - 23589465
TI  - Hyperpolarized (3) He and (129) Xe MRI: differences in asthma before bronchodilation.
AB  - In asthma, hyperpolarized (129) Xe MRI may help reveal ventilation abnormalities before bronchodilation that are not observed using hyperpolarized (3) He MRI.

UI  - 23586594
TI  - Interactive support interventions for caregivers of asthmatic children.
AB  - The SMIS program for the self-management of asthma in children by their caregivers improved lung function and reduced the number of visits to the emergency departments. Interactive support interventions reinforce learning incentives and encourage self-care and maintenance of therapeutic regimens.

UI  - 23579324
TI  - A proof-of-concept, randomized, controlled trial of omalizumab in patients with severe, difficult-to-control, nonatopic asthma.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov; No.: NCT01007149; URL: www.clinicaltrials.gov and European Clinical Trials Database, EudraCT; No.: 2009-010937-38; URL: https://www.clinicaltrialsregister.eu.

UI  - 23578031
TI  - Inhaled fluticasone furoate/vilanterol does not affect hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis function in adolescent and adult asthma: randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study.
AB  - FF/VI was found to be non-inferior to placebo on HPA axis function, with no indication of significant cortisol suppression after 42 days.

UI  - 23576201
TI  - [Omalizumab therapy in adolescents with severe allergic asthma - results of a post-marketing surveillance].
AB  - Omalizumab can be considered a valuable add-on therapy in adolescent patients with severe allergic asthma that is inadequately controlled despite GINA step 5 treatment. A significant effect on clinical and functional parameters was shown over 12 months.

UI  - 23574000
TI  - Effectiveness of omalizumab in severe allergic asthma: a retrospective UK real-world study.
AB  - This retrospective analysis showed a reduction in exacerbations and improved QoL as per previous studies with OMB. However, the total reduction in annual steroid burden and improved lung function in this severely ill group of patients taking regular or frequent OCS is greater than that seen in previous trials.

UI  - 23566766
TI  - Knowledge of their own allergic sensitizations in asthmatic patients and its impact on the level of asthma control.
AB  - Overall knowledge about the allergic nature of their disease among asthmatic patients attending Spanish Respiratory Medicine Departments is inadequate. Furthermore, a higher degree of knowledge of their allergies does not seem to lead, by itself, to better asthma control. Both findings seem to question the effectiveness of current educational strategies in this field and consequently, they should be revised.

UI  - 23566344
TI  - Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and asthma and the risk of mild cognitive impairment and dementia: a population based CAIDE study.
AB  - In this population-based study, with more than 25 years of follow-up, midlife COPD and asthma were associated with an almost two-fold risk of MCI and dementia later in life. Pulmonary diseases diagnosed later in life seemed to have an inverse relationship with cognitive impairment probably reflecting survival bias.

UI  - 23564399
TI  - Detection of exacerbations in asthma based on electronic diary data: results from the 1-year prospective BIOAIR study.
AB  - Regular electronic monitoring of PEF and asthma symptoms provides an acceptable sensitivity and specificity for the detection of SEs and may be suitable for personal internet-based monitoring of asthma control.

UI  - 23560618
TI  - Exhaled nitric oxide indicates poorly athlete's asthma.
AB  - The results suggest that in contrast to sedentary patients, FENO seems to be a poor predictor of BHR and of clinical asthma in elite athletes. We find it unlikely that FENO could be a useful screening tool in athletes with exercise-induced respiratory symptoms.

UI  - 23558603
TI  - Non-inferiority trial between two dry-powder inhalers containing fluticasone/salmeterol in asthmatic patients.
AB  - Asthma is an increasing pathology with poor compliance. Achievement of control is possible but under intensive treatment. In this setting, fluticasone/salmeterol association delivered by dry powder inhalers is a valuable and proved option. A prospective, parallel, open-label, phase IV, multicentre non-inferiority study was conducted to determine therapeutic similarity between 2 different inhalers: Generic DPI and Diskus, which both deliver a fluticasone/salmeterol association (CAS 80474-14-2/CAS 89365-50-4). A 103 uncontrolled asthmatic patients were randomly assigned in 2 groups, Generic (G) and Diskus (D), and received the association for 18 weeks through the appropriate device. They were evaluated according to Asthma Quality of Life Questionnaire and GINA/NIH guidelines. To demonstrate non-inferiority, the estimation of the Relative Risk between the Global Score Rate per group with its 95% confidence interval was calculated and compared against a non-inferiority margin obtained from a previous study. The Global Score Rate was 82% for G Group and 83% for D Group. The RR was 1.0124 (95% CI: 0.847-1.210). The margin set at 0.832 was not reached by the lower 95% CI (z=-2.097; p=0.018) pointing out non-inferiority. The results have demonstrated non-inferiority between groups. Thus, the 2 products are therapeutically similar.

UI  - 23557023
TI  - Real-life effectiveness of budesonide/formoterol maintenance and reliever therapy in asthma patients across Asia: SMARTASIA study.
AB  - ClinicalTrial.gov: (NCT00939341).

UI  - 23555579
TI  - Sputum IgE and cytokines in asthma: relationship with sputum cellular profile.
AB  - The eosinophilic asthma phenotype was associated with raised sputum IgE and a Th2 cytokine profile. Raised sputum IgE was associated with a heterogeneous cytokine overproduction.

UI  - 23554960
TI  - Bronchodilator responsiveness and reported respiratory symptoms in an adult population.
AB  - Bronchodilator responsiveness in FEV1 or FVC are associated with different respiratory symptoms in the community. Both flow and volume bronchodilator responses are useful parameters which together can be predictive of both wheezing and breathlessness in the general population.

UI  - 23548532
TI  - Effects of 24-week add-on treatment with ciclesonide and montelukast on small airways inflammation in asthma.
AB  - umin.ac.jp/ctr Identifier: UMIN000001083.

UI  - 23548438
TI  - The usefulness of job relocation and serum eosinophil cationic protein in baker's asthma.
AB  - Job relocation was effective in managing baker's asthma. Serum ECP level was a useful follow-up marker of baker's asthma.

UI  - 23546690
TI  - Sex- and age-dependent DNA methylation at the 17q12-q21 locus associated with childhood asthma.
AB  - Chromosomal region 17q12-q21 is one of the best-replicated genome-wide association study (GWAS) hits and associated with childhood-onset asthma. However, the mechanism by which the genetic association is restricted to childhood-onset disease is unclear. During childhood, more boys than girls develop asthma. Therefore, we tested the hypothesis that the 17q12-q21 genetic association was sex-specific. Indeed, a TDT test showed that in the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean familial collection, the 17q12-q21 association was significant among male, but not among female asthmatic subjects. We next hypothesized that the bias in the genetic association resulted from sex-specific and/or age-dependent DNA methylation at regulatory regions and determined the methylation profiles of five 17q12-q21 gene promoters using the bisulfite sequencing methylation assay. We identified a single regulatory region within the zona pellucida binding protein 2 (ZPBP2) gene, which showed statistically significant differences between males and females with respect to DNA methylation. DNA methylation also varied with age and was higher in adult males compared to boys. We have recently identified two functionally important polymorphisms, both within the ZPBP2 gene that influence expression levels of neighboring genes. Combined with the results of the present work, these data converge pointing to the same 5 kb region within the ZPBP2 gene as a critical region for both gene expression regulation and predisposition to asthma. Our data show that sex- and age-dependent DNA methylation may act as a modifier of genetic effects and influence the results of genetic association studies.

UI  - 23541323
TI  - Small-airways deposition of dornase alfa in children with asthma and persistent airway obstruction.
AB  - 

UI  - 23539690
TI  - Improving pediatrician knowledge about environmental triggers of asthma.
AB  - Pediatricians reported a significant improvement in knowledge about ETs of asthma and a willingness to incorporate exposure history questions and remediation recommendations in their routine practice.

UI  - 23537391
TI  - A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of oral montelukast in acute asthma exacerbation.
AB  - 375-Med/ERC-04.

UI  - 23534300
TI  - Early detection of asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease in primary care patients.
AB  - A significant number of patients seen in the general practitioner's office were diagnosed with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or asthma and half of them represent new cases. A substantial proportion of patients referred to a pulmonologist by primary care physicians have been misdiagnosed.

UI  - 23530817
TI  - InternationaL cross-sectIonAl and longItudinal assessment on aSthma cONtrol in European adult patients--the LIAISON study protocol.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov identifier, NCT01567280.

UI  - 23524015
TI  - Stepping-across controlled asthmatic patients to extrafine beclometasone/formoterol combination.
AB  - Patients previously controlled with FP/S in any device formulation can effectively step-across to extrafine BDP/F pMDI, maintaining lung function and asthma control with a 5-min onset of action.

UI  - 23522435
TI  - Occupational exposure to immunologically active agents and risk for lymphoma: the European Epilymph case-control study.
AB  - Further epidemiologic and mechanistic research is needed to confirm that occupational exposure to HMW agents predisposing to asthma can reduce the risk of lymphoma.

UI  - 23520319
TI  - Add-on omalizumab in children with severe allergic asthma: a 1-year real life survey.
AB  - Omalizumab has been shown to reduce exacerbation rates in moderate to severe allergic asthma. Our aim was to evaluate omalizumab efficacy and safety in a real-life setting in severe asthmatic children. 104 children (aged 6-18 years), followed up in paediatric pulmonary tertiary care centres, were included at the beginning of omalizumab treatment. Asthma control levels, exacerbations, inhaled corticosteroid dose, lung function and adverse events were evaluated over 1 year. Children were characterised by allergic sensitisation to three or more allergens (66%), high IgE levels (mean 1125 kU  L(-1)), high rate of exacerbations (4.4 per year) and healthcare use during the previous year, and high inhaled corticosteroid dose (mean 703 g equivalent fluticasone per day). Asthma control levels defined as good, partial or poor, improved from 0%, 18% and 82% at entry to 53%, 30% and 17% at week 20, and to 67%, 25% and 8% at week 52, respectively (p<0.0001). Exacerbation and hospitalisation rates dropped by 72% and 88.5%, respectively. At 12 months, forced expiratory volume in 1 s improved by 4.9% (p=0.023), and inhaled corticosteroid dose decreased by 30% (p<0.001). Six patients stopped omalizumab for related significant adverse events. Omalizumab improved asthma control in children with severe allergic asthma and was generally well tolerated. The observed benefit was greater than that reported in clinical trials.

UI  - 23517791
TI  - Lipid profiles in children with and without asthma: interaction of asthma and obesity on hyperlipidemia.
AB  - Asthma was associated with higher low density lipoprotein cholesterol levels and this association was amplified in overweight and obese subjects. A gender difference was observed in the joint effect of obesity and asthma on hyperlipidemia.

UI  - 23514242
TI  - e-Monitoring of Asthma Therapy to Improve Compliance in children using a real-time medication monitoring system (RTMM): the e-MATIC study protocol.
AB  - Netherlands Trial Register NTR2583.

UI  - 23506422
TI  - Visual analog scale as a predictor of GINA-defined asthma control. The SACRA study in Japan.
AB  - Measurement of VAS levels is able to discriminate between patients with "controlled," "partly controlled," and "uncontrolled" asthma. The VAS score could be a simple guide in clinical situations requiring daily or regular evaluation of asthma control.

UI  - 23493968
TI  - A prospective study of respiratory viral infection in pregnant women with and without asthma.
AB  - Pregnant women with asthma have more common colds during pregnancy than pregnant women without asthma. Colds during pregnancy were associated with adverse maternal and pregnancy outcomes. Prevention of viral infection in pregnancy may improve the health of mothers with asthma.

UI  - 23491407
TI  - Glucocorticoid-induced changes in gene expression of airway smooth muscle in patients with asthma.
AB  - Oral prednisolone changes the transcriptomic profile of the ASM layer in asthma. This indicates that in parallel to antiinflammatory properties, glucocorticoids also exert effects on gene expression of ASM, which is correlated with improved airway function.

UI  - 23490226
TI  - Dose-dependent anti-inflammatory effect of inhaled mometasone furoate/formoterol in subjects with asthma.
AB  - All 3MF/F doses demonstrated pronounced, clinically meaningful, dose-dependent reductions in FeNO, with reduced sputum eosinophil levels for MF/F 200/10g and MF/F 400/10g. These findings suggest both inflammatory markers may be useful in assessing corticosteroid responsiveness in asthma patients, and perhaps identifying the same asthma subphenotype. Clinical Trials.gov: NCT00635882.

UI  - 23489686
TI  - Effectiveness of omalizumab in non-allergic severe asthma.
AB  - Omalizumab is an effective drug for allergic asthma. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effectiveness and tolerance of this drug in non-allergic GINA step V asthma patients. This study was single-centre, prospective, open-label, observational, naturalistic. Non-allergic asthma patients requiring a mean dose of oral prednisolone of at least 5 mg/day during greater than or equal to 1 year or an accumulated oral corticosteroid dose/year greater than or equal to 1500 mg were enrolled. At entry and the end of the 12-month follow-up we measured blood eosinophilia and IgE concentration; at every monthly visit a forced spirometry and exhaled fraction of nitric oxide (NO) were carried out. The subjects were seven adult patients (5 female), age range 37-63 years, with the following mean values: IgE: 226.7+/-176 IU/mL; FVC 74+/-18 percent; FEV1 57+/-11 percent; NO: 21.2+/-7 ppb. The study was approved by the IRB of the hospital. One patient decided to stop treatment after 12 weeks and was excluded from the evaluation. We did not observe changes in eosinophil count, spirometry or NO values. Three patients considered responders did not need prednisolone during the follow-up. The mean daily dose of prednisolone fell from 6.6+/-8.1 mg/day at entry to 1.5+/-2.3 mg/day (p less than 0.16) at the end of follow-up. The mean monthly accumulated dose fell from 92+/-112 to 12+/-26 mg/month (p=0.26). Total blood IgE increased 1.93-fold. Side effects were only local: treatment tolerance was excellent; three out of six patients seemed to slightly benefit from anti-IgE treatment; to date there is no evidence strong enough to systematically prescribe omalizumab in non-allergic asthma patients.

UI  - 23473438
TI  - Optimizing the inhalation flow and technique through metered dose inhalers of asthmatic adults and children attending a community pharmacy.
AB  - Training by VC and a training aid helps patients use a slow IFR with an MDI and improves asthma-related quality of life.

UI  - 23471469
TI  - Exploring the effects of omalizumab in allergic asthma: an analysis of biomarkers in the EXTRA study.
AB  - The difference in exacerbation frequency between omalizumab and placebo was greatest in the three high-biomarker subgroups, probably associated with the greater risk for exacerbations in high subgroups. Additional studies are required to explore the value of these biomarkers in clinical practice. Clinical trial registered with www.clinicaltrials.gov (NCT00314574).

UI  - 23471350
TI  - The influence of sensitisation to pollens and moulds on seasonal variations in asthma attacks.
AB  - No large study has described the seasonal variation in asthma attacks in population-based asthmatics in whom sensitisation to allergen has been measured. 2,637 young adults with asthma living in 15 countries reported the months in which they usually had attacks of asthma and had skin-prick tests performed. Differences in seasonal patterns by sensitisation status were assessed using generalised estimating equations. Most young adults with asthma reported periods of the year when their asthma attacks were more common (range: 47% in Sweden to 86% in Spain). Seasonal variation in asthma was not modified by sensitisation to house dust mite or cat allergens. Asthmatics sensitised to grass, birch and Alternaria allergens had different seasonal patterns to those not sensitised to each allergen, with some geographical variation. In southern Europe, those sensitised to grass allergens were more likely to report attacks occurred in spring or summer than in winter (OR March/April 2.60, 95% CI 1.70-3.97; OR May/June 4.43, 95% CI 2.34-8.39) and smaller later peaks were observed in northern Europe (OR May/June 1.25, 95% CI 0.60-2.64; OR July/August 1.66, 95% CI 0.89-3.10). Asthmatics reporting hay fever but who were not sensitised to grass showed no seasonal variations. Seasonal variations in asthma attacks in young adults are common and are different depending on sensitisation to outdoor, but not indoor, allergens.

UI  - 23460785
TI  - Remote monitoring of inhaled bronchodilator use and weekly feedback about asthma management: an open-group, short-term pilot study of the impact on asthma control.
AB  - Weekly email reports and access to online charts summarizing remote monitoring of inhaled bronchodilator frequency and location were associated with improved asthma control and a decline in day-to-day asthma symptoms.

UI  - 23457522
TI  - Integration of mouse and human genome-wide association data identifies KCNIP4 as an asthma gene.
AB  - Asthma is a common chronic respiratory disease characterized by airway hyperresponsiveness (AHR). The genetics of asthma have been widely studied in mouse and human, and homologous genomic regions have been associated with mouse AHR and human asthma-related phenotypes. Our goal was to identify asthma-related genes by integrating AHR associations in mouse with human genome-wide association study (GWAS) data. We used Efficient Mixed Model Association (EMMA) analysis to conduct a GWAS of baseline AHR measures from males and females of 31 mouse strains. Genes near or containing SNPs with EMMA p-values <0.001 were selected for further study in human GWAS. The results of the previously reported EVE consortium asthma GWAS meta-analysis consisting of 12,958 diverse North American subjects from 9 study centers were used to select a subset of homologous genes with evidence of association with asthma in humans. Following validation attempts in three human asthma GWAS (i.e., Sepracor/LOCCS/LODO/Illumina, GABRIEL, DAG) and two human AHR GWAS (i.e., SHARP, DAG), the Kv channel interacting protein 4 (KCNIP4) gene was identified as nominally associated with both asthma and AHR at a gene- and SNP-level. In EVE, the smallest KCNIP4 association was at rs6833065 (P-value 2.9e-04), while the strongest associations for Sepracor/LOCCS/LODO/Illumina, GABRIEL, DAG were 1.5e-03, 1.0e-03, 3.1e-03 at rs7664617, rs4697177, rs4696975, respectively. At a SNP level, the strongest association across all asthma GWAS was at rs4697177 (P-value 1.1e-04). The smallest P-values for association with AHR were 2.3e-03 at rs11947661 in SHARP and 2.1e-03 at rs402802 in DAG. Functional studies are required to validate the potential involvement of KCNIP4 in modulating asthma susceptibility and/or AHR. Our results suggest that a useful approach to identify genes associated with human asthma is to leverage mouse AHR association data.

UI  - 23454780
TI  - The effect of educating the use of spray by visual concept mapping method on the quality of life of children with asthma.
AB  - One of the most important goals in treating chronic diseases, especially asthma, is the promotion of quality of life (QOL). The present study aimed at identifying the effect of educating method on the QOL of children, who suffered from asthma.In this clinical trial study, 80 children aged 6-12 years with asthma were divided into two groups: control (face-to-face method) and experimental (visual concept mapping method). The QOL of both groups was measured before and after educating by the Juniper's Quality of Life Questionnaire with a one-month interval.The rate of change in the QOL score of the experimental group was 0.3 (0.7) both before and after intervention and 0.1 (0.3) in the control group, which was statistically significant (p<0.05).Educating by the visual concept mapping method with regard to the manner of using sprays is taken into account as an efficient and effective method in improving the QOL of children with asthma.

UI  - 23448616
TI  - Effect of ticagrelor on pulmonary function in healthy elderly volunteers and asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease patients.
AB  - Short-term administration of high doses of ticagrelor did not appear to alter pulmonary function at rest and during exercise in subjects at risk of (healthy elderly) or with respiratory impairment (mild asthma or mild-to-moderate COPD).

UI  - 23442389
TI  - A motivational interviewing intervention to PREvent PAssive Smoke Exposure (PREPASE) in children with a high risk of asthma: design of a randomised controlled trial.
AB  - NTR2632.

UI  - 23440247
TI  - Safety and tolerability of the novel inhaled corticosteroid fluticasone furoate in combination with the 2 agonist vilanterol administered once daily for 52 weeks in patients >=12 years old with asthma: a randomised trial.
AB  - FF/VI (100/25 g or 200/25 g) administered once daily over 52 weeks was well tolerated by patients aged 12 years with asthma. The overall safety profile of FF/VI did not reveal any findings of significant clinical concern. CLINICALTRIALS.GOV: NCT01018186.

UI  - 23437933
TI  - Uptake and effectiveness of a community pharmacy intervention programme to improve asthma management.
AB  - Community pharmacy dispensing records can effectively identify patients with suboptimal asthma management, who can then be referred to their GP for review. Time constraints in busy pharmacies may limit the uptake and effectiveness of face-to-face interventions in the 'real world' setting, making mailed interventions an attractive option.

UI  - 23158515
TI  - Early neutral prebiotic oligosaccharide supplementation reduces the incidence of some allergic manifestations in the first 5 years of life.
AB  - Oligosaccharide prebiotics (scGOS/lcFOS), when started early in life have a protective effect against allergic manifestations in high risk infants. The protection lasts beyond infancy until 5 y of life, for AD and allergic rhinoconjunctivitis. Long-term follow-up studies in larger populations are warranted to evaluate the potential preventive effect of this mixture on asthma.

UI  - 23432894
TI  - Intervention for ineffective airway clearance in asthmatic children: a controlled and randomized clinical trial.
AB  - This study aimed to analyse the effectiveness of an intervention for the nursing diagnosis of ineffective airway clearance in asthmatic children. A blinded, randomized and controlled clinical trial was developed in a paediatric hospital located on northeast of Brazil with 42 asthmatic children aged  36 months. The children were randomly divided into two groups (intervention and control) by means of a simple drawing. The applied intervention included actions related to change of positioning and stimulation of cough. The main findings of this study show that before the intervention, no significant difference was observed in the health status of the children. After the intervention, the indicators of choking (16.83 vs. 26.17, P = 0.007) and adventitious breath sounds (16.4 vs. 26.6, P = 0.005) were higher, on average, in the intervention group. It was observed an improvement in obstructive symptoms in children who received the intervention proposed.

UI  - 23428122
TI  - [Effect of gamma-aminobutyric acid treatment on plasma substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide levels in children with asthma].
AB  - GABA can significantly decrease plasma levels of SP and CGRP in children suffering from acute asthma.

UI  - 23424017
TI  - Behavioural, educational and respiratory outcomes of antenatal betamethasone for term caesarean section (ASTECS trial).
AB  - : Original trial was preregistration, the trial publication is BMJ. 2005 Sep 24;331(7518):662.

UI  - 23419828
TI  - Prevalence and characteristics of three clinical phenotypes of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
AB  - In COPD, emphysematous patients present worse pulmonary function and greater dyspnea, although there were no differences in the use of hospital health care resources. Thegreater comorbidity in Group 2 patients may require specific strategies in this subgroup of patients.

UI  - 23416800
TI  - Comparison of salbutamol with normal saline and salbutamol with magnesium sulphate in the treatment of severe acute asthma.
AB  - This study compared the efficacy and safety of nebulized magnesium sulphate with salbutamol to normal saline with salbutamol as the initial treatment of severe acute asthma patients. The present study was designed as a randomized open controlled clinical trial. The study was conducted Mymensingh Medical College Hospital over a period of 11 months from December 2009 to October 2010. Patients admitted with severe acute asthma having inclusion criteria were the study population. Among 120 study population 60 were in salbutamol with magnesium sulphate group and 60 were in salbutamol with normal saline group. The study finding showed that peak flow at baseline was similar in two groups. At 10 minutes after nebulization, the meanSD percentage increase in peak flow was greater in magnesium sulphate group (204%) than in the normal saline salbutamol group (133%). At 20 minutes the percentage increase in peak flow was greater in magnesium sulphate group (357%) than in the normal saline salbutamol group (246%) p value <0.001. Magnesium sulphate plus salbutamol group reached PEF near to 60% which is not in saline salbutamol group. There was no significant changed in respiratory rate, pulse rate, systolic, diastolic blood pressure and clinical evidence of unwanted adverse effect.

UI  - 23414978
TI  - Stress and quality of life in caregivers of inner-city minority children with poorly controlled asthma.
AB  - Findings underscore the need for multifaceted interventions to provide tools to caregivers of children with asthma to help them cope with asthma management demands and contemporary life stressors.

UI  - 23413910
TI  - Effect of inhaled inactivated Mycobacterium phlei in children with moderate asthma.
AB  - Bacillus Calmette-Gurin and other mycobacterial vaccines are important therapeutic methods in a series of chronic inflammatory disorders characterized by Th1/Th2 imbalance in which Th2 type cells and cytokines often increase. However, few studies have investigated whether it can reduce or prevent the symptoms and attacks in children with asthma. This study evaluated the effect of inactivated Mycobacterium phlei inhaled by an atomizing device placed on asthmatic children. In this randomized, single-center, Seretide-controlled study, children aged 4-12 years with newly diagnosed, moderate, persistent asthma were treated with either inhaled inactivated M. phlei or inhaled Seretide patch. The efficacy of inhaled inactivated M. phlei was related with the alleviation of asthma symptoms, improvement of lung function and reduction of bronchial hyper-responsiveness and total serum IgE, which was similar with Seretide. These findings may have important clinical value in confirming inhaled inactivated M. phlei as a new therapeutic method in moderately asthmatic children.

UI  - 23413101
TI  - Population-based efficacy modeling of omalizumab in patients with severe allergic asthma inadequately controlled with standard therapy.
AB  - Omalizumab, a recombinant humanized monoclonal antibody, is the first approved anti-immunoglobulin E (IgE) agent for the treatment of subjects with moderate to severe persistent allergic asthma that are inadequately controlled by the standard of care. The objective of this study was to quantitatively characterize relationships between serum free IgE and pulmonary function (as measured by forced expiratory volume in 1 s [FEV1]) as well as serum free IgE and airway inflammation (as measured by fractional exhaled nitric oxide [FeNO]) using population-based efficacy models. Data were collected from patients in the EXTRA trial who received omalizumab or placebo 150 to 375 mg subcutaneously every 2 or 4 weeks from week 0 to 48 with constant standard of care as background therapy. None of the covariates evaluated, including demographics, disease status, and baseline pharmacodynamic biomarkers, were significant in explaining the variability in the FEV1 or FeNO response to omalizumab. Results from the efficacy models further confirmed the current omalizumab dosing rationale based on the mean target free IgE level of 25 ng/ml and quantified the variability for the target. In addition, the resulting population models could be used to predict population FEV1 or FeNO response for omalizumab and/or other anti-IgE therapeutics for which PK-IgE models are constructed.

UI  - 23402870
TI  - Vitamin E, -tocopherol, reduces airway neutrophil recruitment after inhaled endotoxin challenge in rats and in healthy volunteers.
AB  - Epidemiologic studies suggest that dietary vitamin E is an important candidate intervention for asthma. Our group has shown that daily consumption of vitamin E (-tocopherol, T) has anti-inflammatory actions in both rodent and human phase I studies. The objective of this study was to test whether T supplementation could mitigate a model of neutrophilic airway inflammation in rats and in healthy human volunteers. F344/N rats were randomized to oral gavage with T versus placebo, followed by intranasal LPS (20g) challenge. Bronchoalveolar lavage fluid and lung histology were used to assess airway neutrophil recruitment. In a phase IIa clinical study, 13 nonasthmatic subjects completed a double-blinded, placebo-controlled crossover study in which they consumed either a T-enriched capsule or a sunflower oil placebo capsule. After 7 days of daily supplementation, they underwent an inhaled LPS challenge. Induced sputum was assessed for neutrophils 6 h after inhaled LPS. The effect of T compared to placebo on airway neutrophils post-LPS was compared using a repeated-measures analysis of variance. In rats, oral T supplementation significantly reduced tissue infiltration (p<0.05) and accumulation of airway neutrophils (p<0.05) that are elicited by intranasal LPS challenge compared to control rats. In human volunteers, T treatment significantly decreased induced sputum neutrophils (p=0.03) compared to placebo. Oral supplementation with T reduced airway neutrophil recruitment in both rat and human models of inhaled LPS challenge. These results suggest that T is a potential therapeutic candidate for prevention or treatment of neutrophilic airway inflammation in diseased populations.

UI  - 23401467
TI  - Induced sputum cell count and cytokine profile in atopic and non-atopic children with asthma.
AB  - As compared to HC, the inflammatory profile in induced sputum of children with asthma showed an increase in proinflammatory cytokines. Concentrations of IL-10, an anti-inflammatory cytokine, were lower in children with AA than in HC.

UI  - 23400614
TI  - Cost-effectiveness of the School-Based Asthma Therapy (SBAT) program.
AB  - The SBAT was effective and cost-effective in reducing symptoms in urban children with asthma compared with other existing programs.

UI  - 23396028
TI  - Evaluation of internet use for health information by parents of asthmatic children attending pediatric clinics in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
AB  - The application of the findings of this study may assist clinicians in the patient-centered shared management of asthmatic children.

UI  - 23394510
TI  - Emergency department treatment of adults with acute asthma exacerbations: effect on exhaled nitric oxide levels.
AB  - Measurement of exhaled nitric oxide levels (eNO) from asthmatic patients is a noninvasive marker of airway inflammation in both adults and children and has been used as an outpatient measure of asthma control. We examined eNO in acute asthma exacerbations and how it is affected by treatment in the emergency department (ED) setting. Both eNO and peak expiratory flow (PEF) rate were measured at arrival and before discharge for adult asthmatic subjects (n = 28) treated for acute exacerbations in the ED at Kings County Hospital Center during spring and fall pollen seasons. Total serum Immunoglobulin E (IgE), peripheral blood leukocyte numbers, and tobacco smoking history were determined. Routine ED treatment included oral prednisone at 60 mg and inhalation of nebulized albuterol and ipratropium. Both PEF (p = 0.0005) and eNO (p < 0.0001) increased after treatment of subjects. Initial eNO was associated with age (p = 0.0004), absolute eosinophil count (p = 0.003), Asthma Control Test (p = 0.004), and Asthma Quality of Life Questionnaire (p = 0.04). Change in pre- versus posttreatment eNO (eNO) was associated with change in PEF (PEF; p < 0.0001). Initial PEF was associated with oxygen saturation (p < 0.0001). PEF was associated with serum IgE levels. ED visit duration was associated with initial PEF (p = 0.0004), eNO (p = 0.004), and number of albuterol treatments (p = 0.001). These associations remained significant in multivariate models that controlled for demographic factors, asthma control, smoking, and measures of inflammation and ventilation. eNO levels increase after ED treatment of acute asthma exacerbations in adults. Improved ventilation may allow for more accurate measurement of NO produced in inflamed airways.

UI  - 23394509
TI  - Early intervention with high-dose inhaled corticosteroids for control of acute asthma exacerbations at home and improved outcomes: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Various studies have examined the efficacy of a temporary increase in the dose of inhaled corticosteroids (ICSs) during acute asthma exacerbations with conflicting results. This study was designed to investigate the efficacy of high-dose ICSs in controlling asthma exacerbations in children. Data were collected on asthmatic children, aged 2-17 years, who were maintained on ICSs. Participants were randomly assigned to a 12-day treatment protocol for acute asthma exacerbation at doses of ICS that were two, four, or eight times their maintenance ICS dose. The primary outcome was the frequency of need to progress to systemic steroid therapy. The secondary outcome was difference in symptom scores among the three treatment groups to determine if one dosing protocol was superior to another. Eighty-two of 197 enrolled patients experienced acute asthma exacerbation and completed the increased dosing protocol. No significant difference in systemic corticosteroid use was detected between patients treated with two, four, or eight times their maintenance dose of ICS, but we observed a trend toward a larger reduction in mean total symptom score with increasing ICS dose at the end of the study. We did not observe a significant difference in need for systemic corticosteroids between doubling the maintenance dose and increasing to four or eight times the dose, but we observed a trend suggesting that higher doses may improve symptoms better than doubling the dose. A more specific design may be needed to provide a more reliable answer to this question.

UI  - 23394461
TI  - Diverging trends of chronic bronchitis and smoking habits between 1998 and 2010.
AB  - Despite the significant reduction in current smoking, CB prevalence did not vary among young Italian adults. The temporal pattern of CB prevalence can only be partly explained by the increase of unemployment/premature retirement, asthma and allergic rhinitis, and suggests that other factors could have played a role.

UI  - 23394141
TI  - The impact of pre- and postnatal exposures on allergy related diseases in childhood: a controlled multicentre intervention study in primary health care.
AB  - Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN28090297.

UI  - 23393909
TI  - House dust mite and storage mite IgE reactivity in allergic patients from Guangzhou, China.
AB  - IgE reactivity against storage mites in Chinese patients is due to both storage mite specific IgE and due to IgE mediated crossreactivity to D. pteronyssinus.

UI  - 23384679
TI  - The novel TLR-9 agonist QbG10 shows clinical efficacy in persistent allergic asthma.
AB  - Treatment with QbG10 may contribute to continued asthma control during steroid reduction in patients on moderate or high-dose inhaled steroids.

UI  - 23380218
TI  - Effect of montelukast for treatment of asthma in cigarette smokers.
AB  - In a population of asthmatic patients actively smoking cigarettes, both 10 mg/d montelukast and 250 g of fluticasone propionate twice daily significantly increased the mean percentage of days with asthma control compared with placebo.

UI  - 23380178
TI  - Management of Asthma in School age Children On Therapy (MASCOT): a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel study of efficacy and safety.
AB  - This project was funded by the NIHR Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol. 17, No. 4. See the HTA programme website for further project information.

UI  - 23379859
TI  - The knowledge, attitudes and practices of parents of children with asthma in 29 cities of China: a multi-center study.
AB  - Generally, the parents' KAP were poor. A gap between recommended and actual practice was observed, which may be related to inadequate knowledge about and poor attitudes toward childhood asthma. Improving knowledge and attitudes may encourage better practices among parents of children with asthma.

UI  - 23379631
TI  - Ozone exposure, vitamin C intake, and genetic susceptibility of asthmatic children in Mexico City: a cohort study.
AB  - Our results provide further evidence that asthmatic children predicted to have compromised antioxidant defense by virtue of genetic susceptibility combined with deficient antioxidant intake may be at increased risk of adverse effects of ozone on pulmonary function.

UI  - 23379542
TI  - Effectiveness of a comprehensive lifestyle modification program for asthma patients: a randomized controlled pilot trial.
AB  - Preliminary findings suggest that adding a CLMP to standard care in patients with bronchial asthma offers greater clinical benefit than standard care alone and also suggest that conducting a large randomized clinical trial is feasible.

UI  - 23374265
TI  - Asthma and lung structure on computed tomography: the Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis Lung Study.
AB  - Asthma with onset in childhood or young adulthood was associated with reduced lung function, narrower airways, and among asthmatic patients who smoked, greater %LAA in later life.

UI  - 23374010
TI  - Associations of postnatal growth with asthma and atopy: the PROBIT Study.
AB  - Current height and weight are more strongly associated with the development of atopic phenotypes in childhood than patterns of infant and early childhood growth, which may well reflect reverse causality (atopy effects on growth) or residual confounding by an unknown common cause of growth and atopy.

UI  - 23368897
TI  - Efficacy and safety profile of fluticasone/formoterol combination therapy compared to its individual components administered concurrently in asthma: a randomised controlled trial.
AB  - Fluticasone/formoterol combination therapy had comparable efficacy to its individual components administered concurrently, when measured by post-dose FEV1 in patients aged  12 years with mild to moderate-severe asthma. The safety and tolerability profile of fluticasone/formoterol combination therapy was similar to that of its individual components administered concurrently. Although this was an open-label study, the results remain compelling: the primary efficacy measure was a physical endpoint and study statisticians were blinded to treatment allocations until analysis was completed.

UI  - 23368420
TI  - Psychosocial variables are related to future exacerbation risk and perinatal outcomes in pregnant women with asthma.
AB  - Women's perceptions of asthma control and their psychosocial state (anxiety) are related to future exacerbation risk, cesarean section, and preterm birth.

UI  - 23364390
TI  - Inhaled corticosteroid dose response using domiciliary exhaled nitric oxide in persistent asthma: the FENOtype trial.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov; No.: NCT00995657; URL: clinicaltrials.gov.

UI  - 23363736
TI  - Mild asthma and chronic bronchitis seem to influence functional exercise capacity: a multi-case control study.
AB  - Even at the level of severity found in the general population, asthma and CB could influence the 6MWD, which seems to reflect the functional exercise level for daily physical activities. The negative association between ageing and the 6MWD was particularly strong in subjects with CB. Our report adds to the mounting evidence that CB is not a trivial condition, especially in the ageing adult population, and it supports the importance of monitoring functional capacity and of physical reconditioning in mild asthma.

UI  - 23363065
TI  - The effect of the endothelin-1 receptor antagonist, bosentan, on patients with poorly controlled asthma: a 17-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled crossover pilot study.
AB  - In this pilot study, 4 weeks of bosentan did not improve FEV1, -agonist use, asthma symptom score, or asthma control test score in patients with poorly controlled asthma when compared with placebo.

UI  - 23356392
TI  - Accuracy of patient self-report as a measure of inhaled asthma medication use.
AB  - Self-report is inaccurate in measuring actual use of inhaled asthma treatment with patients who underuse their maintenance therapy overreporting their use and those who overuse their therapy underreporting their use.

UI  - 23352524
TI  - Asthma medication adherence: the role of God and other health locus of control factors.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT00459368.

UI  - 23350994
TI  - Effects of omalizumab in non-atopic asthma: results from a Spanish multicenter registry.
AB  - Aim. To evaluate the effectiveness of omalizumab in non-atopic asthma. Methods. Using data from a multicenter registry of severe asthma, we evaluated and compared the clinical outcome of 29 omalizumab-treated severe non-atopic asthmatics with 266 omalizumab-treated severe allergic asthmatics. Effectiveness was assessed by considering severe exacerbations, pulmonary function, the Global Evaluation of Treatment Effectiveness (GETE) scale, and Asthma Control Test (ACT). Results. Omalizumab demonstrated significant improvement in the clinical status of non-atopic asthmatics as measured by GETE, which rose from 1.6  1.1 to 2.8  0.9 [corrected] at 4 months (p = .0215) to 2.9  0.9 at 1 year (p = .0093) and to 3.4  0.6 at 2 years (p = .0078), and by the ACT, which increased from 13.3  5.5 [corrected] to 17.5  5.4 at 4 months (p = .0236) to 17.9  4.8 at 1 year (p = .0136) and to 20.6  3.9 at 2 years (p = .0024). Forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1) improved from 61.0  19.4% to 65.1  17.2 at 4 months to 64.1  24.7 at 1 year and to 67.3  23.0% [corrected] at 2 years, but without significant differences between initial and follow-up measurements (p = .52, .91, and .45, respectively) and exacerbations decreased from 3.1  3.5 to 1.9  2.8 at 1 year (p = .1709) to 1.8  4.4 at 2 years (p = .2344). The results were not significantly different from those obtained in atopic asthmatics. Conclusion. Anti-IgE therapy can be effective in non-atopic severe asthma.

UI  - 23341886
TI  - Safety of and cellular response to segmental bronchoprovocation in allergic asthma.
AB  - In mild allergic asthma, segmental allergen bronchoprovocation, using individualized doses of aeroallergens, was safe and yielded similar cellular responses.

UI  - 23333066
TI  - The second generation and asthma: Prevalence of asthma among Israeli born children of Ethiopian origin.
AB  - Asthma prevalence in the second generation of Israeli born children of Ethiopian origin does not seem to differ from other children in their community. This observation supports the theory that environmental exposures, rather than genetic factors, dictated the increase in asthma in this immigrant population.

UI  - 23332463
TI  - Variation in resource utilization across a national sample of pediatric emergency departments.
AB  - We observed variation in quality measures for patients presenting to pediatric EDs with common conditions. Higher costs were not associated with lower hospitalization or ED revisit rates.

UI  - 23331559
TI  - The 5-lipoxygenase-activating protein inhibitor, GSK2190915, attenuates the early and late responses to inhaled allergen in mild asthma.
AB  - GSK2190915 shows potential as a treatment for patients with asthma.

UI  - 23321206
TI  - The risk of asthma exacerbation after stopping low-dose inhaled corticosteroids: a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials.
AB  - Patients with well-controlled asthma who stop regular use of low-dose ICSs have an increased risk of an asthma exacerbation compared with those who continue ICSs.

UI  - 23318282
TI  - Discrimination of prohibited oral use from authorized inhaled treatment of budesonide in sports.
AB  - Taking into consideration the administered doses, the best compromise to discriminate between authorized inhaled administration and forbidden oral intake of BUD was found using a reporting level of 20 ng/mL of metabolite 6-hydroxy-budesonide.

UI  - 23306834
TI  - (M)(2) integrin-mediated adhesion and motility of IL-5-stimulated eosinophils on periostin.
AB  - Periostin is an extracellular matrix protein that is up-regulated by T helper cell type 2 cytokines in the asthmatic airway and implicated in mouse studies as promoting eosinophil recruitment. We asked whether periostin modulates eosinophil adhesion and motility in vitro. Periostin adsorbed to polystyrene supported adhesion of purified human blood eosinophils stimulated by IL-5, IL-3, or granulocyte/macrophage colony-stimulating factor, but did not support adhesion of eosinophils treated with IL-4 or IL-13. The degree of adhesion depended on the concentrations of periostin during coating and activating cytokine during the adhesion assay. Both full-length periostin and alternatively spliced periostin, lacking C-terminal exons 17, 18, 19, and 21, supported adhesion. Adhesion was inhibited by monoclonal antibody to (M) or (2) integrin subunits, but not by antibodies to other eosinophil integrin subunits. Adsorbed periostin also supported (M)(2)-dependent random motility of IL-5-stimulated eosinophils with optimal movement at an intermediate coating concentration. In the presence of IL-5, eosinophils adherent on periostin formed punctate structures positive for filamentous actin, gelsolin, and phosphotyrosine. These structures fit the criteria for podosomes, highly dynamic adhesive contacts that are distinct from classical focal adhesions. The results establish (M)(2) (CD11b/CD18, Mac-1) as an adhesive and promigratory periostin receptor on cytokine-stimulated eosinophils, and suggest that periostin may function as a haptotactic stimulus able to guide eosinophils to areas of high periostin density in the asthmatic airway.

UI  - 22691248
TI  - Airways allergic inflammation and L. reuterii treatment in asthmatic children.
AB  - Recently, it has been hypothesized that the oral administration of specific live probiotic strains may have therapeutic potential in the treatment of allergic inflammation. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of the oral L. reuteri DSM 17938 administration (1X108CFU), in airways allergic inflammation in mild persistent asthmatic children. In this DBPC randomized study we selected 50 children (6-14 years old), affected by mild persistent asthma (GINA step 2) and allergic to HDM. At the run-in period (T-2), the children were submitted to medical examination, prick tests for the main respiratory allergens, spirometry and children asthma control test (C-ACT). We selected only the children with well controlled asthma (C-ACT >19 and FEV1> 80%). After two weeks (T0) the children were allocated into two groups, the FeNO was measured and the breath condensate was collected. Group A children were treated with the placebo (5 drops per day) and Group B children with L. reuteri (108CFU =5 drops per day) for 60 days. After the treatment period (T1), all patients were evaluated by medical examination, C-ACT, spirometry, FeNO measurement and exaled breath condensate analysis. The FeNO values showed a significant reduction (p=0,045) in L. reuteri group but not in the placebo group at the end of the treatment (T1). Furthermore, the cytokines exam showed an increase in IL-10 levels (p less than 0.05) and a significant reduction in IL-2 levels (p less than 0.05) only in L. reuteri group at T1. No significant differences in FEV1 values and C-ACT score were found in both groups. In conclusion, these data showed that L. reuteri (108 CFU) was effective in reducing bronchial inflammation in asthmatic children. No significant effect was found on FEV1 values and C-ACT score, probably because we selected children with well controlled asthma.

UI  - 23299008
TI  - Evaluation of a web-based asthma management intervention program for urban teenagers: reaching the hard to reach.
AB  - Results suggest that a theory-based, tailored approach, with a referral coordinator, can improve asthma management in urban teens. Puff City represents a viable strategy for disseminating an effective intervention to high-risk and hard-to-reach populations.

UI  - 23298524
TI  - Nutrigenetic response to omega-3 fatty acids in obese asthmatics (NOOA): rationale and methods.
AB  - Uncontrolled asthma is a major cause of hospitalizations and emergency room visits. Factors including obesity, African ancestry and childhood are associated with increased asthma severity. Considering the high morbidity caused by asthma, relatively few classes of drugs exist to control this common disease. Therefore, new therapeutic strategies may be needed to reduce asthma's impact on public health. Data suggest that a high fat diet that is deficient in omega-3 fatty acids could promote both obesity and excessive inflammation, resulting in greater asthma severity. Small trials with supplemental omega-3 fatty acids have been conducted with encouraging but inconsistent results. The variability in response seen in past trials may be due to the past subjects' genetics (specifically ALOX5 rs59439148) or their particular asthma phenotypes. Therefore, the "Nutrigenetic response to Omega-3 Fatty acids in Obese Asthmatics (NOOA)" trial is currently underway and was designed as a randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled intervention study to determine if supplemental omega-3 fatty acids improves symptoms among obese adolescents and young adults with uncontrolled asthma. Here we report the design and rationale for the NOOA trial. Participants were given either 3.18 g daily of eicosapentaenoic acid and 822 mg daily docosahexaenoic acid, or matched control soy oil, for 24 weeks. Change in the asthma control questionnaire score was the primary outcome. Secondary outcomes included spirometry, impulse oscillometry, exacerbation rate, airway biomarkers, systemic inflammation, leukotriene biosynthesis and T-lymphocyte function. NOOA may lead to a new therapeutic treatment strategy and greater understanding of the mechanistic role of diet in the pathogenesis of asthma.

UI  - 23294120
TI  - Depressive symptoms, low adherence, and poor asthma outcomes in the elderly.
AB  - In this cohort of elderly inner-city participants, depressive symptoms were associated with poorer asthma control and quality of life, as well as with lower rates of adherence to controller medications. Future work exploring possible mediators, including adherence, might elucidate the relationship between depression and poorer asthma outcomes in this population.

UI  - 23292882
TI  - A randomized controlled trial to evaluate inhibition of T-cell costimulation in allergen-induced airway inflammation.
AB  - Inhibition of CD28-mediated costimulation with abatacept does not seem to alter the inflammatory response to segmental allergen challenge or clinical measures of asthma symptoms in people with mild atopic asthma. Clinical trial registered with ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT 00784459).

UI  - 23291349
TI  - Azithromycin for prevention of exacerbations in severe asthma (AZISAST): a multicentre randomised double-blind placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - Azithromycin did not reduce the rate of severe exacerbations and LRTI in patients with severe asthma. However, the significant reduction in the PEP rate in azithromycin-treated patients with non-eosinophilic severe asthma warrants further study. CLINICALTRIALS.GOV NUMBER: NCT00760838.

UI  - 23290154
TI  - Efficacy of theophylline plus salmeterol/fluticasone propionate combination therapy in patients with asthma.
AB  - The combination of theophylline plus SFC may provide greater protection against asthma exacerbations, and its administration is accompanied by significant improvements in small airway function and airway inflammation.

UI  - 23278879
TI  - Dietary restriction and exercise improve airway inflammation and clinical outcomes in overweight and obese asthma: a randomized trial.
AB  - This study suggests a weight-loss goal of 5-10% be recommended to assist in the clinical management of overweight and obese adults with asthma. The obese-asthma phenotype may involve both innate and allergic inflammatory pathways.

UI  - 23273405
TI  - Efficacy and safety of fluticasone/formoterol combination therapy in patients with moderate-to-severe asthma.
AB  - Fluticasone/formoterol combination therapy will provide clinicians with an efficacious alternative treatment option for patients with moderate-to-severe asthma.

UI  - 23272490
TI  - [Efficacy and safety of sublingual immunotherapy with house dust mite extract in poly allergen sensitized children with allergic rhinitis].
AB  - In polysensitized allergic rhinitis patients, SLIT for D pteronyssinus and/or D farinae produced improvements in both nasal symptoms and rescue medication scores comparable to those in mono sensitized patients. SLIT for D pteronyssinus and/or D farinae should be considered in polysensitized allergic rhinitis patients.

UI  - 24654311
TI  - Tolerability of a new fast updosed immunologically enhanced subcutaneous immunotherapy formulation with an optimized allergen to adjuvant ratio under routine practice conditions: a noninterventional observational study.
AB  - In this open-label, noninterventional study, fast updosed immunologically enhanced SCIT (AVANZ) was well tolerated in a large group of patients.

UI  - 23270495
TI  - Feasibility and effectiveness of an evidence-based asthma service in Australian community pharmacies: a pragmatic cluster randomized trial.
AB  - The pharmacy asthma service delivered clinically important improvements in both a three-visit and four-visit service. Pharmacists were able to recruit and deliver the service with minimal intervention, suggesting it is practical to implement in practice. The three-visit service would be feasible and effective to implement, with a review at 12 months.

UI  - 23266140
TI  - Obesity and asthma: an association modified by age.
AB  - Obesity was associated with a higher prevalence of asthma in young children, but not in adolescents.

UI  - 23265285
TI  - Prospective, open-label assessment of albuterol sulfate hydrofluoroalkane metered-dose inhaler with new integrated dose counter.
AB  - Metered-dose inhalers (MDIs) allow patients who require therapy for various respiratory diseases to deliver these therapies directly to the airways via inhalation. MDIs are designed to contain more propellant than required for administration of the labeled number of actuations; therefore, the amount of active medication/actuation remaining after administration of the labeled number of actuations may result in a lower than therapeutic dose of active medication. An MDI with an integrated dose counter provides the only reliable means by which a patient can track the amount of medication remaining in the MDI. This study evaluated the functionality, reliability, accuracy, and patient satisfaction with albuterol sulfate hydrofluoroalkane (HFA) MDI with a new integrated dose counter in the clinical setting. Patients aged 4 years with asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, or both, participated in this phase 4, prospective, open-label study. Treatment was twice-daily dosing with albuterol HFA MDI at 90 micrograms with dose counter for either 5 or 7 weeks. Concordance/agreement between daily patient recordings of actuations and counter readings was assessed with five discrepancy types: fire not count (undercount; primary end point), count not fire (overcount), fire count up within a dose (counter reading increased, instead of decreased, after MDI was actuated), count unknown fire (counter number at the beginning of a dosing session was less than counter number at the end of the previous session), and count up unknown fire (counter number at the beginning of a dosing session was greater than counter number at the end of the previous session). Responses to twelve questions designed to evaluate confidence, ease of use, and patient satisfaction were also analyzed. Overall discrepancy rate was 1.87 per 200 actuations. Primary end point (fire not count rate) was 0.30 per 200 actuations. Overall, ~95-97% of patients were "very satisfied" or "somewhat satisfied" with the albuterol HFA MDI with dose counter, its ease of use, and the ability to tell when it should be replaced. The albuterol HFA MDI with new integrated dose counter functioned reliably and accurately in the clinical setting. Overall patient satisfaction was high with the albuterol HFA MDI with new integrated dose counter and the device was shown to function reliably and accurately. Clinicaltrials.gov identifier: NCT01302587.

UI  - 23262451
TI  - Inhaled magnesium sulphate in the treatment of bronchial hyperresponsiveness.
AB  - To investigate the effects of inhaled MgSO(4) alone and in association with a (2-)agonist in the treatment of bronchial hyperresponsiveness. Methods. We conducted a placebo-controlled, double-blind clinical trial with seventy six adult patients with bronchial hyperresponsiveness. Subjects were randomized into four groups receiving four inhaled products at the end of methacholine (Mech) challenge: NaCl 0.9%, MgSO(4)alone, (2-)agonist alone, and the combination of MgSO(4)+ (2-)agonist. Repeated measures of the forced expiratory volume at 1s (FEV(1)) were performed at 0, 5, 10, and 20 minutes after the end of the inhalations. In the MgSO(4)and MgSO(4)+ (2-)agonist groups, a blood sample was taken before and after inhalation to determine serum magnesium levels. Results. (1) Inhaled MgSO(4) led to a significant improvement of the FEV(1) from the 15(th) minute after its inhalation. (2) (2-)agonist significantly increased FEV(1) from the 5(th)minute (3) inhaled MgSO(4) + (2-)agonist led to a significantly greater FEV(1) from the 5(th)minute than inhaled MgSO(4)alone or inhaled (2-)agonist alone (p<0.05) (4) There is a correlation between low serum magnesium level and the increase in FEV(1)after inhalation of MgSO(4) + (2-)agonist (p<0.001). Conclusion Inhaled MgSO(4), in combination with (2-)agonist, appears to have benefits in the treatment of bronchial hyperresponsiveness, especially when associated with hypomagnesemia.

UI  - 23259263
TI  - [Observation on effect of acupuncture at Yuji (LU 10) on the pulmonary function of patients with bronchial asthma and immediate efficacy of relieving asthma].
AB  - Acupuncture at Yuji (LU 10) acts on asthma relieving for the acute attack of bronchial asthma. It achieves the immediate effect quickly and the efficacy is the best in 30 min of needle retaining, which is equal to salbutamol aerosol.

UI  - 23257685
TI  - Sputum hyaluronan and versican in severe eosinophilic asthma.
AB  - Sputum hyaluronan values are reduced with mepolizumab therapy and correlate with improved clinical and spirometry values, suggesting this measurement may serve as a noninvasive biomarker of asthma control.

UI  - 23257680
TI  - Effect of nebulized beclomethasone on airway inflammation and clinical status of children with allergic asthma and rhinitis: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study.
AB  - We aimed to evaluate the therapeutic effect of nebulized beclomethasone dipropionate (nBDP) on both allergic asthma and rhinitis. In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study, 40 children (mean age 10.7  2.1 years) with allergic asthma and rhinitis received either nBDP (daily dose of 800 g, administered twice daily) or placebo for 4 weeks (with a face mask), after a 2-week run-in period of clinical assessment. Nasal and oral fractional exhaled nitric oxide (FeNO) measurements together with pulmonary function tests, nasal and oral exhaled breath condensate (EBC) collection for pH and interleukin-5 (IL-5) measurements as well as nasal and bronchial symptom scores were obtained at baseline and after 4-week treatment. A significant improvement in oral FeNO, oral and nasal EBC IL-5 and nasal EBC pH was observed in the nBDP group when comparing the values with baseline, together with an improvement in symptom score of the visual analogue scale, nasal obstruction, sneezing, rhinorrhea, breathing difficulty, cough, wheezing and sleep disturbance (nBDP end treatment vs. baseline, Wilcoxon signed-rank test). nBDP was more effective than placebo (ANCOVA test) in improving [difference  = response after treatment at the last visit (active or placebo) - value at baseline] nasal pH, oral IL-5, oral FeNO, forced expiratory volume in 1 s, forced expiratory volume in 1 s/forced vital capacity, peek expiratory flow, visual analogue scale, breathing difficulty, cough, wheezing and sleep disturbance scores. No differences were observed between the nBDP and the placebo group for symptom score of rhinitis. nBDP is a useful treatment for airway inflammation and clinical status in children with concomitant allergic asthma and rhinitis.

UI  - 23257505
TI  - Recruiting and retaining general practitioners to a primary care asthma-intervention study in Australia.
AB  - The need for more evidence-based interventions in primary care is clear. However, it is challenging to recruit general practitioners (GPs) for interventional research. This paper reports on the evaluation of three methods of recruitment that were sequentially used to recruit GPs for a randomised controlled trial of an asthma communication and education intervention in Australia. The recruitment methods (RMs) were: general practices were contacted by project staff from a Department of General Practice, University of Sydney (RM1); general practices were contacted by staff from an independent research organisation (RM2); and general practices were contacted by a medical peer (chief investigator) (RM3). A GP was defined as 'recruited' once they consented and were randomised to a group, and 'retained' if they provided baseline data and did not notify staff of their intention to withdraw at any time during the 12-month study. RM1 was used for the first 6 months, during which 34 (4%) GPs were recruited and 21 (62%) retained from a total of 953 invitations. RM2 was then used for the next 5 months, during which 32 (6%) GPs were recruited and 26 (81%) were retained. Finally over the next 7 months, RM3 recruited 84 (12%) GPs and retained 75 (89%) GPs. In conclusion, use of a medical peer as the first contact was associated with the highest recruitment and retention rate.

UI  - 23257347
TI  - Inhaled pan-selectin antagonist Bimosiamose attenuates airway inflammation in COPD.
AB  - Selectins, a family of cell adhesion molecules, are involved in leukocyte extravasation to sites of inflammation. We investigated the safety and efficacy of the inhaled pan-selectin antagonist Bimosiamose in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). 77 COPD patients (mean forced expiratory volume in 1s, 57% pred.) were enrolled in a cross-over, double-blind, randomized, Placebo-controlled, multi-center trial. Bimosiamose (10mg) or Placebo was inhaled twice daily via the breath actuated nebulizer Akita2 Apixneb for 28 days on top of standard bronchodilator therapy. Efficacy was assessed by measurement of inflammatory parameters in induced sputum (differential cell count, interleukin-8, matrix-metalloproteinase-9, myeloperoxidase) and lung function at day 28 of both treatment periods. The total adverse event ratio of Bimosiamose compared to Placebo treatment was balanced. Comparedto Placebo, treatment with Bimosiamose led to a decrease of the interleukin-8 concentration (-9.49ng/mL, 95%CI-18.8 to-2.7ng/mL, p=0.008), for the neutrophil count a difference of-0.36810(6)cells/mL (95%CI-1.256 to 0.407  10(6)/mL, p=0.313) was found. The macrophage count decreased by -0.20010(6)cells/mL (95%CI-0.365 to-0.04410(6)cells/mL, p=0.012). Most lung function parameters showed a small numeric increase. Inhalation of Bimosiamose for 28 days was safe and well tolerated in patients with COPD. It led to an attenuation of airway inflammation (EudraCT 2009-017257-35; NCT ID: NCT01108913).

UI  - 23253481
TI  - Multidisciplinary approach to management of maternal asthma (MAMMA [copyright]): the PROTOCOL for a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry (ACTRN12612000681853).

UI  - 23249323
TI  - The effect of two lottery-style incentives on response rates to postal questionnaires in a prospective cohort study in preschool children at high risk of asthma: a randomized trial.
AB  - Our findings do not support the idea that lottery-style incentives lead to more complete response to postal questionnaires in observational cohort studies with repeated data collection and follow-up durations of around 2 years.

UI  - 23248342
TI  - Efficacy of a parent-youth teamwork intervention to promote adherence in pediatric asthma.
AB  - Results suggest support for the efficacy of TI for improving medication adherence as youth acquire more responsibility for their asthma management.

UI  - 23244654
TI  - Atopic dermatitis in a high-risk cohort: natural history, associated allergic outcomes, and risk factors.
AB  - In this cohort of infants at high risk of asthma, early-onset persistent AD, which was highly associated with atopic sensitization, increased the risk of atopic diseases in later childhood and thus appears to be part of the atopic march.

UI  - 23244616
TI  - Factors associated with patient visits to the emergency department for asthma therapy.
AB  - This study demonstrates that many avoidable risk factors lead to uncontrolled asthma and frequent ED visits.

UI  - 23238526
TI  - A prospective, multicenter survey on causes of chronic cough in China.
AB  - CVA, UACS, EB, and AC were common causes of chronic cough in China. Geography, seasonality, age, and sex were not associated with the spectrum of chronic cough.

UI  - 23237616
TI  - Poquito a poquito: how Latino families with children who have asthma make changes in their home.
AB  - Nurses working with Latino families who experience similar barriers can use these findings to guide inquiries about families' successful changes in their home environment and use them as a starting place to work collaboratively with families to reduce their children's asthma exacerbations. This process will allow nurses to use culturally and family tailored interventions to fit their needs and goals.

UI  - 23236769
TI  - [Clinical study on prevention of recurrence of asthma in children by Xiaochuangao acupoint paste: treating winter diseases in summer].
AB  - XAP played a role in preventing the recurrence of asthma in children. Combined with hormone, XAP showed better effects.

UI  - 23226539
TI  - Airway hyperresponsiveness and quality of life in Western red cedar asthmatics removed from exposure.
AB  - In Western red cedar asthmatics removed from exposure, measures of airway responsiveness are associated with HRQL.

UI  - 23221590
TI  - Young people's participation in the development of a self-care intervention--a multi-site formative research study.
AB  - The poor outcomes of young people with chronic health conditions indicate that current services and self-care programmes are not meeting the needs of young people. How young people self-manage their condition impacts on long-term health outcomes, but there is little published evidence that details the development of self-care programmes and their most effective components. This article reports on an innovative formative research study, the purpose of which was to develop a self-care intervention prototype. Participants were 87 young people, aged 12-17, and seven young adult facilitators, aged 18-25, with type 1 diabetes or asthma. Each contributed to talking groups exploring themes that young people wanted to be addressed within a self-care programme. Instead of being focused on 'illness', young people's main concerns were directed toward 'life as an adolescent', while at the same time building sustainable daily routines of self-care. Overall, this article illustrates the process of initiating and implementing a developmental approach focused on young people, while also demonstrating the tailored self-care intervention that the process developed. This approach can be used to involve young people in the design and development of other conditions that rely on self-care interventions.

UI  - 23218454
TI  - Patient knowledge, perceptions, expectations and satisfaction on allergen-specific immunotherapy: a survey.
AB  - In this real life study evaluating different aspects of patient's perspective on SIT, the majority of patients had an adequate level of knowledge, perceptions, expectations and satisfaction about SIT, which corresponded well with the physician's perceptions and satisfaction. Our data warrant the use of patient's perspectives on chronic SIT treatment.

UI  - 23218449
TI  - An asthma management system in a pediatric emergency department.
AB  - Despite a high level of support from the ED leadership and staff, a focused education effort, and implementation of an automated disease detection, the use of the paper-based asthma protocol remained low and time to patient disposition did not change.

UI  - 23217023
TI  - Confirmatory spirometry for adults hospitalized with a diagnosis of asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease exacerbation.
AB  - Adequate quality spirometry can be obtained in most hospitalized adults with a physician diagnosis of asthma or COPD exacerbation. Confirmatory spirometry could be a useful tool to help reduce overdiagnosis of obstructive lung disease, especially among obese patients.

UI  - 23216798
TI  - 1-year prospective real life monitoring of asthma control and quality of life in Italy.
AB  - An improvement in asthma control and QoL can be achieved during a 1-year monitoring in a real life setting. Extrafine beclomethasone/formoterol was associated with significant benefit in terms of asthma control and QoL compared to large-particles combinations.ClinicalTrials.gov number NCT01110460.

UI  - 23216797
TI  - Cotinine versus questionnaire: early-life environmental tobacco smoke exposure and incident asthma.
AB  - Biomarker- and questionnaire-based assessment of ETS in early life lead to similar estimates of ETS-associated risk of recurrent wheeze and asthma.

UI  - 23211647
TI  - Reduced medication use and improved pulmonary function with supplements containing vegetable and fruit concentrate, fish oil and probiotics in asthmatic school children: a randomised controlled trial.
AB  - Dietary pattern changes may be one of the key factors associated with increasing asthma prevalence. Observational studies have found negative associations between fruit, vegetable and fish consumption and risk of asthma. Experimental studies have also shown that probiotics can modulate the immune system. However, each dietary component exhibits a modest effect. The objective of the present study was to investigate the joint effect of multiple beneficial dietary components on asthma. We designed a 16-week school-based double-blind placebo-controlled randomised trial. The supplement group received fruit plus vegetable concentrate, fish oil and probiotics (FVFP supplement), while the control group received placebos. A total of 192 asthmatic children aged 10-12 years were recruited from elementary schools in metropolitan Taipei. Pulmonary function, medication usage, Paediatric Asthma Quality of Life Questionnaire (PAQLQ) score and the Childhood Asthma Control Test score were evaluated at baseline, and at weeks 8 and 16. Compared with the placebo group, the supplement group showed significant improvement in pulmonary function parameters (91 v. 178 ml for forced vital capacity (FVC), 40 v. 107 ml for forced expiratory volume in 1 s (FEV1) and 16 v. 48 % for FEV1:FVC ratio; all P values < 001) and had a significantly reduced proportion of those using short-acting inhaled bronchodilators and inhaled corticosteroids. However, the PAQLQ score and the Childhood Asthma Control Test score were not significantly different between the two groups, possibly because the majority of the children were treated routinely. FVFP supplements reduced medication use and improved pulmonary function in asthmatic children. The present study supports an adjuvant intervention with a combination of fruit, vegetable, fish and probiotic foods.

UI  - 23207491
TI  - Reduction in the leptin concentration as a predictor of improvement in lung function in obese adolescents.
AB  - Interdisciplinary therapy was able to decrease EIB and asthma-related symptoms and to improve pro/anti-inflammatory adipokines. Additionally, the leptin concentration was a predictor factor to explain changes in lung function.

UI  - 23204252
TI  - An association between L-arginine/asymmetric dimethyl arginine balance, obesity, and the age of asthma onset phenotype.
AB  - In late-onset asthma phenotype, plasma ratios of L-arginine to ADMA may explain the inverse relationship of BMI to Fe(NO). In addition, these lower L-arginine/ADMA ratios are associated with reduced lung function and increased respiratory symptom frequency, suggesting a role in the pathobiology of the late-onset phenotype.

UI  - 23199703
TI  - Fractional exhaled nitric oxide in Chinese children with asthma and allergies--a two-city study.
AB  - Fractional exhaled nitric oxide (FeNO) is a non-invasive biomarker of eosinophilic airway inflammation. Our aim was to study associations between FeNO in Chinese children in two cities and asthma, asthmatic symptoms, rhinitis, eczema, and selected childhood and home environmental factors. A random sample of children in Shanghai (n=187) and Taiyuan (n=127), and additional randomly selected children reporting current wheeze (n=115) were invited for FeNO measurements by NIOX MINO. A questionnaire survey was performed among all subjects (12-14y) in 59 classes in Shanghai and 44 in Taiyuan. Associations were studied using multiple linear regression using 10log transformed FeNO data and mutual adjustment. The geometric mean FeNO in the random sample (GMGSD) was higher in Shanghai (16.21.9ppb) as compared to Taiyuan (12.81.6ppb) (P<0.001). In the total material (n=429), Shanghai residency (P=0.001), male gender (P=0.02), parental asthma/allergy (P=0.04), doctors' diagnosed asthma (DDA) (P<0.001) and current wheeze (P<0.001) were associated with higher FeNO levels. In non-wheezers (n=291), Shanghai residency (P=0.007), male gender (P=0.002), DDA (P=0.04), current rhinitis (P=0.004) and reported pollen/furry petallergy (P=0.04) were positively associated with FeNO. In wheezers (n=138), DDA was the only significant factor (P=0.009). In conclusion, male gender, current wheeze, DDA, parental asthma/allergy, current rhinitis, pollen/furry petallergy can be independent determinants of increased FeNO. The lower level of FeNO in Taiyuan is in agreement with previous studies showing lower prevalence of asthma and allergy in Taiyuan as compared to Shanghai.

UI  - 23195335
TI  - Aspirin-intolerant asthma in the Korean population: prevalence and characteristics based on a questionnaire survey.
AB  - Based on histories, the prevalence of aspirin-intolerant asthma is 5.8% among adult asthma patients in Korea. Aspirin-intolerant asthma is associated with lower age, higher prevalence of rhinosinusitis and atopic dermatitis, and more frequent exacerbations.

UI  - 23195334
TI  - Neurotrophin serum concentrations and polymorphisms of neurotrophins and their receptors in children with asthma.
AB  - Our results suggest that, among analysed neurotrophins, NGF serum levels may be influenced by the genotype of NTRK1 gene individually as well as in the interaction with NGF functional genetic variant suggesting their involvement in allergic inflammation in asthma. Serum levels of the other neurotrophins do not seem to be affected by the variants in the analysed genes.

UI  - 23193904
TI  - Topical gel therapy for sinonasal polyposis in Samter's triad: preliminary report.
AB  - Topical gel therapy improves clinical symptoms, endoscopic findings, and sinus membrane histologic features in patients with refractory Samter's triad, but the improvement is transient, suggesting that a longer therapeutic period might be needed.

UI  - 23193002
TI  - Intakes of long-chain omega-3 (n-3) PUFAs and fish in relation to incidence of asthma among American young adults: the CARDIA study.
AB  - This study showed that intakes of LC3PUFAs are inversely longitudinally associated with the incidence of asthma in American young adults.

UI  - 23189924
TI  - Long-term effects of negotiated treatment plans on self-management behaviors and satisfaction with care among women with asthma.
AB  - Women with asthma who had a negotiated treatment plan were more likely to see an asthma specialist. In the long-term, not having a treatment plan that is developed in partnership with a clinician may have an adverse impact on medication use and patient views of clinical services.

UI  - 23184206
TI  - Respiratory rehabilitation: a physiotherapy approach to the control of asthma symptoms and anxiety.
AB  - Breathing retraining improves the clinical control of asthma and anxiety symptoms and the health-related quality of life in asthmatic patients.

UI  - 23183541
TI  - Accelerated up-dosing of subcutaneous immunotherapy with a registered allergoid grass pollen preparation.
AB  - The accelerated SCIT regimen was found to be as safe as the conventional regimen and might be used to up-dose patients within 2 weeks. Moreover, the immunological effects of both up-dosing regimens were comparable.

UI  - 23183377
TI  - Impact of allergic rhinitis symptoms on quality of life in primary care.
AB  - This study confirmed that ocular symptoms and, to a lesser degree, nasal obstruction and pruritus have a significant impact on QoL.

UI  - 23176889
TI  - Fear of repeated injections in children younger than 4 years receiving subcutaneous allergy immunotherapy.
AB  - clinicaltrial.gov identifier NCT01028560.

UI  - 23176887
TI  - Salbutamol tolerance to bronchoprotection: course of onset.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT01338311.

UI  - 23176879
TI  - Sensitivity of impulse oscillometry and spirometry in beta-blocker induced bronchoconstriction and beta-agonist bronchodilatation in asthma.
AB  - IOS is a more sensitive response outcome than spirometry with respect to bronchoconstriction to oral propranolol and bronchodilatation after salbutamol in patients with mild to moderate asthma.

UI  - 23176189
TI  - A valved holding chamber does not decrease the bronchodilator activity of budesonide-formoterol combination metered dose inhaler.
AB  - In well-trained asthmatic subjects, both tested methods caused equivalent bronchodilation. This suggests a VHC itself has no deleterious effect on the bronchodilator activity in the combined drug. These results may not apply to patients who have coordination problems with the pMDI and further study is indicated.

UI  - 23174659
TI  - Safety and efficacy of the prostaglandin D2 receptor antagonist AMG 853 in asthmatic patients.
AB  - AMG 853 as an add-on to inhaled corticosteroid therapy demonstrated no associated risks but was not effective at improving asthma symptoms or lung function in patients with inadequately controlled moderate-to-severe asthma.

UI  - 23174592
TI  - [Effect of house dust mite vaccine on pulmonary function and inhaled corticosteroid doses in children with allergic asthma].
AB  - SCIT combined with ICS can improve the ventilation function of the large airways early after the commencement of treatment, but its effect on small airways can be delayed. SCIT for 2 years shows a good therapeutic effect and can reduce the doses of ICS in children with mild to moderate allergic asthma.

UI  - 23173979
TI  - Improvement in asthma quality of life in patients enrolled in a prospective study to increase lifestyle physical activity.
AB  - With attention to self-management, increased physical activity did not compromise asthma control and was associated with improved asthma.

UI  - 23171672
TI  - Implementation strategies of internet-based asthma self-management support in usual care. Study protocol for the IMPASSE cluster randomized trial.
AB  - the Netherlands National Trial Register NTR2970.

UI  - 23168143
TI  - Aeroallergen sensitization influences quality of life and comorbidities in patients with nasal polyposis.
AB  - Atopic NP patients showed worse QoL, higher incidence of asthma and a less severe form of rhinitis than non-atopic patients.

UI  - 23157561
TI  - Influence of mediterranean diet on asthma symptoms, lung function, and systemic inflammation: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - The trial intervention has successfully altered the dietary behavior among adults with asthma. Small but consistent improvements were seen in quality of life and spirometry among the intervention group. The use of the MD to treat asthma is feasible and warrants evaluation in a larger study, powered to examine clinical endpoints.

UI  - 23157172
TI  - Salt chamber treatment is ineffective in treating eosinophilic inflammation in asthma.
AB  - The reduction in hyper-responsiveness observed in the previous study is probably not due to the effect on eosinophilic inflammation.

UI  - 23152194
TI  - Prevalence of asthma symptoms in schoolchildren, and climate in west European countries: an ecologic study.
AB  - The aim of the present study was to estimate the associations between the prevalence of asthma symptoms in schoolchildren and meteorological variables in west European countries that participated in the International Study of Asthma and Allergies in Children (ISAAC), Phase III 1997-2003. An ecologic study was carried out. The prevalence of asthma was obtained from this study from 48 centers in 14 countries, and meteorological variables from those stations closest to ISAAC centers, together with other socioeconomic and health care variables. Multilevel mixed-effects linear regression models were used. For schoolchildren aged 6-7years, the prevalence rate of asthma decreased with an increase in mean annual sunshine hours, showed a positive association with rainy weather, and warm temperature, and a negative one with relative humidity and physician density (PD). Current wheeze prevalence was stronger in autumn/winter seasons and decreased with increasing PD. Severe current wheeze decreased with PD. For schoolchildren aged 13-14years, the prevalence rates of asthma and current wheeze increased with rainy weather, and these rates decreased with increased PD. Current wheeze, as measured by a video questionnaire, was inversely associated with sunny weather, and nurse density. Severe current wheeze prevalence was stronger during autumn/winter seasons, decreased with PD, and indoor chlorinated public swimming pool density, and increased with rainy weather. Meteorological factors, including sunny and rainy weather, and PD may have some effect on the prevalence rates of asthma symptoms in children from west European countries.

UI  - 23152066
TI  - [Asthma bronchiale: lung function is affected by coffeine].
AB  - 

UI  - 23146556
TI  - The complex link between severity of asthma and rhinitis in mite allergic patients.
AB  - A link between respective severities of rhinitis and asthma was found in only half of mite allergic patients with rhinitis and asthma.

UI  - 23143849
TI  - Obesity in children with poorly controlled asthma: Sex differences.
AB  - Obesity did not affect asthma control, airway markers or disease stability; however obesity did affect lung function in a sex-dependent manner. In males, obesity associated with reduced FEV1/FVC, and in females, obesity associated with substantially improved lung function.

UI  - 23143589
TI  - The validation of the Turkish version of Asthma Control Test.
AB  - The Turkish version of the ACT is a valid and reliable tool for assessing asthma control in patients in outpatient settings. The test may facilitate the designation of asthma patients' symptoms as either controlled or uncontrolled.

UI  - 23142309
TI  - Can the Pelargonium sidoides root extract EPs 7630 prevent asthma attacks during viral infections of the upper respiratory tract in children?
AB  - Our study shows that Pelargonium sidoides may prevent asthma attacks during upper respiratory tract viral infections.

UI  - 23141837
TI  - The contribution of sublingual immunotherapy to the achievement of control in birch-related mild persistent asthma: a real-life randomised trial.
AB  - For patients with respiratory allergy due to birch pollen and mild persistent asthma, sublingual immunotherapy added to low-dose inhaled corticosteroids appears effective in maintaining long-term seasonal asthma control, representing a safe opportunity to reduce the cumulative amount of delivered corticosteroids.

UI  - 23141749
TI  - DIRAE study: seasonal allergic rhinitis distribution in Spain.
AB  - The patients with pollinic SAR visited by GPs or ALs show no differences in severity. Less than half of the patients can be considered as "controlled".

UI  - 23131285
TI  - [The study of continuous blood purification in severe asthma].
AB  - Combine CBP might improve the lung mechanical ventilation parameter, cytokine level and blood gas analysis more quickly in severe asthma treatment. The lactate displacement liquid improves the retention of carbon dioxide more.

UI  - 23129148
TI  - High-dose magnesium sulfate infusion protocol for status asthmaticus: a safety and pharmacokinetics cohort study.
AB  - The continuous infusions of MgSO(4) were safe at the studied doses and maintained serum magnesium (SrMg) and ionized magnesium levels similar to levels required to produce smooth muscle relaxation in other clinical settings. Further studies are needed to investigate the efficacy of high-dose continuous MgSO(4) infusion as an adjunctive treatment for severe asthma treatment and determine the SrMg level required to maintain airway smooth muscle relaxation.

UI  - 23126384
TI  - Tailored second-line therapy in asthmatic children with the Arg(16) genotype.
AB  - The Arg(16) (2) receptor genotype confers increased susceptibility to exacerbations in asthmatic children taking regular LABA (long-acting (2) agonists). We therefore evaluated using montelukast as an alternative to salmeterol as tailored second-line asthma controller therapy in children expressing this susceptible genotype. A total of 62 persistent asthmatic children with the homozygous Arg16 genotype were randomized to receive salmeterol (50 g, b.i.d.) or montelukast (5 or 10 mg, once daily) as an add-on to inhaled fluticasone for 1 year. School absences (the primary outcome) were reduced with montelukast compared with salmeterol {difference in score=-0.40 [95% CI (confidence interval), -0.22 to -0.58]; P=0.005}. Salbutamol use was also reduced with montelukast compared with salmeterol [difference in score=-0.47 (95% CI, -0.16 to -0.79); P<0.0001]. Greater improvements occurred in both symptom and quality of life scores with montelukast against salmeterol, whereas there was no difference in FEV(1) (forced expiratory volume in 1 s). In conclusion, montelukast may be suitable as tailored second-line controller therapy instead of salmeterol in asthmatic children expressing the susceptible Arg(16) genotype, a move towards a personalized medicine approach to management.

UI  - 23126237
TI  - Budesonide/formoterol maintenance and reliever therapy via Turbuhaler versus fixed-dose budesonide/formoterol plus terbutaline in patients with asthma: phase III study results.
AB  - Budesonide/formoterol maintenance and reliever therapy provided more effective asthma control, including a prolonged time to first severe asthma exacerbation, than budesonide/formoterol plus terbutaline and was well tolerated. Budesonide/formoterol maintenance and reliever therapy also improved lung function and asthma symptoms.

UI  - 23123925
TI  - Difference in time-course of improvement in asthma control measures between budesonide and budesonide/formoterol.
AB  - Combinations of inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) and inhaled long-acting beta(2)-agonists (LABA) have become widely used for the initiation of maintenance treatment for asthma. However, it has not been fully elucidated whether ICS/LABA alters the time-course of different control outcome measures in steroid-naive patients with asthma compared to the treatment with ICS alone. We compared the time-response in Asthma Control Questionnaire (ACQ), forced expiratory volume in 1s (FEV1), exhaled nitric oxide fraction (FE(NO)), and airway responsiveness to methacholine (PD(200)) between budesonide (BUD) and budesonide/formoterol (BUD/FM). BUD/FM therapy significantly improved the ACQ score at week 2 and week 4 (p<0.01 and p<0.05), and increased FEV1 and the methacholine threshold at week 8 and week 24 (all p<0.05) compared to BUD alone. A logistic function model showed that the BUD/FM combination significantly improved ACQ, FEV1, FE(NO) and PD(200) at a faster rate than BUD over 24 weeks (p<0.001 for ACQ, FEV1, PD(200), and p<0.05 for FE(NO), z-test). A significant variance in the time-response was also found in the outcomes of the two treatment groups (FE(NO) and ACQ>FEV1 and PD(200), p<0.001, z-test). The present study provides evidence that ICS/LABA combination therapy results in a more rapid improvement in asthma symptoms, lung function, and airway inflammation compared to ICS monotherapy in steroid-naive patients with asthma.

UI  - 23102735
TI  - Effect of inhaled endotoxin on regional particle deposition in patients with mild asthma.
AB  - 

UI  - 23102189
TI  - Fluticasone/formoterol combination therapy versus budesonide/formoterol for the treatment of asthma: a randomized, controlled, non-inferiority trial of efficacy and safety.
AB  - This study demonstrated comparable efficacy of fluticasone/formoterol to budesonide/formoterol in terms of the primary endpoint, change in pre-dose FEV from baseline to Week 12. This was supported by comparable results for both treatments for all secondary endpoints.

UI  - 23098359
TI  - Effects of low-dose fluticasone propionate/salmeterol combination therapy on exhaled nitric oxide and nitrite/nitrate in breath condensates from patients with mild persistent asthma.
AB  - Treatment of mild persistent, steroid-nave asthmatics with low-dose combination therapy is effective in rapidly reducing airway inflammation and AHR. Our results suggest different metabolic origins for nitrite, nitrate, and FE(NO) in this group of patients.

UI  - 23098325
TI  - Long-term safety and efficacy of fluticasone/formoterol combination therapy in asthma.
AB  - Fluticasone/formoterol had a good safety and efficacy profile over the 6- and 12-month study periods.

UI  - 23094708
TI  - Evaluation of bedoradrine sulfate (MN-221), a novel, highly selective beta2-adrenergic receptor agonist for the treatment of asthma via intravenous infusion.
AB  - The safety profile of MN-221 and evidence of dose- and plasma-concentration-related bronchodilation supports further clinical development and suggests the potential for clinical benefit without increased clinical risk, particularly for patients where inhaled or nebulized therapy is not adequate or possible. Trial registry name and registration number:Name: MN-221-CL-005Number: NCT00679263.

UI  - 23083840
TI  - Concomitant asthma medications in moderate-to-severe allergic asthma treated with omalizumab.
AB  - Omalizumab therapy initiation was associated with decreased doses of ICS, SABA, and LTM over 2 years of follow-up for the majority of patients in a "real-world" cohort study of moderate-to-severe allergic asthma patients.

UI  - 23081745
TI  - Onset of bronchodilation with fluticasone/formoterol combination versus fluticasone/salmeterol in an open-label, randomized study.
AB  - These analyses showed that fluticasone/formoterol provided a faster onset of bronchodilation than fluticasone/salmeterol, which was maintained over 12 weeks of treatment. This benefit may facilitate treatment adherence among patients with asthma.

UI  - 23078148
TI  - Safety and efficacy of fluticasone/formoterol combination therapy in adolescent and adult patients with mild-to-moderate asthma: a randomised controlled trial.
AB  - Fluticasone/formoterol had a good safety and tolerability profile and showed statistically superior efficacy for the three co-primary endpoints compared to fluticasone, formoterol, and placebo, in adolescents and adults with mild-to-moderate asthma. EudraCT number: 2007-002866-36; US NCT number: NCT00393991.

UI  - 23076649
TI  - Acute respiratory health effects of urban air pollutants in adults with different patterns of underlying respiratory disease.
AB  - Respiratory problems leading to a doctor visit, associated with an increase in exposure to NO(2) and TSP, may have a faster dynamic in individuals with COPD.

UI  - 23073336
TI  - Effects of tiotropium on lung function in severe asthmatics with or without emphysematous changes.
AB  - The effects of tiotropium, an inhaled long-acting anti-cholinergic agent, on lung function were investigated in obstructed severe asthmatics with and without emphysematous changes despite maximal recommended treatments with high-dose of inhaled glucocorticoids and inhaled long-acting (2)-agonists. We conducted a double-blind, placebo-controlled study of an inhaled single-dose of tiotropium in 18 asthmatics with emphysema and 18 without emphysema in a crossover manner. The primary efficacy outcome was the relative change in forced expiratory volume in 1s (FEV(1)) from baseline to 60min, and the secondary outcome was a relative change in FEV(1) from baseline to 12h. Subsequently, the patients were treated with tiotropium inhaled once daily for 12 weeks in an open label manner, and lung function and symptoms were evaluated. At baseline, patients with or without emphysema had a mean FEV(1) of 55.9% before tiotropium and 56.8% before placebo, or 77.4% before tiotropium and 77.6% before placebo of the predicted value and were taking a mean dose of inhaled glucocorticoids of 1444 or 1422g/day. Among patients with emphysema, the increase from baseline FEV(1) was 12.6 percentage points higher at 60min after tiotropium than after placebo. Among patients without emphysema, the increase from baseline FEV(1) was 5.4 percentage points higher at 60min after tiotropium than after placebo. Tiotropium resulted in improved lung function and symptoms in asthmatics with and without emphysema. These findings suggest that tiotropium will provide a new strategy for the treatment of bronchial asthma and of overlapping asthma and COPD.

UI  - 23072077
TI  - [Impacts on the life quality of patients with bronchial asthma treated with acupuncture in terms of the lung and large intestine theory].
AB  - Acupuncture improves the quality of life much more obviously for the patients with bronchial asthma in terms of the lung and large intestine theory.

UI  - 23069487
TI  - Can a school-based hand hygiene program reduce asthma exacerbations among elementary school children?
AB  - Although the intervention was not found to be effective, the results were confounded by the H1N1 influenza pandemic that resulted in substantially increased hand hygiene behaviors and resources in usual-care schools. Therefore these results should be viewed cautiously.

UI  - 23062392
TI  - Once-daily fluticasone furoate is efficacious in patients with symptomatic asthma on low-dose inhaled corticosteroids.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00603278.

UI  - 23062390
TI  - Assessment of specific immunotherapy efficacy using a novel placebo score-based method.
AB  - This novel PlSW analysis results in better discrimination of the effects of allergen immunotherapy compared with placebo and may be widely applicable in similar studies, both prospectively and retrospectively.

UI  - 23062388
TI  - Correlation of vitamin D with Foxp3 induction and steroid-sparing effect of immunotherapy in asthmatic children.
AB  - The efficacy of allergen SIT correlates with 25(OH)D serum concentration. It seems that a serum level of 25(OH)D higher than 30 ng/mL facilitates the optimal effect of allergen immunotherapy.

UI  - 23062383
TI  - Exhaled RANTES and interleukin 4 levels after exercise challenge in children with asthma.
AB  - We found that exercise challenge, leading to hyperosmolar stimulus, may increase exhaled RANTES levels in children with asthma. In addition, exhaled RANTES levels correlate well with serum IgE, severity of asthma, FEV1/FVC ratio, and body mass index. RANTES and IL-4 may not be independent predictors for EIB. Furthermore, eosinophil count and FEV1/FVC ratio may predict the presence and severity of EIB in asthmatic children.

UI  - 23059373
TI  - Axial distribution of nitric oxide airway production in asthma patients.
AB  - In healthy subjects, axial distribution of nitric oxide (NO) airway production is likely heterogeneous: notably a distal peak of production in terminal bronchioles and a quasi-nil NO production in the most of the conducting airways. In asthma, few information exists about the contributions of the proximal and distal airways to NO overproduction. In 18 asthma patients, sites of constriction after methacholine and adenosine 5'-monophosphate (AMP) challenges were assessed by ventilation distribution tests with He and SF(6). The resulting decreases in fractional exhaled NO (FENO) were measured. Changes in He and SF(6) slopes indicated a pre-acinar bronchoconstriction due to AMP and a more proximal action for methacholine. FENO decreased by 38.7% and 20.2% (p<0.001) after AMP and methacholine challenges, respectively. Significant FENO decreases after AMP and methacholine implies substantial pre-acinar but also, contrary to healthy subjects, more proximal airway production. In conclusion, nitric oxide overproduction in asthma patients appears to involve the most part of the conducting airways.

UI  - 23047989
TI  - The effect of a single dose of acetaminophen on airways response in children with asthma.
AB  - One single dose of acetaminophen neither evokes a bronchoconstriction response nor an increase in airway inflammation in children with asthma.

UI  - 23047980
TI  - Asthma education and health outcomes of children aged 8 to 12 years.
AB  - The purpose of this study was to evaluate the health outcomes of 8- to 12-year-old urban-dwelling children with moderate to severe persistent asthma who participated in a modified Open Airways for Schools (OAS) asthma education program. It was hypothesized that the intervention group would have improved health outcomes when compared to control. A 2-group, 3-points-in-time method was used to conduct the study. The intervention group demonstrated significant and sustained improvement in asthma knowledge. There was no significant difference between groups for quality of life or pulmonary function. While OAS is a good program for asthma education, the program alone may not be sufficient to improve risk factors associated with poor pulmonary function. Future studies should incorporate environmental interventions.

UI  - 23041133
TI  - Identification of aero-allergens from Rhizopus oryzae: an immunoproteomic approach.
AB  - Airborne fungal spores bearing allergens are the causative agent for inducing immediate hypersensitive reaction in sensitive individuals. In this study the potential aeroallergens have been reported for the first time from Rhizopus oryzae a common airborne mold. Clinical data based on SPT was further confirmed by ELISA. IgE reactive bands were revealed by one-dimensional immunoblotting. A 44 kDa major reactive band was found in all immunoblots. For precise identification of allergens, an immuno-proteomic approach was taken with a combination of 2-Dimensional gel electrophoresis and Mass-spectrometry. 2D map of spore-mycelial protein was confronted with pooled sera and several IgE reactive spots were detected, most of which were glycoproteins and except for one, which has no antigenic determinacy after metaperiodate modification. Each of those spots was identified by MALDI-TOF-TOF. Some bioinformatic approaches were taken to predict the signal peptide and subcellular localization of each protein. Major 44 kDa allergen was identified as Aspartyl endopeptidase. Sequence information was extracted from MS/MS spectra of two tryptic peptides generated from the 44 kDa endopeptidase. Multiple alignments with other reported aspartyl protease allergens showed significant homology. Allergenicity assessment of this protein was performed in silico and identified as a potential putative allergen.

UI  - 23040886
TI  - Leukotriene D4 and methacholine bronchial provocation tests for identifying leukotriene-responsiveness subtypes.
AB  - Diagnostic value and safety were ideal in both tests. The combination of cumulative dose for LTD(4) and potency ratio might be useful to identify leukotriene-responsive asthmatic patients.

UI  - 23040885
TI  - Further replication studies of the EVE Consortium meta-analysis identifies 2 asthma risk loci in European Americans.
AB  - This extended replication study identified 2 additional asthma risk loci in populations of European descent. The absence of additional loci for African Americans and Latinos highlights the difficulty in replicating associations in admixed populations.

UI  - 23039399
TI  - Breastfeeding practice and its association with respiratory symptoms and atopic disease in 1-3-year-old children in the city of Riyadh, central Saudi Arabia.
AB  - Although breastfeeding does not protect children from developing eczema in Riyadh, full breastfeeding is associated with reduced childhood wheezing and possibly asthma. Further efforts should be made to promote breastfeeding in Saudi Arabia.

UI  - 23039312
TI  - Particulate matter air pollution and respiratory symptoms in individuals having either asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease: a European multicentre panel study.
AB  - The observed associations with coarse particles are in agreement with the findings of toxicological studies. Together they suggest it is prudent to regulate also coarse particles in addition to fine particles.

UI  - 23038718
TI  - Environmental triggers of hospital admissions for school-age children with asthma in two British cities.
AB  - Research has reported seasonal peaks in asthma in school age asthmatic children. The study aimed to assess if hospital admissions could be predicted from the possible environmental triggers using data from two British cities: Aberdeen and Doncaster. However, there were no consistent patterns across the two cities with no clear evidence that hospital admissions could be predicted from environmental data.

UI  - 23038624
TI  - Prednisolone reduces the ability of serum to activate the IGF1 receptor in vitro without affecting circulating total or free IGF1.
AB  - Our study gives evidence that GC treatment induces a circulating substance that is able to inhibit IGF1R activation in vitro without affecting circulating free or total IGF1. This may be one of the mechanisms by which GC inhibits IGF1 action in vivo. However, the nature of this circulating substance remains to be identified.

UI  - 23034276
TI  - ADMA, SDMA, L-Arginine and nitric oxide in allergic pediatric bronchial asthma.
AB  - Published data regarding asymmetric dimethylarginine (ADMA), symmetric dimethylarginine (SDMA), L-arginine (L-ARG) and nitric oxide fraction in exhaled air (FeNO) in pediatric bronchial asthma are limited. Many question remain open about plasma concentration of these substances. The aim of this study is to evaluate ADMA, SDMA, L-ARG and FeNO concentration in allergic pediatric mild asthmatic patients in respect to healthy subjects. In this case-control study 60 children (50 asthmatics and 10 healthy) underwent a complete clinical visit, baseline respiratory function, allergy tests and biochemical analyses. The statistical significance of the different concentrations between the two groups were studied using one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA). A p value less than 0.05 was considered statistically significant. The mean plasma ADMA (0.58 vs 0.68 micromol/L), SDMA (0.40 vs 0.45 micromol/L) and L-ARG (52.2 vs 74.13 micromol/L) concentration were significantly lower (p less than 0.001) in the asthmatic patients in respect to healthy subjects (control group). The concentration of FeNO was significantly higher in the asthmatic subjects in respect to the control group (9.18 vs 4.2 micromol/L; p less than 0.001). Low plasma concentrations of ADMA, SDMA, L-ARG and high concentration of FeNO are associated with bronchial asthma and indicate an important role in airway disease through NO metabolism.

UI  - 23033885
TI  - An electronic diary is shown to be more reliable than a paper diary: results from a randomized crossover study in patients with persistent asthma.
AB  - Acceptable reproducibility of the percentage of RFD (ICC = 0.78) was only observed for the e-diary using the FEV(1) stability criterion. The ICCs for SFD and RFD were acceptable, 0.84 and 0.70, respectively, suggesting better reliability for the e-diary.

UI  - 23033807
TI  - Iloprost inhalation in mild asthma.
AB  - Inhaled iloprost in carefully selected volunteers with mild asthma appears to be a suitable intervention to explore the effects of prostacyclin in human asthma.

UI  - 23029966
TI  - Effect of yoga practices on pulmonary function tests including transfer factor of lung for carbon monoxide (TLCO) in asthma patients.
AB  - Prana is the energy, when the self-energizing force embraces the body with extension and expansion and control, it is pranayama. It may affect the milieu at the bronchioles and the alveoli particularly at the alveolo-capillary membrane to facilitate diffusion and transport of gases. It may also increase oxygenation at tissue level. Aim of our study is to compare pulmonary functions and diffusion capacity in patients of bronchial asthma before and after yogic intervention of 2 months. Sixty stable asthmatic-patients were randomized into two groups i.e group 1 (Yoga training group) and group 2 (control group). Each group included thirty patients. Lung functions were recorded on all patients at baseline, and then after two months. Group 1 subjects showed a statistically significant improvement (P<0.001) in Transfer factor of the lung for carbon monoxide (TLCO), forced vital capacity (FVC), forced expiratory volume in 1st sec (FEV1), peak expiratory flow rate (PEFR), maximum voluntary ventilation (MVV) and slow vital capacity (SVC) after yoga practice. Quality of life also increased significantly. It was concluded that pranayama & yoga breathing and stretching postures are used to increase respiratory stamina, relax the chest muscles, expand the lungs, raise energy levels, and calm the body.

UI  - 23025477
TI  - Assessing quality of care in pediatric asthma: applicability of a revised version of the QUOTE-CNSLD questionnaire.
AB  - The revised QUOTE-CNSLD instrument is applicable in a pediatric population with stable asthma and it has discriminative value between different follow-up settings.

UI  - 23024023
TI  - The utility of fractional exhaled nitric oxide suppression in the identification of nonadherence in difficult asthma.
AB  - Fe(NO) suppression after DOICS provides an objective test to distinguish adherent from nonadherent patients with difficult asthma. Clinical trial registered with www.clinicaltrials.gov (NCT 01219036).

UI  - 23021878
TI  - Omalizumab is effective in allergic and nonallergic patients with nasal polyps and asthma.
AB  - Omalizumab demonstrated clinical efficacy in the treatment of nasal polyps with comorbid asthma, supporting the importance and functionality of local IgE formation in the airways.

UI  - 23010234
TI  - Comparison of the long-term efficacy of 3- and 5-year house dust mite allergen immunotherapy.
AB  - Three years of SIT is an adequate duration for the treatment of childhood asthma associated with HDM allergy because 2 further years of SIT added no clinical benefit.

UI  - 23010229
TI  - Association between obesity and asthma in the elderly population: potential roles of abdominal subcutaneous adiposity and sarcopenia.
AB  - Our findings suggest that the relationships between obesity and asthma in the elderly population may be mediated by factors such as abdominal subcutaneous adiposity and sarcopenia. These associations warrant further investigations to identify their potential roles.

UI  - 23006321
TI  - Comparison of the effects of esomeprazole and fundoplication on airway responsiveness in patients with gastro-oesophageal reflux disease.
AB  - Neither esomeprazole treatment nor fundoplication diminishes airway responsiveness or exhaled NO, or improves FEV1 in patients with GORD. Improvements in respiratory symptoms and SGRQ scores after GORD treatments could be detected. However, as this was not a placebo-controlled study, the findings in these secondary endpoints should not be emphasised. ClinicalTrials.cov: NCT00994708.

UI  - 23005919
TI  - Comparison of the bronchodilating effects of albuterol delivered by valved vs. non-valved spacers in pediatric asthma.
AB  - In stable asthmatic children, albuterol administered through MDI using a non-valved spacer produces a bronchodilator response similar to that of a spacer with a valve that requires an inhalatory opening pressure (with flows between 2 and 32 l/min) that even toddlers with bronchial obstruction can easily generate.

UI  - 23002077
TI  - Estrogen effects on human airway smooth muscle involve cAMP and protein kinase A.
AB  - Clinically observed differences in airway reactivity and asthma exacerbations in women at different life stages suggest a role for sex steroids in modulating airway function although their targets and mechanisms of action are still being explored. We have previously shown that clinically relevant concentrations of exogenous estrogen acutely decrease intracellular calcium ([Ca(2+)](i)) in human airway smooth muscle (ASM), thereby facilitating bronchodilation. In this study, we hypothesized that estrogens modulate cyclic nucleotide regulation, resulting in decreased [Ca(2+)](i) in human ASM. In Fura-2-loaded human ASM cells, 1 nM 17-estradiol (E(2)) potentiated the inhibitory effect of the -adrenoceptor (-AR) agonist isoproterenol (ISO; 100 nM) on histamine-mediated Ca(2+) entry. Inhibition of protein kinase A (PKA) activity (KT5720; 100 nM) attenuated E(2) effects on [Ca(2+)](i). Acute treatment with E(2) increased cAMP levels in ASM cells comparable to that of ISO (100 pM). In acetylcholine-contracted airways from female guinea pigs or female humans, E(2) potentiated ISO-induced relaxation. These novel data suggest that, in human ASM, physiologically relevant concentrations of estrogens act via estrogen receptors (ERs) and the cAMP pathway to nongenomically reduce [Ca(2+)](i), thus promoting bronchodilation. Activation of ERs may be a novel adjunct therapeutic avenue in reactive airway diseases in combination with established cAMP-activating therapies such as (2)-agonists.

UI  - 23000726
TI  - Effects of transdermal tulobuterol in pediatric asthma patients on long-term leukotriene receptor antagonist therapy: results of a randomized, open-label, multicenter clinical trial in Japanese children aged 4-12 years.
AB  - These results suggest that short-term use of a transdermal (2) agonist is an effective therapy for pediatric asthma without inducing airway inflammation in children on long-term LTRA therapy.

UI  - 23000724
TI  - Repeated-dose pharmacokinetics of inhaled ciclesonide (CIC-HFA) in Japanese children with bronchial asthma: a phase I study.
AB  - Our results suggest that there is little difference in the pharmacokinetics of des-isobutyryl-ciclesonide up on repeated administration of CIC-HFA between Japanese and Caucasian children with bronchial asthma. And our study suggests that CIC-HFA (200 g/day, once daily) can be administered safely for 7 days, without raising any safety concerns.

UI  - 22997785
TI  - [Comparative study on effect of acupoint heat-sensitive moxibustion and Seretide on the symptoms of bronchial asthma at chronic persistent stage].
AB  - The acupoint heat-sensitive moxibustion effectively relieves the clinical symptoms for the patients with bronchial asthma at the chronic persistent stage. Its efficacy is similar to that of Seretide inhaler. But the long-term efficacy of the heat-sensitive moxibustion is much better.

UI  - 22991952
TI  - Factors associated with completion of a behavioral intervention for caregivers of urban children with asthma.
AB  - The majority of caregivers of high-risk children with asthma were successfully engaged in this home and PCP-based intervention. Caregivers of older children with asthma and those with high stress may need additional support for program completion. Further, the lack of an asthma action plan may be a marker of preexisting barriers to preventive care.

UI  - 22989372
TI  - Airway responses and inflammation in subjects with asthma after four days of repeated high-single-dose allergen challenge.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.govNCT00677209.

UI  - 22985483
TI  - Validation of the modified allergic rhinitis and its impact on asthma (ARIA) severity classification in allergic rhinitis children: the PEDRIAL study.
AB  - The m-ARIA severity classification is a useful clinical tool to discriminate moderate from severe AR among untreated pediatric patients.

UI  - 22982562
TI  - Association of airway pentosidine levels with bronchodilator response mediated by salbutamol administration in asthmatic patients.
AB  - Our results showed that pentosidine might be a potential biomarker reflecting the reduced bronchodilator response in asthma. This study will provide new insights into the mechanisms underlying persistent airway obstruction.

UI  - 22978728
TI  - Practice patterns in asthma discharge pharmacotherapy in pediatric emergency departments: a pediatric emergency research Canada study.
AB  - The overwhelming majority of children discharged from Canadian pediatric EDs with acute asthma are prescribed inhaled albuterol via MDIs. Although the corticosteroid use at discharge is higher than previously reported, utilization of new prescriptions for ICS may not be optimal. Children presenting during daytime to EDs receiving intensive stabilization are more likely to receive the albuterol/oral steroid/ICS combination.

UI  - 22978309
TI  - Patients with asthma benefit from concomitant therapy with cineole: a placebo-controlled, double-blind trial.
AB  - Concomitant therapy using cineole can lead to notable improvement in lung function and health condition as well as to reduce dyspnea in asthma patients.

UI  - 22978252
TI  - Pharmacokinetic comparison of inhaled fixed combination vs. the free combination of beclomethasone and formoterol pMDIs in asthmatic children.
AB  - BDP and formoterol pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic effects are non-superior after administration of the two actives as fixed vs. the free combination in 5-11-year-old asthmatic children.

UI  - 22974768
TI  - Changes in asthma treatment in the Spanish Cohort of the European Community Respiratory Health Survey (ECRHS) from 1991-2001: a perspective over time.
AB  - 

UI  - 22973604
TI  - Adherence in single-parent households in a long-term asthma clinical trial.
AB  - Adherence of participants in a long-term clinical trial is necessary to assure validity of findings. This article examines adherence differences between single-parent and two-parent families in the Childhood Asthma Management Program (CAMP). Adherence was defined as the percentage of completed daily diary cards and scheduled study visits during the course of the trial. Logistic regression and ordinal logistic regression analyses were used. Children from single-parent families had a lower percentage of completed diary cards (72% vs. 84%) than two-parent families. Single-parent families were also more likely to reschedule visits (62% vs. 45%) and miss more clinic visits (23% vs. 17%) than two-parent families. Suggestions are given for study coordinators to assist participants in completing a long-term clinical trial. Many suggestions may be adapted for nurses in inpatient or outpatient settings for assisting parents of patients with chronic diseases.

UI  - 22968888
TI  - Comparison of physician-, biomarker-, and symptom-based strategies for adjustment of inhaled corticosteroid therapy in adults with asthma: the BASALT randomized controlled trial.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00495157.

UI  - 22964926
TI  - Evaluation of the efficacy and safety of a fixed-dose, single-capsule budesonide-formoterol combination in uncontrolled asthma: a randomized, double-blind, multicenter, controlled clinical trial.
AB  - The single-capsule combination of budesonide and formoterol appears to be efficacious and safe. Our results indicate that this formulation is a valid therapeutic option for obtaining and maintaining asthma control. (ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT01676987 [http://www.clinicaltrials.gov/]).

UI  - 22963594
TI  - Translating basic behavioral and social science research to clinical application: the EVOLVE mixed methods approach.
AB  - The EVOLVE method is a means by which basic behavioral science research can be translated into efficacious interventions for chronic disease populations.

UI  - 22958946
TI  - Early probiotic supplementation for allergy prevention: long-term outcomes.
AB  - 

UI  - 22958541
TI  - Nurse led versus lay educators support for those with asthma in primary care: a costing study.
AB  - There were no significant differences in the cost of training and healthcare delivery between nurse and lay trainers, and no significant difference in the cost of unscheduled health care use.

UI  - 22958052
TI  - The ARGA study with Italian general practitioners: prescriptions for allergic rhinitis and adherence to ARIA guidelines.
AB  - Adherence to ARIA guidelines is satisfactory only for treatment of more severe patients, thus GPs often tend to treat patients independently from ARIA guidelines. Since prescription data only provide limited information to judge prescribing quality, some deviation from the gold standard are to be expected.

UI  - 22955894
TI  - The association of ethnicity with electronically measured adherence to inhaled corticosteroids in children.
AB  - In our Western European population of inner city children with asthma, poor adherence to ICS was a serious problem, and even somewhat more so in ethnic minorities. Paediatricians involved in asthma treatment should be aware of these cultural differences in medication-taking behaviour, but further studies are needed to elucidate the causal mechanism.

UI  - 22955319
TI  - Airway epithelial miRNA expression is altered in asthma.
AB  - Dramatic alterations of airway epithelial cell miRNA levels are a common feature of asthma. These alterations are only modestly corrected by inhaled corticosteroids. IL-13 effects may account for some of these alterations, including repression of miR-34/449 family members that have established roles in airway epithelial cell differentiation. Clinical trial registered with www.clinicaltrials.gov (NCT 00595153).

UI  - 22953785
TI  - Perceptions of parents and physicians concerning the Childhood Asthma Control Test.
AB  - The C-ACT scores increased from visit 1 to visit 3, with improvement seen in all domains of the test. At the end of the study period, the parents more strongly agreed that asthma could be controlled completely and that asthma attacks and nocturnal awakenings due to asthma were preventable (p < .05). Most of the parents reported that the C-ACT helped them to determine asthma treatment goals for their children and also that the C-ACT improved communication with their physicians. The physicians indicated that a control-centered approach was more convenient (95%) and simpler (94.5%) than a severity-centered approach and provided better disease control (93.4%). A higher C-ACT score was associated with a decreased risk of asthma attack and emergency department admittance in the 2 months following the administration of C-ACT. Conclusion. Our findings indicated that the C-ACT improved both parental outlook on asthma control and the communication between the physician and parents. There was a good correlation between the C-ACT score and the level of asthma control achieved, as described by the physician. Additionally the C-ACT score was predictive of future asthma-related events. These findings suggest that the C-ACT may have an important role in asthma management in the future.

UI  - 22952297
TI  - Maternal smoking in pregnancy and asthma in preschool children: a pooled analysis of eight birth cohorts.
AB  - Maternal smoking during pregnancy appears to increase the risk of wheeze and asthma among children who are not exposed to maternal smoking after birth.

UI  - 22948442
TI  - Omalizumab protects against allergen- induced bronchoconstriction in allergic (immunoglobulin E-mediated) asthma.
AB  - Omalizumab blocked early asthmatic responses over a broad range of IgE/body weight combinations. Extending the dosing tables enables omalizumab to benefit a wider range of patients.

UI  - 22941976
TI  - The at-risk registers in severe asthma (ARRISA) study: a cluster-randomised controlled trial examining effectiveness and costs in primary care.
AB  - Using asthma risk registers in primary care did not reduce treated exacerbations, but reduced hospitalisations and increased prescriptions of recommended preventative therapies without increasing costs.

UI  - 22938716
TI  - Effect of inhaled glucocorticoids in childhood on adult height.
AB  - The initial decrease in attained height associated with the use of inhaled glucocorticoids in prepubertal children persisted as a reduction in adult height, although the decrease was not progressive or cumulative. (Funded by the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute and the National Center for Research Resources; CAMP ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00000575.).

UI  - 22938706
TI  - Tiotropium in asthma poorly controlled with standard combination therapy.
AB  - In patients with poorly controlled asthma despite the use of inhaled glucocorticoids and LABAs, the addition of tiotropium significantly increased the time to the first severe exacerbation and provided modest sustained bronchodilation. (Funded by Boehringer Ingelheim and Pfizer; ClinicalTrials.gov numbers, NCT00772538 and NCT00776984.).

UI  - 22935133
TI  - PELICAN: A quality of life instrument for childhood asthma: study protocol of two randomized controlled trials in primary and specialized care in the Netherlands.
AB  - This study is registered by clinicaltrial.gov (NCT01109745).

UI  - 22932169
TI  - Budesonide/formoterol maintenance and reliever therapy in Chinese patients with asthma.
AB  - In Chinese patients with persistent asthma, BUD/FORM decreased severe and mild exacerbations, decreased reliever use, increased symptom-free days, and improved morning/evening PEF compared with SALM/FP. There were no significant differences in time to first severe exacerbation or other assessments regarding daily asthma control between BUD/FORM and SALM/FP. BUD/FORM was more effective in this Chinese sub-group than in the total cohort involved in the original study.

UI  - 22926233
TI  - A randomized, comparative, multicentric clinical trial to assess the efficacy and safety of zileuton extended-release tablets with montelukast sodium tablets in patients suffering from chronic persistent asthma.
AB  - Leukotriene (LT) modifiers are anti-inflammatory drugs that are useful as an add-on therapy with first-line asthma-controller medications. This group includes LT synthesis inhibitors (eg, Zileuton) and receptor antagonists (eg, Montelukast), whose direct comparative clinical data are not available. This study was conducted to assess the comparative efficacy and safety of orally administered Zileuton extended-release (ER) with Montelukast sodium in patients suffering from chronic persistent asthma. Patients of 18-65 years of age with mild to moderate chronic stable asthma were randomized to treatment with Zileuton ER 2400 mg/d or Montelukast 10 mg/d for 12 weeks. Peak expiratory flow rate (PEFR) and asthma symptoms (cough, wheeze, chest tightness, and shortness of breath each on a 4-point scale) were assessed on monthly scheduled out-patient visits. Safety assessments by clinical and laboratory parameters were carried out during the course of the study. Among 210 patients eligible for efficacy assessment, PEFR improved by 64.8  52.8 (95% confidence interval: 54.8-74.7) L/min with Zileuton ER (n = 109) and 40.6  47.5 (31.3-49.9) L/min with Montelukast (n = 101; P < 0.001), whereas percent improvements were 27.0% (22.6%-31.5%) versus 18.4% (14.1%-22.7%), respectively (P = 0.006). Zileuton ER lead to 12% PEFR improvements in 74 of 109 [67.9% (59.1%-76.7%)] patients, whereas the same was noted in 52 of 101 [51.5% (41.7%-61.2%)] patients receiving Montelukast (P = 0.015). The reduction in the mean overall symptom intensity score was also significantly better with Zileuton ER [-5.0  2.1 (4.6-5.4) versus -4.2  2.3 (3.8-4.7)] (P = 0.018); however, the same was not observed for the decline in the individual symptom scores. A lesser but not significantly different adverse event rate was reported in the Zileuton ER group than the Montelukast group with the commonest events being headache and gastrointestinal effects in both the groups. Thus, Zileuton ER seems to be more efficacious than Montelukast and well tolerated for the treatment of mild to moderate chronic persistent asthma in adult patient population. Further studies can elucidate the comparative treatment benefits of these LT modifiers in asthma management.

UI  - 22920077
TI  - Pollen starch granules in bronchial inflammation.
AB  - Pollen grains cause nasal symptoms but do not augment lower airway inflammation, whereas starch granules trigger lower airway inflammation but hardly induce nasal symptoms.

UI  - 22920074
TI  - Status of asthma control in children and the effect of parents' knowledge, attitude, and practice (KAP) in China: a multicenter study.
AB  - Children's asthma is poorly controlled. The cost of asthma is significantly higher in uncontrolled asthma than in controlled. The age of children, course of asthma, personal history of allergy, family history of asthma, parents' education level, and parents' KAP are factors that affect asthma control.

UI  - 22918559
TI  - Distinctive bronchial inflammation status in athletes: basophils, a new player.
AB  - The aim of the study was to establish bronchial inflammation status and to measure eicosanoids in sputum obtained from active elite athletes. A total of 68 subjects were enrolled. Twelve were non-athletes and non-asthmatic (NAtNAs), 21 non-athlete asthmatics (NAtAs), 11 athlete non-asthmatics (AtNAs), and 24 athletes with asthma (AtAs) with positive indirect or direct bronchial challenges. Induced sputum was used to measure cells and eicosanoids. Sputum differential cell counts in all the subject groups revealed eosinophilia with the exception of NAtNAs control subjects. Athletes with and without diagnosed asthma showed a significant increase in bronchial epithelial cells and lymphocytes present in their sputum. Also, flow cytometry revealed that a significantly higher number of basophils were present in sputum from athletes (without and with asthma) when compared with non-athletes (without and with asthma). Asthmatic athletes and non-athletes showed a higher increase in LTC(4) levels and PGE(2) metabolites in sputum when compared with healthy controls. The present study identifies basophils as a new player present in athletes bronchial inflammation defining athlete status and not necessarily associated with exercise-induced bronchoconstriction.

UI  - 22909281
TI  - Single dose oral dexamethasone versus multi-dose prednisolone in the treatment of acute exacerbations of asthma in children who attend the emergency department: study protocol for a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - ISRCTN26944158 and EudraCT Number 2010-022001-18.

UI  - 22907567
TI  - A randomized double-blind controlled study of laninamivir compared with oseltamivir for the treatment of influenza in patients with chronic respiratory diseases.
AB  - Influenza infection tends to be severe in patients with chronic underlying diseases. This study evaluated the efficacy and safety of laninamivir octanoate, an inhaled neuraminidase inhibitor, for the treatment of influenza patients with chronic respiratory diseases; we conducted a double-blind, randomized controlled trial to compare the efficacy and safety of laninamivir octanoate and oseltamivir for the treatment of influenza in these patients. A total of 203 patients aged 20 years were randomized to receive either laninamivir octanoate or oseltamivir. The primary efficacy endpoint was the time to illness alleviation. This study is registered with JapicCTI; the registration number is JapicCTI-090940. The full analysis set (FAS) included a total of 201 patients (laninamivir group, n = 101; oseltamivir group, n = 100). Most patients had underlying bronchial asthma and 170 patients were infected with influenza A(H1N1)2009. The median time to illness alleviation was 64.7 h in the laninamivir group and 59.7 h in the oseltamivir group, with a difference of 5.0 h between the two groups (95 % confidence interval, -13.6 to 16.1 h). No adverse events specific to laninamivir octanoate were observed, and adverse events such as bronchospasm, which has been reported to be observed with other inhaled drugs related to laninamivir octanoate, did not occur. Laninamivir octanoate showed similar efficacy and safety to oseltamivir in the treatment of influenza, including that caused by influenza A(H1N1)2009, in patients with chronic respiratory diseases.

UI  - 22906434
TI  - Peak expiratory flow in bed? A comparison of 3 positions.
AB  - Clinicians should ensure that PEF is obtained with patients out of bed and in the standing position.

UI  - 22905985
TI  - An integrative medicine approach to asthma: who responds?
AB  - It is possible to identify a set of characteristics that may predict a positive response to an integrative/lifestyle approach to asthma. These characteristics should be examined prospectively using both quantitative and qualitative methods in future integrative medicine clinical trials.

UI  - 22901886
TI  - Mepolizumab for severe eosinophilic asthma (DREAM): a multicentre, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - GlaxoSmithKline.

UI  - 22898278
TI  - [Efficacy of specific sublingual immunotherapy with dermatophagoides farinae drops in the treatment of cough variant asthma in children].
AB  - Specific sublingual immunotherapy with dermatophagoides farinae drops is an effective and highly safe treatment for cough variant asthma in children.

UI  - 22891189
TI  - Oscillometric and spirometric bronchodilator response in preschool children with and without asthma.
AB  - The accuracy of asthma diagnosis in preschool children may be increased by combining spirometry with IOS when measuring BDR.

UI  - 22891184
TI  - Spirometry in primary care: an analysis of spirometery test quality in a regional primary care asthma program.
AB  - Health care providers with limited training and experience operating within a simple quality program achieved ATSERS quality spirometry in the majority of sessions in a primary care setting. The quality performance approached pulmonary function laboratory standards.

UI  - 22885561
TI  - Association of dietary soy genistein intake with lung function and asthma control: a post-hoc analysis of patients enrolled in a prospective multicentre clinical trial.
AB  - In patients with asthma, consumption of a diet with moderate to high amounts of soy genistein is associated with better lung function and better asthma control.

UI  - 22884459
TI  - Monitoring free serum IgE in severe asthma patients treated with omalizumab.
AB  - Monitoring free IgE and omalizumab serum concentrations in patients treated with omalizumab does not predict clinical response nor does it add to the decision to continue or stop treatment. However, routine measurements of free IgE may be clinically relevant to demonstrate an adequate reduction in free IgE in patients not responding to omalizumab therapy.

UI  - 22882543
TI  - Transient sputum eosinophilia may occur over time in non-eosinophilic asthma and this is not prevented by salmeterol.
AB  - Low sputum eosinophil numbers persisted over 6 months in a majority of patients with non-eosinophilic asthma who received salmeterol monotherapy. However, transient sputum eosinophilia occurred in 40% indicating that non-eosinophilic asthma may not be a stable phenotype.

UI  - 22878848
TI  - Asthma beliefs are associated with medication adherence in older asthmatics.
AB  - Illness and treatment beliefs have a strong influence on self-reported medication adherence in older asthmatics. Interventions to improve medication adherence in older asthmatics by modifying illness and treatment beliefs warrant study.
