
UI  - 25096697
TI  - Association of long vs standard detection intervals for implantable cardioverter-defibrillators with hospitalizations and costs.
AB  - 

UI  - 24964505
TI  - [Frequency of use of oral vitamin K antagonists in patients with atrial fibrillation and cognitive function disturbances].
AB  - Along with the advancing age, there is an increase of the incidence of persistent and fixed atrial fibrillation, of the risk of thromboembolic complications and of the severity of cognitive function disturbances. Treatment with oral vitamin K antagonists was implemented much less frequently among patients with atrial fibrillation and cognitive function disturbances, as compared to the patients with normal cognitive function. The MMSE test should be routinely performed in patients with atrial fibrillation to monitor the efficacy and safety of the treatment with oral vitamin K antagonists properly. In patients with disturbances of cognitive function, significantly lower reportability of AF-related complaints was shown, as compared to individuals without these disturbances. Patients with normal MMSE result were referred to the hospital because AF-related symptoms, in the group of patients with MMSE < 23 the main reason for hospitalization was the severity of the symptoms heart failure. ECG should be a routine test performed in elderly patients with cognitive function disturbances or with dementia to detect atrial fibrillation.

UI  - 24963567
TI  - Cryptogenic stroke and underlying atrial fibrillation.
AB  - ECG monitoring with an ICM was superior to conventional follow-up for detecting atrial fibrillation after cryptogenic stroke. (Funded by Medtronic; CRYSTAL AF ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00924638.).

UI  - 24963566
TI  - Atrial fibrillation in patients with cryptogenic stroke.
AB  - Among patients with a recent cryptogenic stroke or TIA who were 55 years of age or older, paroxysmal atrial fibrillation was common. Noninvasive ambulatory ECG monitoring for a target of 30 days significantly improved the detection of atrial fibrillation by a factor of more than five and nearly doubled the rate of anticoagulant treatment, as compared with the standard practice of short-duration ECG monitoring. (Funded by the Canadian Stroke Network and others; EMBRACE ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00846924.).

UI  - 24952943
TI  - Short-term effects of air pollution on a range of cardiovascular events in England and Wales: case-crossover analysis of the MINAP database, hospital admissions and mortality.
AB  - This study found no clear evidence for pollution effects on STEMIs and stroke, which ultimately represent thrombogenic processes, though it did for pulmonary embolism. The strongest associations with air pollution were observed with selected non-MI outcomes.

UI  - 24952929
TI  - Cost analysis of periprocedural imaging in patients undergoing catheter ablation for atrial fibrillation.
AB  - Cardiovascular imaging is an important part of procedural planning and safety for catheter ablation of atrial fibrillation (AF). However, the costs of imaging surrounding catheter ablation of AF have not been described. Medicare fee-for-service data were used to evaluate Medicare expenditures before, during, and after catheter ablation for AF from July 2007 to December 2009. Among 11,525 patients who underwent catheter ablation for AF, the mean overall expenditure on the day of the procedure was $14,455 (SD $7,441). The mean imaging expenditure in the periprocedural period, which included the 30 days before the catheter ablation and the day of the ablation itself, was $884 (SD $455). Periprocedural imaging expenditures varied by the imaging strategy used, ranging from a mean of $557 (SD $269) for patients with electroanatomic mapping only to $1,234 (SD $461) for patients with electroanatomic mapping, transesophageal echocardiogram, and computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging. Mean patient-level imaging expenditures varied by provider (mean $872, SD $249). Periprocedural imaging expenditures also varied by patient risk, with mean expenditures of $862 (SD $444) for patients with a CHADS2 score of 2 compared with $907 (SD $466) for CHADS2 score<2 (p<0.001). In conclusion, periprocedural imaging accounts for approximately 6% of mean Medicare expenditures for catheter ablation of AF. The expenditures for periprocedural imaging vary both at the patient and at the provider level and they are inversely related to stroke risk by CHADS2 score.

UI  - 24938848
TI  - Predictive value of newly detected atrial fibrillation paroxysms in patients with acute ischemic stroke, for atrial fibrillation after 90 days.
AB  - AF detection through any means immediately after stroke holds strong PPV for confirmation after 90 days, justifying treatment decisions on early monitoring alone. However, failure to identify AF through early monitoring has only modest NPV even after 7 days of monitoring; repeated investigation is desirable.

UI  - 24925801
TI  - Anticoagulant and antiplatelet therapy in patients with atrial fibrillation undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention.
AB  - The prevalence, intensity, safety, and efficacy of oral anticoagulation (OAC) in addition to dual antiplatelet therapy (DAPT) in "real-world" patients with atrial fibrillation (AF) undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) have not yet been fully evaluated. In the Coronary REvascularization Demonstrating Outcome Study in Kyoto registry cohort-2, a total of 1,057 patients with AF (8.3%) were identified among 12,716 patients undergoing first PCI. Cumulative 5-year incidence of stroke was higher in patients with AF than in no-AF patients (12.8% vs 5.8%, p <0.0001). Although most patients with AF had CHADS2 score 2 (75.2%), only 506 patients (47.9%) received OAC with warfarin at hospital discharge. Cumulative 5-year incidence of stroke in the OAC group was not different from that in the no-OAC group (13.8% vs 11.8%, p= 0.49). Time in therapeutic range (TTR) was only 52.6% with an international normalized ratio of 1.6 to 2.6, and only 154 of 409 patients (37.7%) with international normalized ratio data had TTR 65%. Cumulative 5-year incidence of stroke in patients with TTR 65% was markedly lower than that in patients with TTR <65% (6.9% vs 15.1%, p= 0.01). In a 4-month landmark analysis in the OAC group, there was a trend for higher cumulative incidences of stroke and major bleeding in the on-DAPT (n= 286) than in the off-DAPT (n= 173) groups (15.1% vs 6.7%, p= 0.052 and 14.7% vs 8.7%, p= 0.10, respectively). In conclusion, OAC was underused and its intensity was mostly suboptimal in real-world patients with AF undergoing PCI, which lead to inadequate stroke prevention. Long-term DAPT in patients receiving OAC did not reduce stroke incidence.

UI  - 24916911
TI  - Modification of outcomes with aspirin or apixaban in relation to female and male sex in patients with atrial fibrillation: a secondary analysis of the AVERROES study.
AB  - Female patients with atrial fibrillation had higher ischemic stroke rates compared with male patients, but the relative effects of apixaban compared with aspirin on both ischemic stroke and bleeding were similar in men and women.

UI  - 24908854
TI  - Retrospective costing of warfarin.
AB  - In Ireland, there are four anticoagulants available for prescribing to patients with atrial fibrillation for stroke prevention. A key feature of the three most recent anticoagulants is that monitoring is redundant. Despite this, there is continued prescribing of the incumbent anticoagulant, warfarin, which requires monitoring. Lack of information regarding the cost of monitoring, and the extra burden it places on health budgets and patients, motivated this costing study. Using micro costing, the costs of warfarin treatment (including monitoring) was disaggregated and isolated from both the patients' and health care provider's perspectives in a Cork hospital. Costs to the health care provider per patient per clinic visited were 21.57 Euros. Patient costs incurred per patient per clinic were 48.50 Euros. Thus, the total costs per patient per visit were 70.07 Euros. This result reveals that while the pharmaceutical cost of warfarin is low; it is not an inexpensive therapy when monitoring costs are considered.

UI  - 24890529
TI  - Adherence to dabigatran therapy and longitudinal patient outcomes: insights from the veterans health administration.
AB  - In the year after initiation, adherence to dabigatran for a majority of patients is very good. However, 28% of patients in our cohort had poor adherence. Furthermore, lower adherence to dabigatran was associated with increased adverse outcomes. Concerted efforts are needed to optimize adherence to NOACs.

UI  - 24882530
TI  - Predictors of advanced His-Purkinje conduction disturbances in patients with unexplained syncope and bundle branch block.
AB  - For patients presenting with syncope and BBB, first-degree atrioventricular block and LPFB increased the likelihood of finding HPCDs during EPS. However, no single electrocardiographic feature could consistently predict the outcome of EPS, so this investigation is still necessary in assessing the need for pacemaker implantation, irrespective of the precise appearance of abnormalities on ECG.

UI  - 24852915
TI  - Relation of T-wave alternans to mortality and nonsustained ventricular tachycardia in patients with non-ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndrome from the MERLIN-TIMI 36 trial of ranolazine versus placebo.
AB  - We explored the utility of T-wave alternans (TWA) in predicting mortality in patients with non-ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndrome (NSTEACS). Maximum TWA was calculated using Modified Moving Average method from continuous electrocardiographic recordings in patients with left ventricular ejection fraction <40% and ventricular tachycardia (VT) 4 beats during index hospitalization or sudden cardiac death during thefollow-up year and age- and sex-matched controls in the Metabolic Efficiency withRanolazine for Less Ischemia in Non-ST Elevation Acute Coronary Syndrome-Thrombolysis In Myocardial Infarction (MERLIN-TIMI) 36 trial. All patients received standard therapy for NSTEACS plus ranolazine (n= 109) or placebo (n= 101). Median follow-up was 1year. Baseline clinical characteristics did not differ between patients with elevated TWA (47V) compared with lower levels. Patients with TWA 47V at admission had increased risk of total mortality (adjusted odds ratio [ORadj] 2.35, p= 0.04) during follow-up and VT 4 beats (ORadj 2.70, p= 0.01) during hospitalization with a trend toward increased cardiovascular death risk (ORadj 2.18, p= 0.07) during follow-up. In patients receiving placebo, TWA 47V on day 6 was associated with increased risk of total mortality (OR 4.12, 95% confidence interval 1.25 to 13.64, p= 0.02) and cardiovascular death (OR 4.73, p= 0.01) during follow-up. No deaths occurred among patients with TWA 47V assigned to ranolazine. In conclusion, in patients with NSTEACS and left ventricular ejection fraction <40%, TWA 47V early after admission is associated with increased risk of mortality at 1year and with nonsustained VT during hospitalization. TWA may be useful in risk estimation in patients with NSTEACS. The possibility that TWA may serve as a therapeutic target deserves further exploration.

UI  - 24803841
TI  - Atrial fibrillation burden in Myotonic Dystrophy type 1 patients implanted with dual chamber pacemaker: the efficacy of the overdrive atrial algorithm at 2 year follow-up.
AB  - The role that atrial pacing therapy plays on the atrial fibrillation (AF) burden is still unclear. Aim of the study was to evaluate the effect of the atrial preference pacing algorithm on AF burden in patients affected by Myotonic Dystrophy type 1 (DM1) followed for a long follow up period. Sixty DM1 patients were -implanted with a dual chamber pacemaker (PM) for first degree or symptomatic type 1/type 2 second degree atrio-ventricular blocks- were followed for 2-years after implantation, by periodical examination. After 1 month of stabilization, they were randomized into two groups: 1) Patients implanted with conventional dual-chamber pacing mode (DDDR group) and 2) Patients implanted with DDDR plus Atrial Preference Pacing (APP) algorithm (APP ON group). The results showed that atrial tachycardia (AT)/AF burden was significantly reduced at 1 year follow up in the APP ON group (2122  428 minutes vs 4127  388 minutes, P = 0.03), with a further reduction at the end of the 2 year follow up period (4652  348 minutes vs 7564  638 minutes, P = 0.005). The data here reported show that the APP is an efficient algorithm to reduce AT/AF burden in DM1 patients implanted with dual chamber pacemaker.

UI  - 24794115
TI  - Rotor stability separates sustained ventricular fibrillation from self-terminating episodes in humans.
AB  - In patients with and without structural heart disease, the formation of stable rotors identifies individuals whose VF requires defibrillation from those in whom VF spontaneously self-terminates. Future work should define the mechanisms that stabilize rotors and evaluate whether rotor modulation may reduce subsequent VF risk.

UI  - 24793675
TI  - Performance of bleeding risk-prediction scores in patients with atrial fibrillation undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention.
AB  - The hypertension, abnormal renal/liver function, stroke, bleeding history or predisposition, labile international normalized ratio, elderly, and drugs/alcohol (HAS-BLED); anticoagulation and risk factors in atrial fibrillation (ATRIA); modified Outpatient Bleeding Risk Index (mOBRI); and reduction of atherothrombosis for continued health (REACH) schemes are validated bleeding risk-prediction tools, but their predictive performance in patients with AF receiving multiple antithrombotic drugs after percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) is unknown. We sought to compare the predictive performance of bleeding risk-estimation tools in a cohort of patients with atrial fibrillation (AF) undergoing PCI. Management of patients with AF undergoing coronary artery stenting is a multicenter European prospective registry enrolling patients with AF undergoing PCI. We calculated HAS-BLED, ATRIA, mOBRI, and REACH bleeding risk-prediction scores and assessed the rate of bleeding complications as defined by Bleeding Academic Research Consortium at 12 months follow-up in 929 consecutive patients undergoing PCI. Increasing age, femoral access site, and previous peptic ulcer were independent determinants of bleeding. Low bleeding risk scores as determined by HAS-BLED 0 to 2, ATRIA 0 to 3, mOBRI 0, and REACH 0 to 10 were detected in 23.7%, 73.0%, 7.8%, and 5.7% of patients of the cohort, respectively. No significant differences were detected in the rates of any bleeding or major bleeding events for low versus intermediate/high scores with each risk-prediction tool. In conclusion, the performance of ATRIA, HAS-BLED, mOBRI, and REACH scores in predicting bleeding complications in this high-risk patient subset was useless.

UI  - 24766985
TI  - Drivers of hospitalization for patients with atrial fibrillation: Results from the Outcomes Registry for Better Informed Treatment of Atrial Fibrillation (ORBIT-AF).
AB  - Hospitalization is common in outpatients with AF and is independently predicted by heart failure and AF symptoms. Improved symptom control, rate control, and comorbid condition management should be evaluated as strategies to reduce health care use in these patients.

UI  - 24766983
TI  - Circulating fibrosis biomarkers and risk of atrial fibrillation: The Cardiovascular Health Study (CHS).
AB  - In older adults, PIIINP levels were associated with risk of incident AF in a complex manner, with an association that appeared to be positive up to median levels but with little relationship beyond that. Further studies are required to confirm and possibly delineate the mechanism for this relationship.

UI  - 24766974
TI  - Resuscitation Outcomes Consortium-Amiodarone, Lidocaine or Placebo Study (ROC-ALPS): Rationale and methodology behind an out-of-hospital cardiac arrest antiarrhythmic drug trial.
AB  - Results from ALPS will provide important information about the choice and value of antiarrhythmic therapies for VF/VT arrest with direct implications for resuscitation guidelines and clinical practice.

UI  - 24766973
TI  - Rationale and design of the eXplore the efficacy and safety of once-daily oral riVaroxaban for the prEvention of caRdiovascular events in patients with nonvalvular aTrial fibrillation scheduled for cardioversion trial: A comparison of oral rivaroxaban once daily with dose-adjusted vitamin K antagonists in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation undergoing elective cardioversion.
AB  - This will be the first prospective study of a novel oral anticoagulant in the setting of cardioversion. It will provide important information regarding the use of rivaroxaban in the periods preceding and after cardioversion in a broad patient population.

UI  - 24763491
TI  - Resuscitated cardiac arrest and prognosis following myocardial infarction.
AB  - STEMI complicated by resuscitated CA merits careful monitoring in the early period postevent. In contemporary practice, there is no impact of resuscitated CA on longer-term prognosis.

UI  - 24757103
TI  - N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide and stroke risk: the reasons for geographic and racial differences in stroke cohort.
AB  - NT-proBNP was a major independent risk marker for stroke. Considering this and other data for stroke, coronary disease, and atrial fibrillation, the clinical use of NT-proBNP measurement in primary prevention settings should be considered.

UI  - 24755126
TI  - Warfarin compared with aspirin for older Chinese patients with stable coronary heart diseases and atrial fibrillation complications.
AB  - Warfarin was found to be more efficacious than aspirin for an anticoagulation therapy of older Chinese patients with AF and stable coronary heart disease.

UI  - 24749255
TI  - [Correction of hemodynamics and heart rate disorders in paitients with right coronary artery disease].
AB  - Infusion volume therapy should be used for correction of right ventricular failure and disturbances of atrio-ventricular conductivity in case of right ventricular failure absence.

UI  - 24747100
TI  - Unexpected deviation in circadian variation of ventricular arrhythmias: the SCD-HeFT (Sudden Cardiac Death in Heart Failure Trial).
AB  - In the SCD-HeFT (Sudden Cardiac Death in Heart Failure Trial) population, the distribution of life-threatening VA failed to show a typical early morning peak or increased VA events on Mondays. A typical early morning nadir was seen in the entire cohort. An increased rate of events on Mondays was found in the subgroup of subjects not on beta-blocker therapy. These findings may indicate suppression of the neurohormonal triggers for VA by current heart failure therapy, particularly the use of beta-blockers in heart failure.

UI  - 24744277
TI  - Transfer of patients with ST-elevation myocardial infarction for primary percutaneous coronary intervention: a province-wide evaluation of "door-in to door-out" delays at the first hospital.
AB  - Benchmark DIDO times for STEMI patients transferred for PPCI were rarely achieved. Interventions aimed at facilitating the transfer decision, particularly in cases of ECGs that are difficult to interpret, are likely to have the best impact on reducing delay to reperfusion.

UI  - 24744272
TI  - Periprocedural stroke and bleeding complications in patients undergoing catheter ablation of atrial fibrillation with different anticoagulation management: results from the Role of Coumadin in Preventing Thromboembolism in Atrial Fibrillation (AF) Patients Undergoing Catheter Ablation (COMPARE) randomized trial.
AB  - http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT01006876.

UI  - 24743444
TI  - Intracranial hemorrhage among patients with atrial fibrillation anticoagulated with warfarin or rivaroxaban: the rivaroxaban once daily, oral, direct factor Xa inhibition compared with vitamin K antagonism for prevention of stroke and embolism trial in atrial fibrillation.
AB  - Among patients with atrial fibrillation treated with anticoagulation, the risk of ICH was higher among Asians, blacks, the elderly, and in those with previous stroke or transient ischemic attack, increased diastolic blood pressure, and reduced platelet count or serum albumin at baseline. The risk of ICH was significantly lower in patients with heart failure and in those who were randomized to rivaroxaban instead of warfarin. The external validity of these findings requires testing in other atrial fibrillation populations.

UI  - 24736237
TI  - Assessing the performance of the Framingham Stroke Risk Score in the reasons for geographic and racial differences in stroke cohort.
AB  - Although higher FSRS was associated with higher stroke risk, the FSRS overestimated the observed stroke rates in this study, particularly in certain subgroups. This may be because of temporal declines in stroke rates, secular trends in prevention treatments, or differences in populations studied. More accurate estimates of event rates are critical for planning research, including clinical trials, and targeting health-care efforts.

UI  - 24717468
TI  - A comparison of severe hemodynamic disturbances between dexmedetomidine and propofol for sedation in neurocritical care patients.
AB  - Severe hypotension and bradycardia occur at similar prevalence in neurocritical care patients who receive dexmedetomidine or propofol. Providers should similarly consider the likelihood of hypotension or bradycardia before starting either sedative.

UI  - 24717382
TI  - High-dose cholinergic therapy with rivastigmine patch does not prolong QTc time in patients with Alzheimer's disease.
AB  - 

UI  - 24711481
TI  - Syncope in paced patients with sick sinus syndrome from the DANPACE trial: incidence, predictors and prognostic implication.
AB  - Syncope in paced patients with SSS is common, and is associated with higher mortality. The predictors identified in this study suggest a multifactorial aetiology of syncope.

UI  - 24698469
TI  - Analysis of emergency department visits for palpitations (from the National Hospital Ambulatory Medical Care Survey).
AB  - Palpitations is a common complaint in patients who visit the emergency department (ED), with causes ranging from benign to life threatening. We analyzed the ED component of the National Hospital Ambulatory Medical Care Survey for 2001 through 2010 for visits with a chief complaint of palpitations and calculated nationally representative weighted estimates for prevalence, demographic characteristics, and admission rates. ED and hospital discharge diagnoses were tabulated and categorized, and recursive partitioning was used to identify factors associated with admission. An estimated 684,000 visits had a primary reason for visit of "palpitations" representing a national prevalence of 5.8 per 1,000 ED visits (0.58%, 95% confidence interval 0.52 to 0.64). Women and non-Hispanic whites were responsible for most visits. A cardiac diagnosis made up 34% of all ED diagnoses. The overall admission rate was 24.6% (95% confidence interval 21.2 to 28.1), with higher rates seen in the Midwest and Northeast compared with the West. Survey-weighted recursive partitioning revealed several factors associated with admission including age >50 years, male gender, cardiac ED diagnosis, tachycardia, hypertension, and Medicare insurance. In conclusion, palpitations are responsible for a significant minority of ED visits and are associated with a cardiac diagnosis roughly 1/3 of the time. This was associated with a relatively high admission rate, although significant regional variation in these rates exists.

UI  - 24698463
TI  - Relation of interatrial block to new-onset atrial fibrillation in patients with Chagas cardiomyopathy and implantable cardioverter-defibrillators.
AB  - Chagas cardiomyopathy is an endemic disease in Latin America. A significant proportion of patients develop atrial fibrillation (AF), which may result in stroke and increased morbidity or mortality. Interatrial block (IAB) has been associated with the development of AF in different clinical scenarios. The aim of our study was to determine whether IAB can predict new-onset AF in patients with Chagas cardiomyopathy and implantable cardioverter-defibrillators (ICDs). We conducted a retrospective study of patients with Chagas cardiomyopathy and ICDs from 14 centers in Latin America. Demographics, clinical, and device follow-up were collected. Surface electrocardiograms were scanned at 300 dpi and maximized 8. Semiautomatic calipers were used to determine P-wave onset and offset. Partial IAB was defined as a P wave of >120 ms and advanced IAB as a P wave of >120 ms with biphasic morphology () in inferior leads. AF events and ICD therapies were reviewed during follow-up by 2 independent investigators. A total of 80 patients were analyzed. Mean age was 54.6  10.4 years, and 52 (65%) were male. Mean left ventricular ejection fraction was 40  12%. IAB was detected in 15 patients (18.8%), with 8 (10.0%) partial and 7 (8.8%) advanced. During a follow-up of 33  20 months, 11 patients (13.8%) presented with new AF. IAB (partial + advanced) was strongly associated with new AF (p <0.0001) and inappropriate therapy by the ICD (p = 0.014). In conclusion, IAB (partial + advanced) predicted new-onset AF in patients with Chagas cardiomyopathy and ICDs.

UI  - 24692475
TI  - Warfarin versus aspirin for prevention of cognitive decline in atrial fibrillation: randomized controlled trial (Birmingham Atrial Fibrillation Treatment of the Aged Study).
AB  - http://www.controlled-trials.com. Unique identifier: ISRCTN89345269.

UI  - 24682569
TI  - Ventricular rate monitoring as a tool to predict and prevent atrial fibrillation-related inappropriate shocks in heart failure patients treated with cardiac resynchronisation therapy defibrillators.
AB  - http://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT01007474.

UI  - 24682387
TI  - Lack of concordance between empirical scores and physician assessments of stroke and bleeding risk in atrial fibrillation: results from the Outcomes Registry for Better Informed Treatment of Atrial Fibrillation (ORBIT-AF) registry.
AB  - http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT01165710.

UI  - 24678999
TI  - Survival with cardiac-resynchronization therapy in mild heart failure.
AB  - Our findings indicate that in patients with mild heart-failure symptoms, left ventricular dysfunction, and left bundle-branch block, early intervention with CRT-D was associated with a significant long-term survival benefit. (Funded by Boston Scientific; ClinicalTrials.gov numbers, NCT00180271, NCT01294449, and NCT02060110.).

UI  - 24670418
TI  - The dialysis procedure as a trigger for atrial fibrillation: new insights in the development of atrial fibrillation in dialysis patients.
AB  - This study provides insight in the exact timing of AF onset in relation to the dialysis procedure itself. In HD patients, AF occurred significantly more often on a dialysis day and especially during HD. These findings might help to elucidate some aspects of the pathophysiology of AF in dialysis patients and could facilitate early detection of AF in these high-risk patients.

UI  - 24666620
TI  - Usefulness of a low CHADS2 or CHA2DS2-VASc score to predict normal diagnostic testing in emergency department patients with an acute exacerbation of previously diagnosed atrial fibrillation.
AB  - International guidelines do not specify what testing should be performed during emergency department (ED) evaluations for patients presenting with an exacerbation of previously diagnosed atrial fibrillation (AF). We hypothesized that low CHADS2 and CHA2DS2-VASc scores predict normal routine diagnostic testing in these patients. We conducted an analysis within a prospective observational cohort study at a university-affiliated hospital. We included patients with previously diagnosed AF and who presented to the ED primarily for an AF-related complaint. Logistic regression was used to analyze the association between CHADS2 and CHA2DS2-VASc scores and abnormal results for blood counts, electrolytes, cardiac markers, thyroid function, and chest x-rays. We included 216 patients in this analysis. The odds ratios (95% confidence interval) for each point increase in CHADS2 for abnormal blood counts, electrolytes, troponin I, brain natriuretic peptide, thyroid function, and chest x-ray were 1.28 (0.99 to 1.65), 1.48 (1.19 to 1.84), 1.42 (1.10 to 1.82), 1.66 (1.15 to 2.41), 0.95 (0.70 to 1.29), and 1.17 (0.94 to 1.44), respectively. The corresponding odds ratios (95% confidence interval) for each point increase in CHA2DS2-VASc were 1.17 (0.96 to 1.42), 1.27 (1.09 to 1.49), 1.30 (1.07 to 1.57), 1.57 (1.18 to 2.10), 0.98 (0.79 to 1.22), and 1.14 (0.97 to 1.33), respectively. Among ED patients with established AF who underwent evaluation for acutely symptomatic AF, nearly 3/4 of routine diagnostic tests return to normal. In conclusion, patients with CHADS2 or CHA2DS2-VASc score of 0 have the lowest likelihood of abnormal studies and may represent an easily identifiable group of patients who need fewer ED tests.

UI  - 24664277
TI  - Permanent leadless cardiac pacing: results of the LEADLESS trial.
AB  - http://clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT01700244.

UI  - 24657688
TI  - Association of electrocardiographic and imaging surrogates of left ventricular hypertrophy with incident atrial fibrillation: MESA (Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis).
AB  - In a multiethnic cohort of participants without clinically detected cardiovascular disease, both CMR and ECG-derived LVH were associated with incident AF. ECG-LVH showed prognostic signicance independent of CMR-LVH. The association was attenuated when adjusted for CMR left atrial volumes.

UI  - 24657685
TI  - Major bleeding in patients with atrial fibrillation receiving apixaban or warfarin: The ARISTOTLE Trial (Apixaban for Reduction in Stroke and Other Thromboembolic Events in Atrial Fibrillation): Predictors, Characteristics, and Clinical Outcomes.
AB  - Apixaban, compared with warfarin, was associated with fewer intracranial hemorrhages, less adverse consequences following extracranial hemorrhage, and a 50% reduction in fatal consequences at 30 days in cases of major hemorrhage.

UI  - 24655711
TI  - Physician practices regarding contraindications to oral anticoagulation in atrial fibrillation: findings from the Outcomes Registry for Better Informed Treatment of Atrial Fibrillation (ORBIT-AF) registry.
AB  - Contraindications to OAC therapy among patients with AF are common but subjective. Many patients with reported contraindications were receiving OAC, suggesting that the perceived benefit outweighed the potential harm posed by the relative contraindication.

UI  - 24655535
TI  - Tachycardia detection using smartphone applications in pediatric patients.
AB  - During tachycardia, neither of the 2 apps consistently determined an accurate heart rate at rates >200 bpm. The apps tested should not be considered an accurate tool for assessment of heart rates during SVT in pediatric patients. Select apps may have utility detecting slower SVT or confirming normal heart rates with further validation.

UI  - 24642467
TI  - Sympathetic activity-associated periodic repolarization dynamics predict mortality following myocardial infarction.
AB  - This study was funded by Angewandte Klinische Forschung, University of Tbingen (252-1-0).

UI  - 24635770
TI  - High versus low blood-pressure target in patients with septic shock.
AB  - Targeting a mean arterial pressure of 80 to 85 mm Hg, as compared with 65 to 70 mm Hg, in patients with septic shock undergoing resuscitation did not result in significant differences in mortality at either 28 or 90 days. (Funded by the French Ministry of Health; SEPSISPAM ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT01149278.).

UI  - 24633881
TI  - Temporal relationship between subclinical atrial fibrillation and embolic events.
AB  - http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00256152.

UI  - 24632280
TI  - Ablation of rotor and focal sources reduces late recurrence of atrial fibrillation compared with trigger ablation alone: extended follow-up of the CONFIRM trial (Conventional Ablation for Atrial Fibrillation With or Without Focal Impulse and Rotor Modulation).
AB  - FIRM-guided ablation is more durable than conventional trigger-based ablation in preventing 3-year AF recurrence. Future studies should investigate how ablation of patient-specific AF-sustaining rotors and focal sources alters the natural history of arrhythmia recurrence. (The Dynamics of Human Atrial Fibrillation; NCT01008722).

UI  - 24630387
TI  - Effect of echocardiography-guided left ventricular lead placement for cardiac resynchronization therapy on mortality and risk of defibrillator therapy for ventricular arrhythmias in heart failure patients (from the Speckle Tracking Assisted Resynchronization Therapy for Electrode Region [STARTER] trial).
AB  - Echocardiography-guided left ventricular (LV) lead placement at the site of latest mechanical activation improves heart failure outcomes in patients receiving a cardiac resynchronization therapy defibrillator (CRT-D). In this study, we test the hypothesis that a strategy of echocardiography-guided LV lead placement improves patient survival rate free from appropriate CRT-D therapy for ventricular arrhythmias. Patients enrolled in the prospective, randomized Speckle Tracking Assisted Resynchronization Therapy for Electrode Region trial and treated with a CRT-D device (108 with the echo-guided strategy and 75 with the routine strategy) were followed to the end point of death or first appropriate CRT-D therapy. Over a follow-up period of 3.7  2.1years, 62 patients (33%) died and 40(22%) received appropriate CRT-D therapy. Compared with the routine group, patients in the echo-guided group had improved CRT-D therapy-free survival rate (hazard ratio= 0.64, 95% confidence interval= 0.42 to 0.98, p= 0.038). Patients randomized to the echo-guided LV lead placement were more likely to resynchronize their LV compared with the routine group (72% vs 48%, respectively, p= 0.006). Patients whose LV did resynchronize after CRT-D had improved therapy-free survival rate compared with those whose LV did not resynchronize (hazard ratio= 0.49, 95% confidence interval= 0.28 to 0.86, p= 0.012). In conclusion, a strategy of echo-guided LV lead placement improved the patient survival rate free from defibrillator therapy in CRT-D recipients.

UI  - 24595776
TI  - Warfarin, kidney dysfunction, and outcomes following acute myocardial infarction in patients with atrial fibrillation.
AB  - Warfarin treatment was associated with a lower 1-year risk for the composite outcome of death, MI, and ischemic stroke without a higher risk of bleeding in consecutive acute MI patients with atrial fibrillation. This association was not related to the severity of concurrent CKD.

UI  - 24583299
TI  - Safety of computed tomography in patients with cardiac rhythm management devices: assessment of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration advisory in clinical practice.
AB  - The findings suggest that the presence of CRM devices should not delay or result in cancellation of clinically indicated CT imaging procedures, and provide evidence that would be helpful when the FDA advisory is re-evaluated.

UI  - 24579432
TI  - Transcatheter left atrial appendage closure for stroke prevention in atrial fibrillation with Amplatzer cardiac plug: the Belgian Registry.
AB  - The Belgian registry shows that LAA closure using the ACP device is feasible and safe. At 1-y follow-up, the observed stroke rate was 2.14%/year, less than predicted by the CHA2DS2-VASc score. Longer follow-up is needed to evaluate the long-term safety and its efficacy in reducing stroke.

UI  - 24576522
TI  - Associations between atrial fibrillation and early outcomes of patients with heart failure and reduced or preserved ejection fraction.
AB  - Atrial fibrillation was associated with higher 30-day mortality among patients with heart failure with preserved EF but not reduced EF. The association of atrial fibrillation with 30-day readmission was modest and did not differ by heart failure type.

UI  - 24576516
TI  - Design and rationale of Global Registry on Long-Term Oral Antithrombotic Treatment in Patients with Atrial Fibrillation: a global registry program on long-term oral antithrombotic treatment in patients with atrial fibrillation.
AB  - Novel features of this registry program will add data from clinical practice to those from randomized trials to expand knowledge of antithrombotic treatment in patients with AF.

UI  - 24575644
TI  - [Analysis of P wave duration and dispersion in paroxysmal atrial fibrillation].
AB  - In AF patients, P wave duration and P wave dispersion, in other words atrial depolarization/repolarization inhomogeneity, were increased. A significant positive correlation between P wave dispersion and both Pmax and left atrium size were found.

UI  - 24559419
TI  - Cardiac arrhythmias the first month after acute traumatic spinal cord injury.
AB  - Many patients with cervical SCI experience arrhythmias such as bradycardia, sinus node arrest, supraventricular tachycardia, and more rarely cardiac arrest the first month after SCI. Apart from sinus node arrests and limited bradycardia, no arrhythmias were seen in patients with thoracic SCI. Standard 12-lead ECGs will often miss the high prevalence these arrhythmias have.

UI  - 24552831
TI  - Outcomes of temporary interruption of rivaroxaban compared with warfarin in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation: results from the rivaroxaban once daily, oral, direct factor Xa inhibition compared with vitamin K antagonism for prevention of stroke and embolism trial in atrial fibrillation (ROCKET AF).
AB  - http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00403767.

UI  - 24549549
TI  - Radiofrequency ablation vs antiarrhythmic drugs as first-line treatment of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation (RAAFT-2): a randomized trial.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00392054.

UI  - 24549548
TI  - Effect of citalopram on agitation in Alzheimer disease: the CitAD randomized clinical trial.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00898807.

UI  - 24532564
TI  - Percutaneous left ventricular assist devices in ventricular tachycardia ablation: multicenter experience.
AB  - Impella and TandemHeart use in VT ablation facilitates extensive activation mapping of several unstable VTs and requires fewer rescue shocks during the procedure when compared with using IABP.

UI  - 24530792
TI  - Bleeding events among new starters and switchers to dabigatran compared with warfarin in atrial fibrillation.
AB  - VKA-nave warfarin initiators had the highest overall bleeding rate. We found no evidence of marked excess of overall bleeding events when comparing dabigatran with warfarin users, irrespective of prior VKA experience.

UI  - 24523413
TI  - Radiofrequency ablation versus antiarrhythmic medication for treatment of ventricular premature beats from the right ventricular outflow tract: prospective randomized study.
AB  - Catheter ablation is more efficacious than AADs for preventing VPB recurrence in patients with frequent VPBs originating from the RVOT. QS morphology in lead I was associated with better outcome after ablation.

UI  - 24519888
TI  - Effects of sex on the incidence of cardiac tamponade after catheter ablation of atrial fibrillation: results from a worldwide survey in 34 943 atrial fibrillation ablation procedures.
AB  - Tamponade during AF ablation procedures is relatively rare. Women have an 2-fold higher risk for developing this complication. The risk of tamponade among women decreases substantially in high-volume centers. Surgical backup and acute management skills for treating tamponade are important in centers performing AF ablation.

UI  - 24515411
TI  - Different prognostic value of functional right ventricular parameters in arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy/dysplasia.
AB  - This long-term observational study indicates that TAPSE and dilation of right-sided cardiac chambers are associated with an increased risk for MACE in patients with ARVC/D with advanced disease and a high risk for adverse events. However, FAC is the strongest echocardiographic predictor of adverse outcome in these patients. Our data advocate a role for transthoracic echocardiography in risk stratification in patients with ARVC/D, although our results may not be generalizable to lower-risk ARVC/D cohorts.

UI  - 24507169
TI  - Association of CHADS2, CHA2DS2-VASc, and R2CHADS2 scores with left atrial dysfunction in patients with coronary heart disease (from the Heart and Soul study).
AB  - The predictive ability of the CHADS2 index to stratify stroke risk may be mechanistically linked to severity of left atrial (LA) dysfunction. This study investigated the association between the CHADS2 score and LA function. We performed resting transthoracic echocardiography in 970 patients with stable coronary heart disease and normal ejection fraction and calculated baseline LA functional index (LAFI) using a validated formula: (LA emptying fractionleft ventricular outflow tract velocity time integral)/LA end-systolic volume indexed to body surface area. We performed regression analyses to evaluate the association between risk scores and LAFI. Among 970 subjects, mean CHADS2 was 1.71.2. Mean LAFI decreased across tertiles of CHADS2 (42.818.1, 37.819.1, 36.719.4, p<0.001). After adjustment for age, sex, race, systolic blood pressure, hyperlipidemia, myocardial infarction, revascularization, body mass index, smoking, and alcohol use, high CHADS2 remained associated with the lowest quartile of LAFI (odds ratio 2.34, p=0.001). In multivariable analysis of component co-morbidities, heart failure, age, and creatinine clearance<60 ml/min were strongly associated with LA dysfunction. For every point increase in CHADS2, the LAFI decreased by 4.0%. Secondary analyses using CHA2DS2-VASc and R2CHADS2 scores replicated these results. Findings were consistent when excluding patients with baseline atrial fibrillation. In conclusion, CHADS2, CHA2DS2-VASc, and R2CHADS2 scores are associated with LA dysfunction, even in patients without baseline atrial fibrillation. These findings merit further study to determine the role of LA dysfunction in cardioembolic stroke and the value of LAFI for risk stratification.

UI  - 24507168
TI  - Outcomes in atrial fibrillation patients with and without left ventricular hypertrophy when treated with a lenient rate-control or rhythm-control strategy.
AB  - Although left ventricular (LV) hypertrophy has been proposed as a factor predisposing to atrial fibrillation (AF), its relevance to prognosis and selection of therapeutic strategies is unclear. We identified 2,105 patients with echocardiographic data on LV mass enrolled in the Atrial Fibrillation Follow-up Investigation of Rhythm Management (AFFIRM) trial. LV hypertrophy was defined as increased LV mass, stratified by American Society of Echocardiography criteria. The primary end point was all-cause mortality, secondary end point was as per AFFIRM trial definition, and tertiary end point was cardiovascular hospitalizations. We compared "strict" versus "lenient" rate control in patients with increased LV mass, and studied association of heart failure (HF) with preserved and decreased systolic function in patients with increased LV mass. Over 6 years, 332 deaths (15.7%) were reported. Adjusted hazard ratio (HR) of severely increased LV mass for all-cause mortality was 1.34 (95% confidence interval [CI] 1.01 to 1.79, p=0.045) for the overall population and 1.61 (95% CI 1.09 to 2.37, p=0.016) for the rhythm-control arm. Increased LV mass was a predictor of cardiovascular hospitalizations in the lenient rate-control group (HR 1.72, 95% CI 1.05 to 2.82, p=0.03) but not in the strict rate-control group. Severely increased LV mass was predictive of cardiovascular hospitalizations in patients with HF with preserved (HR 1.8, 95% CI 1.0 to 3.2, p=0.03) and decreased LV systolic function (HR 2.4, 95% CI 1.1 to 5.2, p=0.02). Thus, LV hypertrophy is a significant independent predictor of mortality in patients with AF, especially those managed with rhythm control. In patients with LV hypertrophy, strict rate control may be associated with better outcomes than lenient rate control. LV hypertrophy portends higher cardiovascular morbidity in patients with AF and HF.

UI  - 24506965
TI  - [Preventive effect of low-dose carvedilol combined with candesartan on the cardiotoxicity of anthracycline drugs in the adjuvant chemotherapy of breast cancer].
AB  - The use of low-dose carvedilol combined with candesartan can reduce the acute and chronic cardiotoxicity of anthracycline drugs, and with tolerable toxicities. This may provide a new approach to prevent cardiotoxicity of anthracycline drugs in adjuvant chemotherapy of breast cancer.

UI  - 24496537
TI  - Association of atrial tissue fibrosis identified by delayed enhancement MRI and atrial fibrillation catheter ablation: the DECAAF study.
AB  - Among patients with AF undergoing catheter ablation, atrial tissue fibrosis estimated by delayed enhancement MRI was independently associated with likelihood of recurrent arrhythmia. The clinical implications of this association warrant further investigation.

UI  - 24488978
TI  - Electrophysiologic profile and results of invasive risk stratification in asymptomatic children and adolescents with the Wolff-Parkinson-White electrocardiographic pattern.
AB  - Adverse AP properties at baseline were exhibited by 37.6% of the evaluated patients with an asymptomatic Wolff-Parkinson-White preexcitation persisting at peak exercise. Isoproterenol challenge yielded additional 36.4% of those tested at higher risk. Ablation was performed in a total of 69.4% of patients subjected to invasive risk stratification.

UI  - 24488608
TI  - Aspirin versus vitamin K antagonist treatment guided by transoesophageal echocardiography in patients with atrial fibrillation: a pilot study.
AB  - This hypothesis-generating pilot trial has found that TEE may be used for refinement of stroke risk in paroxysmal atrial fibrillation patients. A larger trial is needed to confirm these data. (ClinicalTrials.gov number NTC00224757).

UI  - 24486264
TI  - New-onset atrial fibrillation after aortic valve replacement: comparison of transfemoral, transapical, transaortic, and surgical approaches.
AB  - AF was a common complication of AVR with a cumulative incidence of >40% in elderly patients with degenerative AS who underwent either SAVR or TAVR. AF was most common with SAVR and least common with TF-TAVR. Procedures without pericardiotomy were associated with a lower incidence of AF.

UI  - 24470482
TI  - Antiplatelet therapy for stable coronary artery disease in atrial fibrillation patients taking an oral anticoagulant: a nationwide cohort study.
AB  - In atrial fibrillation patients with stable coronary artery disease, the addition of antiplatelet therapy to VKA therapy is not associated with a reduction in risk of recurrent coronary events or thromboembolism, whereas risk of bleeding is increased significantly. The common practice of adding antiplatelet therapy to oral VKA anticoagulation in patients with atrial fibrillation and stable coronary artery disease warrants reassessment.

UI  - 24461924
TI  - Managing novel oral anticoagulants in patients with atrial fibrillation undergoing device surgery: Canadian survey.
AB  - Most Canadian centres perform device implantation with NOAC interruption without the use of bridging. The timing of stopping and restarting anticoagulation and incidence of bleeding complications is variable. These findings emphasize the need for randomized controlled studies to guide the optimal approach to management of NOACs during device implantation.

UI  - 24461771
TI  - Impact of gender on the prognosis of patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation.
AB  - Treatment guidelines for atrial fibrillation (AF) used in Western countries describe female gender as a risk factor for thromboembolic events in patients with nonvalvular AF (NVAF). The present study aimed to determine the impact of gender on prognosis of Japanese patients with NVAF. A subanalysis of 7,406 patients with NVAF (mean age 70 years) who were followed-up prospectively for 2 years was performed using data from the J-RHYTHM registry. The primary end points were thromboembolic events, major hemorrhaging, total mortality, and cardiovascular mortality. Compared with male subjects (n = 5,241), female subjects (n = 2,165) were older and displayed greater prevalences of paroxysmal AF, heart failure, and hypertension but less prevalences of diabetes, previous cerebral infarction, and coronary artery disease. Male and female patients had mean CHADS2 (Congestive heart failure, Hypertension, Age of 75 years or more, Diabetes mellitus and prior Stroke or transient ischemic attack) scores of 1.6 and 1.8, respectively (p <0.001). Warfarin was given to 87% of male patients and 86% of female patients (p = 0.760), and the 2 genders displayed similar mean international normalized ratio of prothrombin time values at baseline (1.91 vs 1.90, respectively, p = 0.756). Multivariate logistic regression analysis indicated that male gender was an independent risk factor for major hemorrhaging (odds ratio 1.59, 95% confidence interval 1.05 to 2.40, p = 0.027) and all-cause mortality (odds ratio 1.78, 95% confidence interval 1.25 to 2.55, p <0.002) but not for thromboembolic events (odds ratio 1.24, 95% confidence interval 0.83 to 1.86, p = 0.297) or cardiovascular mortality (odds ratio 0.96, 95% confidence interval 0.56 to 1.66, p = 0.893). In conclusion, female gender is not a risk factor for thromboembolic events among Japanese patients with NVAF who were treated mostly with warfarin. However, male gender is a risk factor for major hemorrhaging and all-cause mortality.

UI  - 24446022
TI  - Incidence and significance of early recurrences of atrial fibrillation after cryoballoon ablation: insights from the multicenter Sustained Treatment of Paroxysmal Atrial Fibrillation (STOP AF) Trial.
AB  - ERAF after cryoballoon ablation occurs in 50% of patients and is strongly associated with LR. Early reablation for ERAF is associated with excellent long-term freedom from recurrent AF.

UI  - 24440330
TI  - Comparison of the safety and feasibility of arrhythmia ablation using the Amigo Robotic Remote Catheter System versus manual ablation.
AB  - The aim of this study is to evaluate the safety and feasibility of using the Amigo Remote Catheter System (RCS) in arrhythmia ablation procedures. Because Amigo allows the physician to operate all catheter function outside of the radiation field, operator exposure time was also evaluated. This is a nonrandomized, prospective clinical trial conducted at 1 site (identifier: NCT01834872). The study prospectively enrolled 50 consecutive patients (mean age 59  15 years, 72% men) with any type of arrhythmia (23 atrial fibrillation ablation, 12 common atrial flutters, 10 patients with other supraventricular tachycardia, 4 ventricular tachycardia, and 1 patient with palpitations with no arrhythmia induced) referred for catheter ablation, in which we used RCS. Fifty matched ablation procedures (mean age 57  14 years, 70% men) performed during the same time period, without RCS, were enrolled into the control group. Acute ablation success was 96% with RCS and 98% in the manual group. In only 2 cases, the physician switched to manual ablation (1 ventricular tachycardia and 1 accessory pathway) to complete the procedure. There were no complications related to the use of RCS. No differences were observed in total procedure time, total fluoroscopy time, or total radiofrequency delivery compared with the manual group. In procedures performed with RCS, the operator's fluoroscopy exposure time was reduced by 68  16%. In conclusion, arrhythmia ablation with RCS is safe and feasible. Furthermore, it significantly reduces operator's exposure to radiation.

UI  - 24440329
TI  - Usefulness of right ventricular dysfunction to predict new-onset atrial fibrillation following coronary artery bypass grafting.
AB  - Postoperative atrial fibrillation (AF) is a serious yet common complication after coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) surgery. Risk factors for postoperative AF have been identified, including echocardiographic parameters, and these are relied on to implement preventative strategies that reduce the incidence of AF. There has yet to be a study examining the impact of echocardiographic right-sided cardiac parameters on the prediction of postoperative AF. Thus, a panel of right-sided cardiac parameters was measured in a cohort of patients undergoing isolated CABG surgery, excluding those who did not have echocardiographic assessment within 30 days before surgery and those with any history of AF. The primary outcome was postoperative AF defined as any episode of AF requiring treatment during the index hospitalization. Postoperative AF occurred in 197 of 768 patients (25.6%); these were older and more likely to have hypertension and chronic kidney disease. After adjustment for clinical and echocardiographic variables, left atrial volume index 34 ml/m(2) (odds ratio [OR] 1.98, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.36 to 2.87), abnormal right ventricular myocardial performance index (OR 1.50, 95% CI 1.01 to 2.24), and advancing age (OR 1.05, 95% CI 1.03 to 1.07) were found to be independent predictors of postoperative AF. In conclusion, right ventricular myocardial performance index is a novel predictor of postoperative AF in patients undergoing isolated CABG surgery and appears to be additive to established risk factors such as age and left atrial volume.

UI  - 24440327
TI  - Effect of digoxin on shocks in cardiac resynchronization therapy-defibrillator patients with coronary artery disease.
AB  - Digoxin provides symptomatic relief in patients with systolic heart failure, yet it has potential proarrhythmic mechanisms and has not been formally studied in patients with cardiac resynchronization therapy-defibrillators (CRT-Ds). We evaluated the association between digoxin use and appropriate tachyarrhythmia therapy in patients with CRT-D with advanced heart failure, analyzing the incidence of appropriate device therapies and overall survival in 350 consecutive primary prevention recipients with CRT-D with baseline left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) 35%, non-right bundle-branch block native QRS complex 120 ms, New York Heart Association III to IV heart failure, and significant coronary artery disease. Digoxin was prescribed in 162 patients (46%) at discharge from CRT-D implant. Over 48  32 months of follow-up, 59 patients (17%) received 1 appropriate shock. Digoxin therapy was associated with shorter time to first shock in intention-to-treat (corrected hazard ratio 2.18, 95% confidence interval 1.23 to 3.87, p = 0.007) and on-treatment analysis (corrected hazard ratio 2.27, 95% confidence interval 1.27 to 4.07, p = 0.006). Patients prescribed digoxin had a lower baseline LVEF, and digoxin therapy was associated with increased risk of shocks only in patients with LVEF <22% (median); there was no increased risk in patients with LVEF 22%. Overall survival and incidence of antitachycardia pacing were similar regardless of digoxin therapy. In conclusion, digoxin therapy is associated with increased likelihood of appropriate CRT-D shocks for rapid ventricular arrhythmias in primary prevention patients with coronary artery disease, and this risk appears to be most evident in patients with more severe baseline LV dysfunction. Digoxin use should be reexamined prospectively in patients with CRT-D.

UI  - 24430095
TI  - Pacing-associated left ventricular dysfunction? Think reprogramming first!
AB  - Programming standard pacemakers to avoid RV pacing is safe, does not adversely affect patients' symptoms or quality of life and is associated with improved LV function, related to the reductions in RV pacing percentage.

UI  - 24425420
TI  - Selective complex fractionated atrial electrograms targeting for atrial fibrillation study (SELECT AF): a multicenter, randomized trial.
AB  - Continuous electric activity ablation+PVI result in a similar incidence of acute AF termination with significantly less radiofrequency time. However, incidence of repeat procedures and long-term recurrence of AF/atrial flutter/atrial tachycardia are significantly lower using generalized CFAE ablation+PVI. Clinical Trial Registration- URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00926783.

UI  - 24423419
TI  - A comparison of fospropofol to midazolam for moderate sedation during outpatient dental procedures.
AB  - Moderate intravenous (IV) sedation combined with local anesthesia is common for outpatient oral surgery procedures. An ideal sedative agent must be safe and well tolerated by patients and practitioners. This study evaluated fospropofol, a relatively new sedative/hypnotic, in comparison to midazolam, a commonly used benzodiazepine, for IV moderate sedation during oral and maxillofacial surgery. Sixty patients were randomly assigned to either the fospropofol or the midazolam group. Each participant received 1 g/kg of fentanyl prior to administration of the selected sedative. Those in the fospropofol group received an initial dose of 6.5 mg/kg, with 1.6 mg/kg supplemental doses as needed. Those in the midazolam group received initial doses of 0.05 mg/kg, followed by 0.02 mg/kg supplemental doses. The quality of sedation in each patient was evaluated with regard to (a) onset of sedation, maintenance, and recovery profile; (b) patient and surgeon satisfaction; and (c) hemodynamic stability and adverse effects. The fospropofol group demonstrated shorter physical recovery times than midazolam patients, taking a mean of 11.6 minutes versus 18.4 minutes for physical recovery (P = .007). Cognitive recovery comparison did not find any difference with a mean of 7.5 minutes versus 8.8 minutes between the 2 drug groups (P = .123). The fospropofol group had a higher rate of local anesthetic injection recall (90.5 vs 44.4%, P = .004). Other parameters of recall were comparable. Two adverse effects demonstrated significance, with more patients in the midazolam group experiencing tachycardia (48.2 vs 9.4%, P = .001), and more patients in the fospropofol group experiencing perineal discomfort (40.6 vs 0, P < .001). No significant difference was found in any other measures of sedation safety, maintenance, or satisfaction. Fospropofol, when administered intravenously by a dentist anesthesiologist at the indicated dose in this study, appears to be a safe, well-tolerated alternative to midazolam for intravenous moderate sedation during minor oral surgery procedures.

UI  - 24412445
TI  - Feasibility and safety of uninterrupted rivaroxaban for periprocedural anticoagulation in patients undergoing radiofrequency ablation for atrial fibrillation: results from a multicenter prospective registry.
AB  - Uninterrupted rivaroxaban therapy appears to be as safe and efficacious in preventing bleeding and thromboembolic events in patients undergoing AF ablation as uninterrupted warfarin therapy.

UI  - 24392822
TI  - Electrocardiography in 110 patients with systemic sclerosis: a cross-sectional comparison with population-based controls.
AB  - Although ECGs are inexpensive, commonly available screening tools, to detect arrhythmias, such as frequent ventricular extrasystoles (VES), Holter tracings should be performed. The frequencies of AV and/or IV conduction abnormalities and septal Q waves/low R waves have not changed since 1985. The unmet need of anti-fibrotic treatment in SSc is underscored by these findings.

UI  - 24382410
TI  - A randomized controlled trial of catheter ablation versus medical treatment of atrial fibrillation in heart failure (the CAMTAF trial).
AB  - Catheter ablation is effective in restoring sinus rhythm in selected patients with persistent AF and HF, and can improve LV function, functional capacity, and HF symptoms compared with rate control. Clinical Trial Registration- URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT01411371.

UI  - 24364091
TI  - [Atrial fibrillation in medical intensive care unit patients: characteristics and consequences].
AB  - The development of AF is more prevalent in patients with PAF. Development of AF was not found to be an independent mortality risk factor.

UI  - 24364085
TI  - Levosimendan use decreases atrial fibrillation in patients after coronary artery bypass grafting: a pilot study.
AB  - The incidence of postoperative AF in the levosimendan group was reduced significantly in patients with poor left ventricle function after CABG operations.

UI  - 24363354
TI  - Atrial fibrillation ablation outcome is predicted by left atrial remodeling on MRI.
AB  - Atrial SRM is identified on LGE-MRI, and extensive LGE (30% LA wall enhancement) predicts poor response to catheter ablation therapy for AF.

UI  - 24359765
TI  - Prognostic usefulness of left ventricular hypertrophy by electrocardiography in patients with atrial fibrillation (from the Randomized Evaluation of Long-Term Anticoagulant Therapy Study).
AB  - It is unknown whether left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) diagnosis by electrocardiography improves risk stratification in patients with atrial fibrillation (AF). We investigated the prognostic impact of LVH diagnosis by electrocardiography in a large sample of anticoagulated patients with AF included in the Randomized Evaluation of Long-Term Anticoagulant Therapy (RE-LY) Study. We defined electrographic LVH (ECG-LVH) by strain pattern or Cornell voltage (R wave in aVL plus S wave in V3) >2.0 mV (women) or >2.4 mV (men). LVH prevalence was 22.7%. During a median follow-up of 2.0 years, 303 patients developed a stroke, 778 died (497 from cardiovascular causes), and 140 developed a myocardial infarction. LVH was associated with a greater risk of stroke (1.99% vs 1.32% per year, hazard ratio [HR] 1.51, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.18 to 1.93, p <0.001), cardiovascular death (4.52% vs 1.80% per year, HR 2.56, 95% CI 2.14 to 3.06, p <0.0001), all-cause death (6.03% vs 3.11% per year, HR 1.95, 95% CI 1.68 to 2.26, p <0.0001), and myocardial infarction (1.11% vs 0.55% per year, HR 2.07, 95% CI 1.47 to 2.92, p <0.0001). In multivariate analysis, the prognostic value of LVH was additive to CHA2DS2-VASc score and other covariates. The category-free net reclassification index and integrated discrimination improvement increased significantly after adding LVH to multivariate models. In conclusion, our study demonstrates for the first time that ECG-LVH, a simple and easily accessible prognostic indicator, improves risk stratification in anticoagulated patients with AF.

UI  - 24359544
TI  - Evaluation of current algorithms for segmentation of scar tissue from late gadolinium enhancement cardiovascular magnetic resonance of the left atrium: an open-access grand challenge.
AB  - The study concludes that currently no algorithm is deemed clearly better than others. There is scope for further algorithmic developments in LA fibrosis and scar quantification from LGE CMR images. Benchmarking of future scar segmentation algorithms is thus important. The proposed benchmarking framework is made available as open-source and new participants can evaluate their algorithms via a web-based interface.

UI  - 24357434
TI  - Clinical predictors of long-term outcomes in patients with critical limb ischemia who have undergone endovascular therapy.
AB  - Clinical predictors of long-term outcomes in patients with critical limb ischemia (CLI) treated with endovascular therapy (EVT) remain unclear. In this study, clinical predictors of long-term outcomes in EVT-treated patients with CLI were investigated. In this prospective, observational study, we analyzed a total of 253 Taiwanese patients with CLI with 314 limbs who underwent EVT between 2005 and 2012. Cox models were used to estimate hazard ratios of death, limb loss, and sustained clinical success (SCS). Multivariate analysis showed that age, atrial fibrillation (AF), end-stage renal disease (ESRD), and albumin were significant predictors of mortality. Patients with coronary artery disease and low albumin levels had a significant risk of major limb amputation, while AF, ESRD, and albumin were significant, independent predictors of SCS. In addition to previously reported predictors, we showed that AF and malnutrition can be used to predict long-term outcome in EVT-treated patients with CLI.

UI  - 24344325
TI  - Remote monitoring of cardiac implantable electronic devices in Europe: results of the European Heart Rhythm Association survey.
AB  - The aim of this European Heart Rhythm Association survey was to provide an insight into the current use of remote monitoring for cardiac implantable electronic devices in Europe. The following topics were explored: use of remote monitoring, infrastructure and organization, patient selection and benefits. Centres using remote monitoring reported performing face-to-face visits less frequently. In many centres (56.9%), a nurse reviews all the data and forwards them to the responsible physician. The majority of the centres (91.4%) stated that remote monitoring is best used in patients with implantable cardioverter-defibrillators and those live far from the hospital (76.6% top benefit). Supraventricular and ventricular arrhythmias were reported to be the major events detected earlier by remote monitoring. Remote monitoring will have a significant impact on device management.

UI  - 24344084
TI  - Airflow obstruction, lung function, and incidence of atrial fibrillation: the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities (ARIC) study.
AB  - In this large population-based study with a long-term follow-up, reduced FEV1 and obstructive respiratory disease were associated with a higher AF incidence after adjustment for measured confounders.

UI  - 24342396
TI  - Effect of lifetime endurance training on left atrial mechanical function and on the risk of atrial fibrillation.
AB  - The LA anatomical and electrical remodeling does not have a negative impact on atrial mechanical function. Hence, a possible link between these risk factors for AF and its actual, rare occurrence in this athlete population, could not be uncovered in the present study.

UI  - 24341049
TI  - Glucosa-Insulin-Potassium (GIK) solution used with diabetic patients provides better recovery after coronary bypass operations.
AB  - Intraoperative GIK solution given to diabetic patients with CABG operation provides more stable CI, shorter time of MV, more stable values of potassium which provides normal rhythm and less AF onset, less insulin to maintain target glycemia. All the above mentioned provides more stable intraoperative hemodynamic and better recovery of diabetic

UI  - 24333490
TI  - The effect of intermittent atrial tachyarrhythmia on heart failure or death in cardiac resynchronization therapy with defibrillator versus implantable cardioverter-defibrillator patients: a MADIT-CRT substudy (Multicenter Automatic Defibrillator Implantation Trial With Cardiac Resynchronization Therapy).
AB  - In the MADIT-CRT study, the clinical benefit of CRT-D in LBBB patients was not attenuated by prior history of IAT or by the development of in-trial atrial tachyarrhythmias. (MADIT-CRT: Multicenter Automatic Defibrillator Implantation Trial With Cardiac Resynchronization Therapy; NCT00180271).

UI  - 24332698
TI  - Overtreatment and undertreatment with anticoagulation in relation to cardioversion of atrial fibrillation (the RHYTHM-AF study).
AB  - Antithrombotic therapy is central to the management of atrial fibrillation. This analysis from the RHYTHM-atrial fibrillation (RHYTHM-AF) registry explored the appropriateness of antithrombotic therapy in relation to stroke risk and atrial fibrillation duration in patients with atrial fibrillation. RHYTHM-AF, a prospective multinational registry, enrolled consecutive adult patients with atrial fibrillation considered for cardioversion. We compared the type of antithrombotic therapy administered at the time of cardioversion and at discharge with stroke risk ("high stroke risk" defined by CHA2DS2-VASc >1) and duration of atrial fibrillation (48 vs >48 hours or unknown duration). Of 2,972 patients who were cardioverted (34.5% through pharmacologic cardioversion [PCV] and 65.5% through electrical cardioversion [ECV]), 65% were at high risk of stroke and 30% presented with atrial fibrillation of >48-hour or unknown duration. At the time of PCV and ECV, 36% (n = 242) and 84% (n = 1,075) of high-risk patients, respectively, were taking vitamin K antagonists or heparin. At discharge, these rates increased to 62% (n = 414) and 93% (n = 1,191), respectively. Of all low-stroke risk patients with short-duration atrial fibrillation undergoing PCV (n = 260) and ECV (n = 111), 7% (n = 17) and 30% (n = 33), respectively, were taking vitamin K antagonists or heparin at the time of cardioversion. At discharge, these rates increased to 19% (n = 50) and 40% (n = 44), respectively. In conclusion, ECV was frequently performed under appropriate antithrombotic therapy for most high-risk patients with atrial fibrillation, whereas PCV was frequently performed without appropriate antithrombotic therapy. To enhance pericardioversion stroke prevention, cardioversion algorithms should focus less on the type of conversion and more on stroke risk factors and atrial fibrillation duration.

UI  - 24332245
TI  - In-hospital arrhythmia development and outcomes in pediatric patients with acute myocarditis.
AB  - Cardiac arrhythmias are a complication of myocarditis. There are no large studies of in-hospital arrhythmia development and outcomes in pediatric patients with acute myocarditis. This was a retrospective 2-center review of patients 21 years hospitalized with acute myocarditis from 1996 to 2012. Fulminant myocarditis was defined as the need for inotropic support within 24 hours of presentation. Acute arrhythmias occurred at presentation and subacute after admission. Eighty-five patients (59% men) presented at a median age of 10 years (1 day to 18 years). Arrhythmias occurred in 38 patients (45%): 16 acute, 12 subacute, and 9 acute and subacute (1 onset unknown). Arrhythmias were associated with low voltages on the electrocardiogram (14 of 34, 41% vs 6 of 47, 13%; odds ratio [OR] 4.78, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.60 to 14.31) and worse outcome (mechanical support, orthotopic heart transplant, or death; OR 7.59, 95% CI 2.61 to 22.07) but were not statistically significantly associated with a fulminant course, ST changes, initial myocardial function, lactate, creatinine level, C-reactive protein and/or erythrocyte sedimentation rate, or troponin I level, after adjusting for multiple comparisons. Subacute arrhythmias were associated with preceding ST changes (10 of 15, 67% vs 15 of 59, 25%, OR 5.87, 95% CI 1.73 to 19.93). All patients surviving to discharge had arrhythmia resolution or control before discharge (10 on antiarrhythmic), with 1 exception (patient with complete heart block requiring a pacemaker). At 1-year follow-up, there were 3 recurrences of ventricular arrhythmias, but no arrhythmia-related mortality. In conclusion, arrhythmias are common in pediatric patients with myocarditis, occurring in nearly 1/2 of all hospitalized children and are associated with a worse outcome. Early identification of subacute arrhythmias using electrocardiographic changes may help management. A majority of patients do not require continued postdischarge arrhythmia treatment.

UI  - 24332196
TI  - Pharmacokinetic and safety profile of ivabradine in healthy Chinese men: a phase I, randomized, open-label, increasing single- and multiple-dose study.
AB  - The results of the study in a small population of healthy Chinese men suggest that the PK properties of ivabradine are linear with respect to dosing. After single and repeated oral administration of ivabradine, a significant decrease in heart rate was observed. Ivabradine appeared well tolerated in the population studied. Trial identifier: ACTRN1261300027741.

UI  - 24323795
TI  - Efficacy and safety of dabigatran compared with warfarin in relation to baseline renal function in patients with atrial fibrillation: a RE-LY (Randomized Evaluation of Long-term Anticoagulation Therapy) trial analysis.
AB  - http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00262600.

UI  - 24319042
TI  - Left atrial appendage occlusion in atrial fibrillation after intracranial hemorrhage.
AB  - This study provides Class III evidence that in patients with a history of previous ICH and AF, percutaneous LAAO is safe and feasible.

UI  - 24315894
TI  - Factors associated with major bleeding events: insights from the ROCKET AF trial (rivaroxaban once-daily oral direct factor Xa inhibition compared with vitamin K antagonism for prevention of stroke and embolism trial in atrial fibrillation).
AB  - Rivaroxaban and warfarin had similar risk for major/nonmajor clinically relevant bleeding. Age, sex, DBP, prior GI bleeding, prior acetylsalicylic acid use, and anemia were associated with the risk of major bleeding. (An Efficacy and Safety Study of Rivaroxaban With Warfarin for the Prevention of Stroke and Non-Central Nervous System Systemic Embolism in Patients With Non-Valvular Atrial Fibrillation: NCT00403767).

UI  - 24315768
TI  - Thyroid function, cardiovascular events, and mortality in diabetic hemodialysis patients.
AB  - Sudden cardiac death may be influenced by subclinical hyperthyroidism and euthyroid sick syndrome in the short term. Furthermore, euthyroid sick syndrome is associated strongly with mortality in hemodialysis patients. Regular assessment of thyroid status may help estimate the cardiac risk of dialysis patients.

UI  - 24315697
TI  - Totally thoracoscopic closure of ventricular septal defect without a robotically assisted surgical system: a summary of 119 cases.
AB  - Totally thoracoscopic closure of VSD through a 3-port entry was safe and effective.

UI  - 24315152
TI  - Does the amount of atrial mass reduction improve clinical outcomes after radiofrequency catheter ablation for long-standing persistent atrial fibrillation? Comparison between linear ablation and defragmentation.
AB  - Conduction block through linear lines+PVI was an efficient ablation strategy for L-PeAF, whereas the AMR amount did not influence clinical outcomes.

UI  - 24297188
TI  - Atrial ectopy as a predictor of incident atrial fibrillation: a cohort study.
AB  - American Heart Association, Joseph Drown Foundation, and National Institutes of Health.

UI  - 24291282
TI  - Coxsackie and adenovirus receptor is a modifier of cardiac conduction and arrhythmia vulnerability in the setting of myocardial ischemia.
AB  - CAR is a novel modifier of ventricular conduction and arrhythmia vulnerability in the setting of myocardial ischemia. Genetic determinants of arrhythmia susceptibility (such as CAR) may constitute future targets for risk stratification of potentially lethal ventricular arrhythmias in patients with coronary artery disease.

UI  - 24290930
TI  - The dominant morphology of fractionated atrial electrograms has greater temporal stability in persistent as compared with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation.
AB  - In CFAE recordings, the DM parameter was found to have greater temporal morphologic variation in paroxysmal as compared with persistent AF data (p<0.001). In contrast, only moderate significance between paroxysmal versus persistent AF data was found when using the of CFE-mean and ICL parameters (p<0.05). The DM parameter may thus be useful as a new measure to discern both temporal and spatial variations in CFAE in paroxysmal versus persistent AF recordings.

UI  - 24290914
TI  - Mitigating the effect of non-stationarity in spectral analysis-an application to neonate heart rate analysis.
AB  - In order to mitigate the effect of non-stationarity in frequency domain analysis of data, we propose a modification to the power spectral estimation, a widely used technique to characterize physiological signals. Spectral analysis requires partitioning data into smaller epochs determined by the desired frequency resolution. The modified approach proposed here involves dividing the data within each epoch by the standard deviation of the data for that epoch. We applied this modified approach to cardiac beat-to-beat interval data recorded from a newborn infant undergoing hypothermia treatment for birth asphyxia. The critically ill infant had episodes of tachyarrhythmia, distributed sporadically throughout the study, which affected the stationarity of the heart rate. Over the period of continuous heart rate recording, the infant's clinical course deteriorated progressively culminating in death. Coinciding with this clinical deterioration, the heart rate signal showed striking changes in both low-frequency and high-frequency power indicating significant impairment of the autonomic nervous system. The standard spectral approach failed to capture these phenomena because of the non-stationarity of the signal. Conversely, the modified approach proposed here captured the deteriorating physiology of the infant clearly.

UI  - 24289181
TI  - Patient perspective on the management of atrial fibrillation in five European countries.
AB  - In the context of Europe-wide guidelines for management of AF, most patients with AF were satisfied with their care, but for a greater proportion of patients, some aspects are unsatisfactory. Patient-centred surveys, such as the EUPS-AF, are crucial for understanding the factors that contribute to patient satisfaction and compliance with long-term treatment for chronic conditions.

UI  - 24284363
TI  - Molecular analysis of potassium ion channel genes in sudden death cases among patients administered psychotropic drug therapy: are polymorphisms in LQT genes a potential risk factor?
AB  - Psychotropic drugs can pose the risk of acquired long QT syndrome (LQTS). Unexpected autopsy-negative sudden death in patients taking psychotropic drugs may be associated with prolonged QT intervals and life-threatening arrhythmias. We analyzed genes that encode for cardiac ion channels and potentially associated with LQTS, examining specifically the potassium channel genes KCNQ1 and KCNH2 in 10 cases of sudden death involving patients administered psychotropic medication in which autopsy findings identified no clear cause of death. We amplified and sequenced all exons of KCNQ1 and KCNH2, identifying G643S, missense polymorphism in KCNQ1, in 6 of the 10 cases. A study analysis indicated that only 11% of 381 healthy Japanese individuals carry this polymorphism. Reports of previous functional analyses indicate that the G643S polymorphism in the KCNQ1 potassium channel protein causes mild I(Ks) channel dysfunction. Our present study suggests that administering psychotropic drug therapy to individuals carrying the G643S polymorphism may heighten the risk of prolonged QT intervals and life-threatening arrhythmias. Thus, screening for the G643S polymorphism before prescribing psychotropic drugs may help reduce the risk of unexpected sudden death.

UI  - 24283107
TI  - Evaluation of the cost of atrial fibrillation during emergency hospitalization.
AB  - The mean cost of care for AF patients admitted via the emergency department is strongly associated with the degree of severity. Approximately 85% of the total cost is related to the cost of hospital days and medical procedures. Hypertension is the most common secondary diagnosis. An optimal treatment of this risk factor could help to reduce the risk of atrial fibrillation, and thereby reduce the morbidity and costs associated with this disease.

UI  - 24277055
TI  - Effect of remote ischemic preconditioning on platelet activation and reactivity induced by ablation for atrial fibrillation.
AB  - Our data show that remote IPC before radiofrequency catheter ablation for paroxysmal atrial fibrillation significantly reduces the increased platelet activation and reactivity associated with the procedure.

UI  - 24263121
TI  - The risk of adverse events associated with atropine administration during dobutamine stress echocardiography in cardiac transplant patients: a 28-year single-center experience.
AB  - Our findings suggest that complete heart block can occur infrequently with the administration of atropine in heart transplant patients undergoing DSE. Therefore, patients should be appropriately monitored for these adverse events during and after DSE.

UI  - 24259690
TI  - Challenges of anticoagulation for atrial fibrillation in patients with severe sepsis.
AB  - Administration of anticoagulation for elderly patients with a CHADS2 score at 2 or more in the setting of sepsis can be associated with an increased risk of anticoagulation-related complications (eg, bleeding, heparin-induced thrombocytopenia). Managing and targeting a therapeutic goal with warfarin therapy in critically ill patients with sepsis is challenging. Further studies are necessary to provide appropriate recommendations in this setting.

UI  - 24251363
TI  - A randomized trial of genotype-guided dosing of warfarin.
AB  - Pharmacogenetic-based dosing was associated with a higher percentage of time in the therapeutic INR range than was standard dosing during the initiation of warfarin therapy. (Funded by the European Commission Seventh Framework Programme and others; ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT01119300.).

UI  - 24251359
TI  - Edoxaban versus warfarin in patients with atrial fibrillation.
AB  - Both once-daily regimens of edoxaban were noninferior to warfarin with respect to the prevention of stroke or systemic embolism and were associated with significantly lower rates of bleeding and death from cardiovascular causes. (Funded by Daiichi Sankyo Pharma Development; ENGAGE AF-TIMI 48 ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00781391.).

UI  - 24251308
TI  - The effect of right ventricle pacemaker lead position on diastolic function in patients with preserved left ventricle ejection fraction.
AB  - Our aim was to analyze any changes during diastole in patients with normal left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF), after pacemaker stimulation from the right ventricular outflow tract (RVOT) and right ventricular apex (RVA) lead position. This was a prospective, randomized, follow up study, which lasted for 12 months. Our research included 132 consecutive patients who were implanted with a permanent antibradycardiac pacemaker. Regarding the right ventricle lead position the patients were divided into two groups: The RVOT group--71 patients, with right ventricle outflow tract lead position and the RVA group--61 patients, with right ventricle apex lead position. We measured LVEF and diastolic parameters: peak filling ratio and time to peak filling ratio obtained by radionuclide ventriculography (RNV). The LVEF and various diastolic parameters and left atrial diameter were obtained by echocardiography. Based on the values of deceleration time of early diastolic filling (DTE), and other diastolic parameters like left atrial diameter, all the patients were classified into three degrees of diastolic dysfunction. Our results showed that there was no group difference in distribution of gender, age, body mass index (BMI), VVI to DDD pacemakers implantation ratio, RNV parameters (LVEF, peak filling rate (PFR), time to PFR (TPFR)) and echocardiography parameters: LVEF and parameters of diastolic dysfunction. After 12 months of pacemaker stimulation, LVEF by RNV remained the same in the RVOT group 51.3115.80% (P=0.75), and also in the RVA group 53.836.57%, (P=0.19). In the RVOT group the PFR was highly lower and this finding was significant (P=0.01), while TPFR was also significantly lower (P=0.03). By dividing the patients according to the degree of diastolic dysfunction we found that most patients in both groups at enrollment had a second degree diastolic dysfunction. In both groups diastolic dysfunction increased, the number of patients with third degree diastolic dysfunction increased, and the number of patients with second degree diastolic dysfunction decreased, however, the worsening of diastolic function was significant only in the RVOT group. In conclusion, pacemaker stimulation from RVOT, but not in RVA, leads to progression of diastolic dysfunction in patients with preserved LVEF. This negative effect of pacemaker stimulation from RVOT on diastolic parameters was confirmed by two independent methods, RNV and echocardiography.

UI  - 24246597
TI  - Effects of daily kangaroo care on cardiorespiratory parameters in preterm infants.
AB  - KC reduces bradycardia and oxygen desaturation events in preterm infants, providing physiological stability and possible benefits for neurodevelopmental outcomes.

UI  - 24244409
TI  - Orthostatic change in blood pressure and incidence of atrial fibrillation: results from a bi-ethnic population based study.
AB  - OH is associated with higher AF incidence. Whether interventions that decrease OH can reduce AF risk remains unknown.

UI  - 24240932
TI  - Effect of weight reduction and cardiometabolic risk factor management on symptom burden and severity in patients with atrial fibrillation: a randomized clinical trial.
AB  - anzctr.org.au Identifier: ACTRN12610000497000.

UI  - 24240712
TI  - Effect of prehospital induction of mild hypothermia on survival and neurological status among adults with cardiac arrest: a randomized clinical trial.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00391469.

UI  - 24235904
TI  - Patient safety incidents during overnight polysomnography: a five-year observational cohort study.
AB  - Adverse events during a PSG were relatively uncommon. Previous emphasis on cardiac arrhythmias may be overstated, as chest pain and patient falls were commonest and resulted in hospitalization more often.

UI  - 24228948
TI  - Mirtazapine overdose is unlikely to cause major toxicity.
AB  - Mirtazapine appears to be relatively benign in overdose, associated with tachycardia, mild hypertension and mild CNS depression not requiring intervention.

UI  - 24226808
TI  - High-sensitivity troponin I for risk assessment in patients with atrial fibrillation: insights from the Apixaban for Reduction in Stroke and other Thromboembolic Events in Atrial Fibrillation (ARISTOTLE) trial.
AB  - http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00412984.

UI  - 24222839
TI  - Safety of intravenous ivabradine in acute ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction patients treated with primary percutaneous coronary intervention: a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, pilot study.
AB  - This pilot study shows that intravenous ivabradine may be used safely to slow the heart rate in STEMI. Further studies are needed to characterize its effect on infarct size, left ventricular function and clinical outcomes in this population.

UI  - 24217306
TI  - Prevalence and significance of early repolarisation in a black African population: data of 246 individuals with cardiovascular morbidity.
AB  - Early repolarisation is frequent in black Africans, especially in the setting of cardiovascular morbidity. Early repolarisation may be associated with a past history of syncope, especially the notched pattern.

UI  - 24216126
TI  - Prevalence, correlates, and temporal trends in antiarrhythmic drug use at discharge after implantable cardioverter defibrillator placement (from the National Cardiovascular Data Registry [NCDR]).
AB  - Patients with implantable cardioverter defibrillators (ICDs) can require antiarrhythmic drugs to manage arrhythmias and prevent device shocks. We sought to determine the prevalence, clinical correlates, and institutional variation in the use of antiarrhythmic drugs over time after ICD implantation. From the ICD Registry (2006 to 2011), we analyzed the trends in the use of antiarrhythmic agents prescribed at hospital discharge for patients undergoing first-time ICD placement. The patient, provider, and facility level variables associated with antiarrhythmic use were determined using multivariate logistic regression models. A median odds ratio was calculated to assess the hospital-level variation in the use of antiarrhythmic drugs. Of the cohort (n = 500,995), 15% had received an antiarrhythmic drug at discharge. The use of class III agents increased modestly (13.9% to 14.9%, p <0.01). Amiodarone was the most commonly prescribed drug (82%) followed by sotalol (10%). Among the subgroups, the greatest increase in prescribing was for patients who had received a secondary prevention ICD (26% in 2006% and 30% in 2011, p <0.01) or with a history of ventricular tachycardia (23% to 27%, p <0.01). The median odds ratio for antiarrhythmic prescription was 1.45, indicating that 2 randomly selected hospitals would have had a 45% difference in the odds of treating identical patients with an antiarrhythmic drug. In conclusion, antiarrhythmic drug use, particularly class III antiarrhythmic drugs, is common among ICD recipients at hospital discharge and varies by hospital, suggesting an influence from local treatment patterns. The observed hospital variation suggests a role for augmentation of clinical guidelines regarding the use of antiarrhythmic drugs for patients undergoing implantation of an ICD.

UI  - 24211823
TI  - Outcomes in catheter ablation of ventricular tachycardia in dilated nonischemic cardiomyopathy compared with ischemic cardiomyopathy: results from the Prospective Heart Centre of Leipzig VT (HELP-VT) Study.
AB  - Although the short-term success rates after VT ablation in NIDCM and ICM patients were similar, the long-term outcomes in NIDCM patients were significantly worse. Complete VT noninducibility at the end of the ablation is associated with beneficial long-term outcome in NIDCM. Pursuing compete elimination of all inducible VTs is desirable and may improve the long-term success in NIDCM.

UI  - 24211508
TI  - Efficacy and safety of apixaban in patients after cardioversion for atrial fibrillation: insights from the ARISTOTLE Trial (Apixaban for Reduction in Stroke and Other Thromboembolic Events in Atrial Fibrillation).
AB  - Major cardiovascular events after cardioversion of atrial fibrillation are rare and comparable between warfarin andapixaban. (Apixaban for Reduction in Stroke and Other Thromboembolic Events in Atrial Fibrillation [ARISTOTLE]; NCT00412984).

UI  - 24200925
TI  - Defibrillation testing in everyday medical practice during implantable cardioverter defibrillator implantation in France: analysis from the LEADER registry.
AB  - In this study, more than 10% of ICD patients were implanted without VF induction. Untested patients appeared to be sicker than tested patients, with a more severe long-term outcome, but without any difference in mortality due to arrhythmic events.

UI  - 24200873
TI  - J waves in accidental hypothermia.
AB  - The prevalence of J waves and their amplitude increased with the severity of hypothermia. The temporal development of J waves might not be associated with fatal arrhythmic events.

UI  - 24197403
TI  - A randomized controlled clinical trial of pacemaker follow-up in clinic and by telemedical interpretation of the pacemakers' magnet mode.
AB  - We assessed a two-stage follow-up procedure for cardiac pacemakers, where in-clinic follow-ups were partly replaced by telemedical follow-ups. This was compared with the standard follow-up regime (in-clinic follow-up only). The new procedure required an electronic patient record, a telemedical follow-up unit for recording ECGs while the pacemaker was temporarily set to magnet mode, an ECG processing unit, and a reviewing and reporting unit. A total of 177 (86 female) patients were randomized to the control group and 182 (98 female) patients to the telemedicine group. In the telemedicine group, 234 telemedical follow-ups were performed. Out of these, 68 required an additional in-clinic follow-up, while 166 were sufficient for assessing the pacemakers' working status. During the study, there were 19 deaths in the telemedicine group and 20 in the control group. There was no significant difference between the two groups(P=0.40). The probability that an individual patient's pacemaker would not to be replaced over time was analysed in a similar way to the Kaplan-Meier survival function. Fewer pacemakers were replaced in the telemedicine group (14) than in the control group (18), but the difference was not significant (P=0.26). We conclude that alternating telemedical and in-clinic follow-ups brings no additional risks for patients. The follow-up procedure is feasible and interpretation of the pacemakers' magnet effect provides an easy-to-use, manufacturer-independent method of assessing the pacemakers' working status. This should reduce the patient load on pacemaker centres and decrease the overall costs of pacemaker therapy.

UI  - 24195206
TI  - [Clinical efficacy observation on paroxysmal atrial fibrillation treated by acupuncture combined with Wenxin granule].
AB  - Acupuncture combined with Wenxin granule has a better effect than simple Wenxin granule therapy in the treatment of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation.

UI  - 24192796
TI  - ECG machine QTc intervals are inaccurate in hemodialysis patients.
AB  - In hemodialysis patients, ECG macQTc intervals are insufficiently sensitive or specific to predict prolonged trueQTc intervals, unless >480 ms.

UI  - 24190143
TI  - Further assessment of atrial fibrillation as a risk factor for gastroesophageal reflux disease: a multicenter questionnaire survey.
AB  - This multicenter study demonstrated that nonvalvular AF is significantly correlated with symptomatic GERD. This small sample survey warrants a future study of a large-scale cohort.

UI  - 24189505
TI  - Impact of atrial fibrillation termination site and termination mode in catheter ablation on arrhythmia recurrence.
AB  - The site and mode of AF termination during the index ablation procedure predict ATa recurrence following multiple catheter ablation procedures for PsAF.

UI  - 24182908
TI  - Idiopathic ventricular outflow tract arrhythmias from the great cardiac vein: challenges and risks of catheter ablation.
AB  - A relevant proportion idiopathic VT/PVC can safely be ablated from the GCV without significant permanent coronary artery stenosis after RF application. Our data furthermore demonstrate that damage to the coronary artery system is likely to be transient.

UI  - 24179163
TI  - Contemporary predictors of death and sustained ventricular tachycardia in patients with repaired tetralogy of Fallot enrolled in the INDICATOR cohort.
AB  - RV hypertrophy, ventricular dysfunction and atrial tachyarrhythmias are predictive of death and sustained VT in adults with repaired TOF. These findings may inform risk stratification and the design of future therapeutic trials.

UI  - 24176451
TI  - Incidence of atrial fibrillation in a population with impaired glucose tolerance: the contribution of glucose metabolism and other risk factors. A post hoc analysis of the Nateglinide and Valsartan in Impaired Glucose Tolerance Outcomes Research trial.
AB  - In a trial population with impaired glucose tolerance, fasting plasma glucose and well-known risk factors (age, hypertension, and elevated body weight), but not progression to diabetes, predict risk of AF.

UI  - 24176441
TI  - New-onset atrial fibrillation predicts malignant arrhythmias in post-myocardial infarction patients--a Cardiac Arrhythmias and RIsk Stratification after acute Myocardial infarction (CARISMA) substudy.
AB  - In patients surviving a MI with reduced left ventricular systolic function, new-onset AF is associated with a significantly increased risk of developing ventricular brady- and tachyarrhythmias.

UI  - 24176066
TI  - Impact of atrial fibrillation in patients with ST-elevation myocardial infarction treated with percutaneous coronary intervention (from the HORIZONS-AMI [Harmonizing Outcomes With Revascularization and Stents in Acute Myocardial Infarction] trial).
AB  - Atrial fibrillation (AF) has been associated with worse outcomes after primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) for acute myocardial infarction. The aim of this study was to evaluate the incidence and impact of new-onset AF after primary PCI in patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarctions from the Harmonizing Outcomes With Revascularization and Stents in Acute Myocardial Infarction (HORIZONS-AMI) trial. HORIZONS-AMI was a large-scale, multicenter, international, randomized trial comparing different antithrombotic regimens and stents during primary PCI in patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarctions. Three-year ischemic and bleeding end points were compared between patients with and without new-onset AF after PCI. Of the 3,602 patients included in the HORIZONS-AMI study, 3,281 (91.1%) with sinus rhythm at initial presentation had primary PCI as their primary management strategy. Of these, new-onset AF developed in 147 (4.5%). Compared with patients without AF after PCI, patients with new-onset AF had higher 3-year rates of net adverse clinical events (46.5% vs 25.7%, p<0.0001), mortality (11.9% vs 6.3%, p= 0.01), reinfarction (16.4% vs 7.0%, p <0.0001), stroke (5.8% vs 1.5%, p <0.0001), and major bleeding (20.9% vs 8.2%, p <0.0001). By multivariate analysis, new-onset AF after PCI was a powerful independent predictor of netadverse clinical events (hazard ratio 1.74, 95% confidence interval 1.30 to 2.34, p=0.0002) and major adverse cardiac events (hazard ratio 1.73, 95% confidence interval 1.27 to 2.36) at 3 years. In conclusion, new-onset AF after PCI for ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction was associated with markedly higher rates of adverse events and mortality.

UI  - 24169014
TI  - Usefulness of echocardiographically guided left ventricular lead placement for cardiac resynchronization therapy in patients with intermediate QRS width and non-left bundle branch block morphology.
AB  - The current guidelines most strongly support cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) for patients with heart failure with a QRS width of 150 ms and left bundle branch block (LBBB). Our objective was to assess the potential benefit of echocardiographically guided left ventricular (LV) lead positioning for patients with a QRS width <150 ms or non-LBBB as a substudy of the Speckle Tracking Assisted Resynchronization Therapy for Electrode Region (STARTER) prospective, randomized controlled trial. The STARTER trial randomized 187 patients with heart failure, a QRS of 120 ms, and ejection fraction of 35% to LV lead guided to the site of latest mechanical activation by speckle tracking radial strain versus routine implantation. The predefined primary end point was heart failure hospitalization or death within 2 years. This substudy included 151 CRT patients with matching echocardiographic and LV lead position data and complete follow-up data. Patients with a QRS width of 120 to 149 ms or non-LBBB and LV lead concordant or adjacent to the site of latest mechanical activation had favorable outcomes after CRT similar to those with LBBB or a QRS width of 150 ms. In contrast, patients with a QRS of 120 to 149 ms or non-LBBB and remote LV leads had unfavorable outcomes (hazard ratio 5.45, 95% confidence interval 2.36 to 12.6, p <0.001, and hazard ratio 4.92, 95% confidence interval 2.12 to 11.39, p <0.001, respectively, with significant interaction after adjusting for baseline variables, p = 0.038 and p = 0.008). In conclusion, LV lead positioning with respect to the echocardiographic site of latest activation was significantly associated with more favorable clinical outcomes in patients with a QRS duration <150 ms and/or non-LBBB. Additional prospective study is warranted.

UI  - 24167619
TI  - Electrophysiological characteristics of a SCN5A voltage sensors mutation R1629Q associated with Brugada syndrome.
AB  - Brugada syndrome (BrS) is an inherited arrhythmogenic syndrome leading to sudden cardiac death, partially associated with autosomal dominant mutations in SCN5A, which encodes the cardiac sodium channel alpha-subunit (Nav1.5). To date some SCN5A mutations related with BrS have been identified in voltage sensor of Nav1.5. Here, we describe a dominant missense mutation (R1629Q) localized in the fourth segment of domain IV region (DIV-S4) in a Chinese Han family. The mutation was identified by direct sequencing of SCN5A from the proband's DNA. Co-expression of Wild-type (WT) or R1629Q Nav1.5 channel and h1 subunit were achieved in human embryonic kidney cells by transient transfection. Sodium currents were recorded using whole cell patch-clamp protocols. No significant changes between WT and R1629Q currents were observed in current density or steady-state activation. However, hyperpolarized shift of steady-state inactivation curve was identified in cells expressing R1629Q channel (WT: V1/2 = -81.1  1.3 mV, n = 13; R1629Q: V1/2 = -101.7  1.2 mV, n = 18). Moreover, R1629Q channel showed enhanced intermediate inactivation and prolonged recovery time from inactivation. In summary, this study reveals that R1629Q mutation causes a distinct loss-of-function of the channel due to alter its electrophysiological characteristics, and facilitates our understanding of biophysical mechanisms of BrS.

UI  - 24166490
TI  - Vitamin E serum levels and bleeding risk in patients receiving oral anticoagulant therapy: a retrospective cohort study.
AB  - In a NVAF population being treated with warfarin, serum vitamin E predicted hemorrhagic events. Further study is necessary to see if the relationship between serum levels of vitamin E and bleeding is still maintained with the use of new anticoagulants.

UI  - 24164685
TI  - Percutaneous axillary vein approach in pediatric pacing: comparison with subclavian vein approach.
AB  - The axillary vein approach for PM implantation in children is effective and safe for physicians skilled with subclavian vein approach. Younger patients with smaller vein diameters are at low risk for unsuccessful procedure.

UI  - 24163147
TI  - Validation of a patient decision aid for choosing between dabigatran and warfarin for atrial fibrillation.
AB  - Our DA to allow patients to make an informed decision with their physician regarding dabigatran versus warfarin in AF, proved understandable, comprehensive and helpful.

UI  - 24163067
TI  - Electromagnetic interference with implantable cardioverter-defibrillators at power frequency: an in vivo study.
AB  - http://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT01626261. Unique identifier: NCT01626261.

UI  - 24162898
TI  - Impact of atrial fibrillation on exercise capacity in heart failure with preserved ejection fraction: a RELAX trial ancillary study.
AB  - URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00763867.

UI  - 24162833
TI  - Prognostic role of subsequent atrial tachycardias occurring during ablation of persistent atrial fibrillation: a prospective randomized trial.
AB  - URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT01896570.

UI  - 24162832
TI  - Impact of local ablation on interconnected channels within ventricular scar: mechanistic implications for substrate modification.
AB  - Ablation can eliminate neighboring and remote areas of slow conduction, suggesting that channels within scar are frequently interconnected. This is the first mechanistic demonstration to show that ablation can modify electrical activity in regions of scar outside of the known radius of an radiofrequency lesion. The targeting of relatively earlier LPs can expedite scar homogenization without the need for extensive ablation of all LPs.

UI  - 24162462
TI  - A phase I, dose-escalation trial evaluating the safety and efficacy of emulsified isoflurane in healthy human volunteers.
AB  - EI is safe for intravenous injection in human volunteers in the dose range of 0.3 to 64.6 mg/kg. At doses of 22.6 mg/kg or higher, EI produced rapid onset of unconsciousness in all volunteers followed by fast, predictable, and complete recovery.

UI  - 24157188
TI  - Shorter minimum p-wave duration is associated with paroxysmal lone atrial fibrillation.
AB  - Unlike common AF, paroxysmal LAF is independently associated with shorter minPWdur. This finding suggests that both shorter and prolonged PWdur may be associated with increased risk of AF.

UI  - 24145742
TI  - Plasma phospholipid omega-3 fatty acids and incidence of postoperative atrial fibrillation in the OPERA trial.
AB  - Among patients undergoing cardiac surgery, neither higher habitual circulating n-3 PUFA levels, nor achieved levels or changes following short-term fish oil supplementation are associated with risk of PoAF.

UI  - 24135301
TI  - New-onset atrial fibrillation after acute myocardial infarction and its relation to admission biomarkers (from the TRIUMPH registry).
AB  - Atrial fibrillation (AF) is an independent predictor of mortality after acute myocardial infarction (AMI). We analyzed the relation between biomarkers linked to myocardial stretch (NT-pro-brain natriuretic peptide [NT-proBNP]), myocardial damage (Troponin-T [TnT]), and inflammation (high-sensitivity C-reactive protein [hs-CRP]) and new-onset AF during AMI to identify patients at high risk for AF. In a prospective multicenter registry of AMI patients (from the Translational Research Investigating Underlying disparities in recovery from acute Myocardial infarction: Patients' Health status registry), we measured NT-proBNP, TnT, and hs-CRP in patients without a history of AF (n = 2,370). New-onset AF was defined as AF that occurred during the index hospitalization. Hierarchical multivariate logistic regression models were used to determine the association of biomarkers with new-onset AF, after adjusting for other covariates. New-onset AF was documented in 114 patients with AMI (4.8%; mean age 58 years; 32% women). For each twofold increase in NT-proBNP, there was an 18% increase in the rate of AF (odds ratio [OR] 1.18, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.03 to 1.35; p <0.02). Similarly, for every twofold increase in hs-CRP, there was a 15% increase in the rate of AF (OR 1.15, 95% CI 1.02 to 1.30; p = 0.02). TnT was not independently associated with new-onset AF (OR 0.96, 95% CI 0.85 to 1.07; p = 0.3). NT-proBNP and hs-CRP were independently associated with new in-hospital AF after MI, in both men and women, irrespective of race. Our study suggests that markers of myocardial stretch and inflammation, but not the amount of myocardial necrosis, are important determinants of AF in the setting of AMI.

UI  - 24131775
TI  - N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide as a predictor of incident atrial fibrillation in the Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis: the effects of age, sex and ethnicity.
AB  - NT proBNP is a robust predictor of incident AF; its prognostic value is more significant in younger patients and women compared with older patients and men. NT proBNP was also as strongly predictive in black patients, Hispanics and Asian/Chinese as in white patients despite a lower incidence of arrhythmia.

UI  - 24130137
TI  - Improved detection of silent atrial fibrillation using 72-hour Holter ECG in patients with ischemic stroke: a prospective multicenter cohort study.
AB  - In unselected survivors of stroke or TIA, 72-hour ECG monitoring is feasible and improves the detection rate of silent paroxysmal AF.

UI  - 24130088
TI  - Long-term follow-up after autologous skeletal myoblast transplantation in ischaemic heart disease.
AB  - Our long-term data confirm the findings of the MAGIC study. The LV function did not improve, but the long-term LV volumes in the high-dosage group were reduced. During the follow-up, there were also no additional arrhythmogenic incidences. Our data could imply that CABG in combination with ASM-Tx is safe and has beneficial therapeutic effects in the long-term. However, due to the small patient number, the clinical impact is limited.

UI  - 24129597
TI  - Effect of palonosetron on the QTc interval in patients undergoing sevoflurane anaesthesia.
AB  - There was no significant difference in the QTc intervals during the perioperative period, whether 0.075 mg of palonosetron is administered before or after sevoflurane anaesthesia. Palonosetron may be safe in terms of QTc intervals during sevoflurane anaesthesia. Clinical trial registration ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT01650961.

UI  - 24119082
TI  - Poor prognosis of rare sarcomeric gene variants in patients with dilated cardiomyopathy.
AB  - Patients with DCM carrying rare variants in sarcomeric genes manifest a poorer prognosis as compared to noncarriers after the age of 50 years. These data further support the role of genetic testing in DCM for risk stratification.

UI  - 24117856
TI  - Quality of life and functional capacity after long-term right ventricular pacing in pediatrics and young adults with congenital atrioventricular block.
AB  - Chronic RV pacing did not affect the HRQoL and physical capacity of pediatrics and young subjects. Female gender, ventricular function, and cardiovascular drugs were associated with lower HRQoL scores. Older subjects walked shorter distances in the 6MWDT, as well as subjects who were taking cardiovascular drugs.

UI  - 24113852
TI  - Effect of defibrillation threshold testing-induced ventricular fibrillation on renal function.
AB  - DFT testing at the time of ICD implantation is not associated with acute adverse effects on renal function.

UI  - 24113850
TI  - Immediate and medium-term outcomes of cryoballoon-based pulmonary vein isolation in patients with paroxysmal and persistent atrial fibrillation: single-centre experience.
AB  - Our results showed that AF ablation with cryoballoon is effective and safe. Non-paroxysmal AF, duration of AF, smoking, BMI, LA diameter and early recurrence were found to be the most powerful predictors and could be helpful to select patients for appropriate therapeutic strategy.

UI  - 24105924
TI  - Remote monitoring of implantable pacemakers: in-office setup significantly improves successful data transmission.
AB  - In patients implanted with PM capable of remote wireless data transmission, initial home setup of the wireless monitoring device was frequently unsuccessful. In-office PM setup was associated with a significantly higher rate of successful transmission.

UI  - 24101149
TI  - Discontinuing anticoagulation following successful atrial fibrillation ablation in patients with prior strokes.
AB  - Patients with prior CVA/TIAs, who undergo successful AF ablation, have a low incidence of subsequent thromboembolic events. Most patients who appear AF free postablation may be able to discontinue OAC after successful ablation with a low thromboembolic risk and with a reduced bleeding risk.

UI  - 24100180
TI  - Clinical profile and therapeutic management of patients with atrial fibrillation in Greece: results from the Registry of Atrial Fibrillation to Investigate New Guidelines (RAFTING).
AB  - RAFTING provides updated insights into the current features and management of AF in Greece. The majority of patients have a sufficiently high risk to warrant oral anticoagulation and further attempts to comply with the existing guidelines are warranted.

UI  - 24093846
TI  - Dual antiplatelet therapy versus oral anticoagulation plus dual antiplatelet therapy in patients with atrial fibrillation and low-to-moderate thromboembolic risk undergoing coronary stenting: design of the MUSICA-2 randomized trial.
AB  - The MUSICA-2 will attempt to determine the most effective and safe treatment in patients with nonvalvular AF and CHADS2 score 2 after PCI-S. Restricting TT for AF patients at high risk for stroke may reduce the incidence of bleeding without increasing the risk of thromboembolic complications.

UI  - 24090821
TI  - Design and baseline data from the Management of Sadness and Anxiety in Cardiology (MOSAIC) randomized controlled trial.
AB  - The MOSAIC trial will provide data regarding whether an intervention that concurrently manages these common psychiatric disorders results in meaningful improvements in HRQoL, psychiatric symptoms, and medical outcomes in cardiac patients at high risk for adverse outcomes.

UI  - 24088003
TI  - [The use of implantable devices for long-term monitoring of cardiac rhythm after surgical treatment of atrial fibrillation in patients with ischemic heart disease].
AB  - We present in this paper experience of the use of implantable devices for long-term monitoring of cardiac rhythm after one stage operation of coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) and radiofrequency ablation of atrial fibrillation (AF) source and results of a prospective randomized study, in which we included patients (n=95) with persistent AF and ischemic heart disease. These patients were randomized into 3 groups: with radiofrequency isolation of ostia of pulmonary veins (group 1, n=31), radiofrequency modified mini-maze procedure (group 2, n=30); CABG without AF elimination (control group 3, n=34). Implantable devices Reveal XT were used in 53 patients (21, 25, and 7 in groups 1, 2, and 3, respectively). According to data obtained with these devices AF was absent in 86.7, 95.6, 53%, and in 80, 86.2, 44.1% of patients in groups 1, 2, 3 after 1 and 2 years after operation, respectively). In 24% of patients Reveal devices also registered asymptomati-c arrhythmias. The use of implantable devices for monitoring of rhythm allowed to detect such arrhythmia and to provide timely correction of therapy.

UI  - 24084680
TI  - Management of atrial fibrillation in seven European countries after the publication of the 2010 ESC Guidelines on atrial fibrillation: primary results of the PREvention oF thromboemolic events--European Registry in Atrial Fibrillation (PREFER in AF).
AB  - The management of AF patients in 2012 has adapted to recent evidence and guideline recommendations. Oral anticoagulant therapy with VKA (majority) or NOACs is given to over 80% of eligible patients, including those at risk for bleeding. Rate is often adequately controlled, and rhythm control therapy is widely used.

UI  - 24081972
TI  - Management and outcomes of major bleeding during treatment with dabigatran or warfarin.
AB  - http://www.ClinicalTrials.gov. Unique identifiers: NCT00262600, NCT00291330, NCT00680186, NCT00329238 and NCT00558259.

UI  - 24081373
TI  - A head-to-head comparison of periprocedural coagulability under anticoagulation with rivaroxaban versus dabigatran in patients undergoing ablation of atrial fibrillation.
AB  - As compared with dabigatran, rivaroxaban may increase the risk of hypercoagulability when used during the periprocedural period of AF ablation, suggesting a potential rebound effect of rivaroxaban or a mismatch between its half-life and dose regimen.

UI  - 24076487
TI  - The effect of dabigatran plasma concentrations and patient characteristics on the frequency of ischemic stroke and major bleeding in atrial fibrillation patients: the RE-LY Trial (Randomized Evaluation of Long-Term Anticoagulation Therapy).
AB  - Ischemic stroke and bleeding outcomes were correlated with dabigatran plasma concentrations. Age was the most important covariate. Individual benefit-risk might be improved by tailoring dabigatran dose after considering selected patient characteristics. (Randomized Evaluation of Long Term Anticoagulant Therapy [RE-LY] With Dabigatran Etexilate; NCT00262600).

UI  - 24076446
TI  - Differential sequential septal pacing: a simple maneuver to differentiate nodal versus extranodal ventriculoatrial conduction.
AB  - Differential sequential pacing of the RV septum reliably distinguishes retrograde atrioventricular nodal conduction from AP conduction.

UI  - 24074973
TI  - Genetic modifier of the QTc interval associated with early-onset atrial fibrillation.
AB  - The variant rs2968863 (7q36.1), reported in GWAS to shorten the QTc interval, was found to be associated with early-onset lone AF. This may have implications for the pathophysiological understanding of AF.

UI  - 24074972
TI  - Lone atrial fibrillation in the pediatric population.
AB  - Our reported rate of recurrence of 39% is important when counseling pediatric patients and their parents on the expected course and treatment goals.

UI  - 24071387
TI  - Postoperative arrhythmias in adults with congenital heart disease: incidence and risk factors.
AB  - Arrhythmias are highly prevalent after congenital heart surgery in adults and are associated with worse clinical outcome. Older and symptomatic patients with significant valvular heart disease at baseline are at risk of in-hospital arrhythmias.

UI  - 24070597
TI  - Persistent atrial fibrillation presenting in sinus rhythm: pulmonary vein isolation versus pulmonary vein isolation plus electrogram-guided ablation.
AB  - The addition of EGM-guided ablation requires fewer procedures to achieve similar clinical efficacy in mid-term follow-up compared with a PVI-only strategy in patients with PsAF presenting for ablation in SR.

UI  - 24065377
TI  - Multidetector computed tomographic anatomy of the coronary sinus in patients with supraventricular reentrant tachycardia.
AB  - Contrary to previous reports, the CS size and morphology of patients with AVNRT did not differ from that of AVRT or control patients.

UI  - 24063919
TI  - Digoxin use is associated with increased risk of stroke in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation--a nationwide population-based cohort study.
AB  - 

UI  - 24058286
TI  - Denervation as a common mechanism underlying different pulmonary vein isolation strategies for paroxysmal atrial fibrillation: evidenced by heart rate variability after ablation.
AB  - Beyond PVI, denervation may be a common mechanism underlying different ablation strategies for PAF.

UI  - 24055845
TI  - High-sensitivity troponin T and risk stratification in patients with atrial fibrillation during treatment with apixaban or warfarin.
AB  - Levels of hs-TnT are often elevated in patients with AF. The hs-TnT level is independently associated with an increased risk of stroke, cardiac death, and major bleeding and improves risk stratification beyond the CHA2DS2VASc risk score. The benefits of apixaban as compared with warfarin are consistent regardless of the hs-TnT level. (Apixaban for the Prevention of Stroke in Subjects With Atrial Fibrillation [ARISTOTLE]; NCT00412984).

UI  - 24054956
TI  - Rate-control versus rhythm-control strategies and outcomes in septuagenarians with atrial fibrillation.
AB  - In septuagenarian patients with atrial fibrillation, compared with rhythm-control, a rate-control strategy was associated with significantly lower mortality and hospitalization.

UI  - 24054920
TI  - Left Atrial Appendage Occlusion Study II (LAAOS II).
AB  - LAA occlusion can be safely performed at the time of cardiac surgery. A large trial to evaluate the clinical efficacy of LAA occlusion in patients undergoing cardiac surgery is possible in motivated centres with some modifications to the design of LAAOS II.

UI  - 24054537
TI  - Ischemic stroke in patients with atrial fibrillation receiving oral anticoagulation.
AB  - A substantial proportion of patients with atrial fibrillation who have an ischemic stroke are already receiving oral anticoagulation. Sub-optimal levels of anticoagulation and additional etiologies explain, only in part, this failure. Further research is needed to help find adequate therapeutic strategies in atrial fibrillation patients who sustain an ischemic stroke while receiving oral anticoagulation.

UI  - 24050376
TI  - The Wedensky test predicts malignant ventricular arrhythmias after myocardial infarction.
AB  - Potentially life-threatening ventricular arrhythmic events could be predicted by the WM test. In combination with other risk factors WMI may be useful in these patients.

UI  - 24048728
TI  - Readmission and death after an acute heart failure event: predictors and outcomes in sub-Saharan Africa: results from the THESUS-HF registry.
AB  - Despite the differences in age and disease characteristics, the main predictors for 6 months mortality and combined 60 days re-admission and death are largely similar in sub-Saharan Africa as in the rest of the world, with some exceptions such as the association of the HIV status with mortality.

UI  - 24048467
TI  - Comparison of the CHADS2, CHA2DS2-VASc and HAS-BLED scores for the prediction of clinically relevant bleeding in anticoagulated patients with atrial fibrillation: the AMADEUS trial.
AB  - Many of the risk factors for stroke in atrial fibrillation (AF) are also important risk factors for bleeding. Wetested the hypothesis that the CHADS2 and CHA2DS2-VASc scores (used for stroke risk assessment) could be used to predict serious bleeding, and that these scores would compare well against the HAS-BLED score, which is a specific risk score designed for bleeding risk assessment. From the AMADEUS trial, we focused on the trial's primary safety outcome for serious bleeding, which was "any clinically relevant bleeding". The predictive value of HAS-BLED/CHADS2/CHA2DS2-VASc were compared by area under the curve (AUC, a measure of the c-index) and the Net Reclassification Improvement (NRI). Of 2,293 patients on VKA, 251 (11%) experienced at least one episode of "any clinically relevant bleeding" during an average 429 days follow up period. Incidence of "any clinically relevant bleeding" rose with increasing HAS-BLED/CHADS2/CHA2DS2-VASc scores, but was statistically significant only for HAS-BLED (p<0.0001). Only HAS-BLED demonstrated significant discriminatory performance for "any clinically relevant bleeding" (AUC 0.60, p<0.0001). There were significant AUC-differences between HAS-BLED (which had the highest AUC) and both CHADS2 (p<0.001) and CHA2DS2VASc (p=0.001). The HAS-BLED score also demonstrated significant NRI for the outcome of "any clinically relevant bleeding" when compared with CHADS2 (p=0.001) and CHA2DS2-VASc (p=0.04). In conclusion, the HAS-BLED score demonstrated significant discriminatory performance for "any clinically relevant bleeding" in anticoagulated patients with AF, whilst the CHADS2 and CHA2DS2-VASc scores did not. Bleeding risk assessment should be made using a specific bleeding risk score such as HAS-BLED, and the stroke risk scores such as CHADS2 or CHA2DS2-VASc scores should not be used.

UI  - 24047487
TI  - Prevalence of early repolarization patterns in a French military population at low cardiovascular risk: implications for preventive medicine.
AB  - ERP was commonly found in this healthy military population. Preventing the risk of sudden death in this population requires systematic ECG screening, medical history analysis and clinical examination to identify symptomatic patients.

UI  - 24047486
TI  - ECG quantification of myocardial scar and risk stratification in MADIT-II.
AB  - Recently, QRS score was shown to be predictive of VT/VF in the SCD-HeFT population consisting of both ischemic and nonischemic HF and having a maximum LVEF of 35% versus 30% for MADIT-II. Our study found that QRS score did not add prognostic value in the MADIT-II population exhibiting relatively more severe cardiac dysfunction.

UI  - 24042320
TI  - Amiodarone-induced thyrotoxicosis late after amiodarone withdrawal.
AB  - Occurrence of amiodarone-induced hypothyroidism during amiodarone therapy and long duration of therapy may be cautionary markers of late AIT.

UI  - 24040156
TI  - Educational intervention improves anticoagulation control in atrial fibrillation patients: the TREAT randomised trial.
AB  - A theory-driven educational intervention significantly improves TTR in AF patients initiating warfarin during the first 6-months. Adverse clinical outcomes may potentially be reduced by improving patients' understanding of the necessity of warfarin and reducing their perception of treatment harm. Improving education provision for AF patients is essential to ensure efficacious and safe treatment. The trial is registered with Current Controlled Trials, ISRCTN93952605, and details are available at www.controlled-trials.com/ISRCTN93952605.

UI  - 24036605
TI  - Initial human feasibility of infusion needle catheter ablation for refractory ventricular tachycardia.
AB  - Intramyocardial infusion-needle catheter ablation is feasible and permits control of some VTs that have been refractory to conventional catheter ablation therapy, warranting further study.

UI  - 24036083
TI  - Electrocardiographic screening of 1-month-old infants for identifying prolonged QT intervals.
AB  - Neonatal electrocardiographic screening can identify infants likely to be affected by long-QT syndrome in the Japanese population, as already shown in whites. This screening may also be useful in identifying other important cardiac diseases.

UI  - 24035102
TI  - Response of QT interval in methadone maintenance treated patients to the rapid changes in heart rate provoked by brisk standing: comparison to healthy controls and patients with long QT syndrome.
AB  - The QT-response of methadone-users to the "stand-up" test is similar to that of healthy volunteers, not to that of LQTS-patients.

UI  - 24033753
TI  - Clinical experience of subcutaneous and transvenous implantable cardioverter defibrillators in children and teenagers.
AB  - In real-world use in children and teenagers, S-ICD may offer similar survival benefit to transvenous ICD, with a lower incidence of complications requiring reoperation. In the absence of randomized trials, S-ICD should be compared prospectively with transvenous ICD in large multicenter registries with comparable periods of follow-up.

UI  - 24032427
TI  - Effects of adrenaline on rhythm transitions in out-of-hospital cardiac arrest.
AB  - Patients who received adrenaline had more rhythm transitions from ROSC and non-shockable rhythms to VF/VT.

UI  - 24026968
TI  - Impact of nonfluoroscopic MediGuide tracking system on radiation exposure in radiofrequency ablation procedures (LESS-RADS registry)-an initial experience.
AB  - MediGuide, a new nonfluoroscopic catheter tracking system, is associated with more than a 50% reduction in fluoroscopic time when compared to conventional mapping systems.

UI  - 24020649
TI  - Administration of isoproterenol and adenosine to guide supplemental ablation after pulmonary vein antrum isolation.
AB  - After PVAI, ablation guided by the administration of adenosine and ISP to target non-PV triggers inducing AF increased AF ablation outcomes. Patients with non-PV foci that did not induce AF had no further ablation, with the lowest ablation success rate. This group may likely benefit from further ablation after PVAI.

UI  - 24016546
TI  - Comparison of catheter ablation and surgical ablation in patients with long-standing persistent atrial fibrillation and rheumatic heart disease: a four-year follow-up study.
AB  - Single procedure success seems to be higher with SICTRA but repeated catheter ablation potentially results in comparable outcomes in treating patients with LS-AF and RHD during long-term follow-up. More macro-reentrant ATs and more PV recoveries are identified to be responsible for ATa in SICTRA and catheter ablation group, respectively.

UI  - 24016511
TI  - Predictors of discordance between physicians' and patients' appraisals of health-related quality of life in atrial fibrillation patients: findings from the Angiotensin II Antagonist in Paroxysmal Atrial Fibrillation Trial.
AB  - In patients with AF, even in the absence of significant concomitant cardiac diseases, depression, followed by sleeping disorder and physical inactivity, was significantly associated with discordance. These findings should be considered by physicians when choosing treatment strategies.

UI  - 24016507
TI  - Documentation of study medication dispensing in a prospective large randomized clinical trial: experiences from the ARISTOTLE Trial.
AB  - Rates of medication dispensing error were low and balanced between treatment groups. The initially reported dispensing error rate was the result of data recording and data management errors and not true medication dispensing errors. These analyses confirm the previously reported results of ARISTOTLE.

UI  - 24016506
TI  - Apixaban versus warfarin in patients with atrial fibrillation according to prior warfarin use: results from the Apixaban for Reduction in Stroke and Other Thromboembolic Events in Atrial Fibrillation trial.
AB  - The treatment effects of apixaban (vs warfarin) were not modified by VKA naivety. The rates of stroke/systemic embolism and major bleeding were numerically lower among the patients assigned to apixaban, irrespective of prior VKA use.

UI  - 24016492
TI  - Improving outcomes in patients with atrial fibrillation: rationale and design of the Early treatment of Atrial fibrillation for Stroke prevention Trial.
AB  - EAST will determine whether rhythm control therapy, when applied early after the initial diagnosis of AF, can prevent cardiovascular complications associated with AF.

UI  - 24016454
TI  - Causes of death and influencing factors in patients with atrial fibrillation: a competing-risk analysis from the randomized evaluation of long-term anticoagulant therapy study.
AB  - http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00262600.

UI  - 24016147
TI  - Catheter versus surgical ablation of atrial fibrillation after a failed initial pulmonary vein isolation procedure: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - In patients with PAF and PersAF after failed initial CA, SA is superior to CA for maintenance of sinus rhythm, although serious adverse event rate is significantly higher for SA.

UI  - 24015729
TI  - Morphology of far-field electrograms and antitachycardia pacing effectiveness among fast ventricular tachycardias occurring in ICD patients: a multicenter study.
AB  - Since ATP is less effective in non-QFVTs, they are less well tolerated. Therefore, the substrate of non-QFVTs may need a specific treatment.

UI  - 24014280
TI  - Global left ventricular longitudinal systolic strain as a major predictor of cardiovascular events in patients with atrial fibrillation.
AB  - GLS was a major parameter and stronger than LVEF and Sa in predicting adverse CV events and could offer an additional prognostic benefit over conventional clinical and echocardiographic systolic parameters in AF.

UI  - 24013705
TI  - Fragmented QRS as a predictor of arrhythmic events in patients with hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy.
AB  - fQRS predicts arrhythmic events in patients with HOCM and should be considered in a model of risk stratification.

UI  - 24013703
TI  - Effectiveness of VF induction with DC fibber versus conventional induction methods in patients on chronic amiodarone therapy.
AB  - The success rate of VF induction using DC fibber method is significantly higher than either Shock-on-T or burst fibber induction methods for patients on chronic amiodarone therapy. This may facilitate defibrillation threshold testing in such patients.

UI  - 24013702
TI  - Deep sedation during catheter ablation for atrial fibrillation in elderly patients.
AB  - Deep sedation with propofol and midazolam during AF ablation did not result in an increased rate in sedation-related complications in elderly patients. Similarly, the rate of procedural complications was not significantly different among the study groups. The rate of respiratory infections and renal failure was significantly higher in the elderly. All adverse events were treated successfully without any remaining sequelae.

UI  - 24012025
TI  - Longitudinal follow-up of externalized Riata leads.
AB  - Riata family of implantable cardioverter defibrillator leads have demonstrated in situ conductor externalization, prompting a class I recall and the Food and Drug Administration recommendation for fluoroscopic screening. The natural history of externalized Riata leads, however, remains unclear. In this study, we examined the rate of electrical failure in Riata leads with externalized cables. We reviewed medical and implantable cardioverter defibrillator records of all 329 patients with Riata leads who underwent fluoroscopic screening from December 2011 to March 2012 at the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center hospitals. Externalization was present in 76 patients (23%); of whom, 24 (32%) had the Riata lead replaced shortly after screening. The remaining 52 patients were followed for 7.9  2.9 months, during which 5 patients were lost to follow-up and 2 patients exhibited electrical lead failure resulting in lead replacement, an electrical failure rate of 6.4% per year in externalized leads. In conclusion, prospective follow-up data on externalized Riata leads suggest an electrical failure rate in excess of 6% per year. This high failure rate warrants consideration of prophylactic replacement of externalized Riata leads. Further studies examining the natural history of Riata leads are warranted.

UI  - 24011739
TI  - Prevalence and prognostic role of various conduction disturbances in patients with the Brugada syndrome.
AB  - Prevalence and prognostic value of conduction disturbances in patients with the Brugada syndrome (BrS) remains poorly known. Electrocardiograms (ECGs) from 325 patients with BrS (47  13 years, 258 men) with spontaneous (n = 143) or drug-induced (n = 182) type 1 ECG were retrospectively reviewed. Two hundred twenty-six patients (70%) were asymptomatic, 73 patients (22%) presented with unexplained syncope, and 26 patients (8%) presented with sudden death or implantable cardioverter-defibrillator appropriated therapies at diagnosis or during a mean follow-up of 48  34 months. P-wave duration of 120 ms was present in 129 patients (40%), first degree atrioventricular block (AVB) in 113 (35%), right bundle branch block (BBB) in 90 (28%), and fascicular block in 52 (16%). Increased P-wave duration, first degree AVB, and right BBB were more often present in patients after drug challenge than in patients with spontaneous type 1 ST elevation. Left BBB was present in 3 patients. SCN5A mutation carriers had longer P-wave duration and longer PR and HV intervals. In multivariate analysis, first degree AVB was independently associated with sudden death or implantable cardioverter-defibrillator appropriated therapies (odds ratio 2.41, 95% confidence interval 1.01 to 5.73, p = 0.046) together with the presence of syncope and spontaneous type 1 ST elevation. In conclusion, conduction disturbances are frequent and sometimes diffuse in patients with BrS. First degree AVB is independently linked to outcome and may be proposed to be used for individual risk stratification.

UI  - 24009027
TI  - Development of a novel composite stroke and bleeding risk score in patients with atrial fibrillation: the AMADEUS Study.
AB  - We have developed and validated two novel composite scores for stroke/thromboembolism/bleeding that offer good discriminatory and predictive performance. However, these composite risk scores did not perform better than the easier and more practical "traditional" stroke and bleeding risk scores that are currently in use, which allow greater practicality and a more personalized balancing of risks.

UI  - 24008935
TI  - [High performance of an implantable Holter monitor in the detection of concealed paroxysmal atrial fibrillation in patients with cryptogenic stroke and a suspected embolic mechanism].
AB  - In our patients with probably embolic cryptogenic ischemic stroke, PAF was detected by Reveal XT ILR in 33.7%. One in four events occurred after the first six months of monitoring.

UI  - 24008604
TI  - Implantable loop recorders for assessment of syncope: increased diagnostic yield and less adverse outcomes with the latest generation devices.
AB  - Our results show that the new-generation device offer a higher diagnostic yield, mainly as a result of its improved automatic detection function, and is associated with fewer adverse outcomes.

UI  - 23999912
TI  - Safety and tolerability of levomilnacipran ER in major depressive disorder: results from an open-label, 48-week extension study.
AB  - No new or inconsistent safety/tolerability findings were discovered during longer-term evaluation.

UI  - 23999693
TI  - Exposure-response analysis of pertuzumab in HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer: absence of effect on QTc prolongation and other ECG parameters.
AB  - Cardiac monitoring and concentration-QTc modeling demonstrated that pertuzumab, combined with trastuzumab and docetaxel, had no clinically relevant effects on QTcF and other electrocardiogram parameters.

UI  - 23999452
TI  - Does hypoglycaemia increase the risk of cardiovascular events? A report from the ORIGIN trial.
AB  - Severe hypoglycaemia is associated with an increased risk for CV outcomes in people at high CV risk and dysglycaemia. Although allocation to insulin glargine vs. standard care was associated with an increased risk of severe and non-severe hypoglycaemia, the relative risk of CV outcomes with hypoglycaemia was lower with insulin glargine-based glucose-lowering therapy than with the standard glycaemic control. Trial Registration (ORIGIN ClinicalTrials.gov number NCT00069784).

UI  - 23995538
TI  - Outcome after implantation of a cardioverter-defibrillator in patients with Brugada syndrome: a multicenter study-part 2.
AB  - Appropriate therapies are more prevalent in symptomatic Brugada syndrome patients but are not insignificant in asymptomatic patients (1%/y). Optimal implantable cardioverter-defibrillator programming and follow-up dramatically reduce inappropriate shock. However, lead failure remains a major problem in this population.

UI  - 23993727
TI  - Myocardial fibrosis and QTc are reduced following treatment with spironolactone or amiloride in stroke survivors: a randomised placebo-controlled cross-over trial.
AB  - Procollagen-1-carboxy terminal peptide was reduced following treatment with spironolactone within a month. Further, this is the first study demonstrating amiloride could also improve myocardial fibrosis. The beneficial effects of both drugs on myocardial fibrosis, coupled with their effects on raising potassium translated to a shortening of QTc. Future studies should test the hypothesis that these drugs might reduce the risk of sudden cardiac death in stroke survivors.

UI  - 23993247
TI  - Targeted ablation at stable atrial fibrillation sources improves success over conventional ablation in high-risk patients: a substudy of the CONFIRM Trial.
AB  - Patients with "difficult to treat" AF exhibit more concurrent AF sources in more widespread biatrial distributions than other patients. These mechanisms explain the disappointing results of PV isolation, and how FIRM can identify patient-specific AF sources to enable successful ablation in this population.

UI  - 23993125
TI  - Efficacy of antiarrhythmic drugs in adults with congenital heart disease and supraventricular tachycardias.
AB  - Supraventricular tachycardias (SVTs) are a major cause of morbidity in adults with congenital heart disease (CHD). Few data exist on safety and efficacy of antiarrhythmic drugs in this population. Our aim was to determine the efficacy of antiarrhythmic drugs in adults with CHD and first-onset SVT on maintaining sinus rhythm after conversion. This was a multicenter retrospective study including adults with CHD and first-onset SVT from January 2008 to January 2011. First-onset SVT occurred in 92 of 7,171 patients without previous SVT (mean age 51  16 years, 57% women). SVTs included atrial fibrillation and flutter in >80% of the patients. Most of these patients had septal defects (50%) and left-sided lesions (21%). The acute management of SVTs resulted in sinus rhythm in 83 patients, and 89% of these patients were instituted on oral antiarrhythmics to prevent SVT recurrence. After a mean follow-up of 2.5  1.4 years, only 45% of the patients were free from SVT. Class III antiarrhythmics (85% sotalol and 15% amiodarone) were associated with a significantly lesser risk of SVT recurrence compared with all other antiarrhythmic drugs (hazard ratio 0.5, 95% confidence interval 0.27 to 0.96, p = 0.036). However, adverse effects of medication occurred in 22% of the patients, mainly in patients taking amiodarone. In conclusion, in adults with CHD and first-onset SVTs, class III antiarrhythmics are more efficacious in maintaining sinus rhythm after cardioversion than other antiarrhythmics. Sotalol may be considered as the first-choice therapy as this is associated with fewer adverse effects than amiodarone.

UI  - 23991661
TI  - Dabigatran versus warfarin in patients with mechanical heart valves.
AB  - The use of dabigatran in patients with mechanical heart valves was associated with increased rates of thromboembolic and bleeding complications, as compared with warfarin, thus showing no benefit and an excess risk. (Funded by Boehringer Ingelheim; ClinicalTrials.gov numbers, NCT01452347 and NCT01505881.).

UI  - 23988341
TI  - Relationship of quality of life with procedural success of atrial fibrillation (AF) ablation and postablation AF burden: substudy of the STAR AF randomized trial.
AB  - QOL after AF ablation improves regardless of procedural outcome. QOL scores were only negatively affected in patients with a high symptomatic burden of arrhythmia recurrence suggesting that significant reduction in AF burden can improve QOL without total elimination of AF.

UI  - 23988287
TI  - European experience of the convergent atrial fibrillation procedure: multicenter outcomes in consecutive patients.
AB  - This multicenter European collaborative effort demonstrated that the convergent procedure is a safe and efficacious treatment option for persistent and long-standing persistent AF.

UI  - 23986420
TI  - The efficacy and safety of intravenous thrombolysis with alteplase in the treatment of ischaemic stroke in a rural hospital.
AB  - The indications for intravenous thrombolysis in patients with IS should be strictly analysed so that the treatment is effective and safe especially in older patients, patients with greater severity of neurological symptoms and patients with old post-stroke lesions in baseline CT.

UI  - 23985703
TI  - Effects of a benidipine-based combination therapy on the risk of stroke according to stroke subtype: the COPE trial.
AB  - The Combination Therapy of Hypertension to Prevent Cardiovascular Events (COPE) trial compared the dihydropyridine T/L-type calcium channel blocker benidipine-based therapies when combined with an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), a -blocker (BB) or a thiazide diuretic (TD). The results suggested that benidipine combined with a BB appeared to be less beneficial in reducing the risk of stroke compared with the benidipine-TD combination (hazard ratio (HR): 2.31, P=0.0109). We further evaluated the treatment effects on different stroke subtypes among the three benidipine-based regimens. The COPE trial was an investigator-initiated, multicenter study with PROBE design. Patients with atrial fibrillation or flutter were excluded from the study. All stroke events were subclassified with the Trial of Org 10,172 in Acute Stroke Treatment (TOAST) criteria. The total incidence of stroke was 4.7, hemorrhagic stroke was 1.6 and ischemic stroke was 2.5 per 1000 person-years. The incidence of lacunar stroke was 1.1, large-artery stroke was 0.6, cardioembolic stroke was 0.3, unknown ischemic type was 0.6 and transient ischemic attack was 0.6 per 1000 person-years. Although few differences in stroke subtypes were observed among the three treatment groups, multi-adjusted HRs for the incidence rates of all types of stroke, hemorrhagic stroke and ischemic stroke were significantly higher with the benidipine-BB regimen than with the benidipine-TD regimen. The incidence of both hemorrhagic and ischemic stroke in the benidipine-ARB regimen was not different compared with the other two treatment regimens. This prespecified sub-analysis suggested that a blood pressure-lowering therapy with a benidipine-TD regimen might be beneficial for hypertensive patients to prevent both hemorrhagic and ischemic stroke.

UI  - 23983247
TI  - Discrete prepotential as an indicator of successful ablation in patients with coronary cusp ventricular arrhythmia.
AB  - A discrete prepotential was seen in 9 (26%) of 35 patients with CC-VA. In left and right CC-VA, the site of a discrete prepotential with 50 ms activation time may indicate a successful ablation site.

UI  - 23983245
TI  - Evaluation and reduction of asymptomatic cerebral embolism in ablation of atrial fibrillation, but high prevalence of chronic silent infarction: results of the evaluation of reduction of asymptomatic cerebral embolism trial.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov; Identifier: NCT01520532.

UI  - 23981312
TI  - Sudden cardiac death associated with J wave elevation in the inferolateral leads: insights from a multicenter registry.
AB  - 

UI  - 23981265
TI  - National observatory on the therapeutic management in ambulatory care patients aged 65 and over, with type 2 diabetes, chronic pain or atrial fibrillation.
AB  - The primary objective of the S.AGES cohort is to describe the real-life therapeutic care of elderly patients. Patients and methods. This is a prospective observational cohort study of 3700 non-institutionalized patients over the age of 65 years with either type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), chronic pain or atrial fibrillation (AF) recruited by French general practitioners (GPs). Follow-up is planned for 3 years. Baseline characteristics. In the chronic pain sub-cohort, 33% of patients are treated with only grade 1 analgesics, 29% with grade 2 analgesics and 3% with grade 3 analgesics, and 22% have no pain treatment. In the T2DM sub-cohort, 61% of patients have well-controlled diabetes (Hb1c<7%) and 18% are treated with insulin. In the AF sub-cohort, 65% of patients have a CHADS2 score greater than 2, 77% are treated with oral anticoagulants, 17% with platelet inhibitors, 40% with antiarrhythmic drugs and 56% with rate slowing medications. Conclusion. The S.AGES cohort presents a unique opportunity to clarify the real-life therapeutic management of ambulatory elderly subjects and will help to identify the factors associated with the occurrence of major clinical events.

UI  - 23981009
TI  - Patient, physician, and procedural factors influencing the use of defibrillation testing during initial implantable cardioverter defibrillator insertion: findings from the NCDR.
AB  - DFT testing is not performed in many (29%) patients in clinical practice. Patients who did not undergo testing were more likely to have adverse events and to be older with more comorbidities, which could explain why DFT testing was avoided. Prospective randomized data are needed to determine the impact of DFT testing on outcome.

UI  - 23979627
TI  - Waveform analysis-guided treatment versus a standard shock-first protocol for the treatment of out-of-hospital cardiac arrest presenting in ventricular fibrillation: results of an international randomized, controlled trial.
AB  - Use of a waveform analysis algorithm to guide the initial treatment of out-of-hospital cardiac arrest patients presenting in VF did not improve overall survival compared with a standard shock-first protocol. Further study is recommended to examine the role of waveform analysis for the guided management of VF.

UI  - 23979626
TI  - Safety and efficacy of a totally subcutaneous implantable-cardioverter defibrillator.
AB  - The findings support the efficacy and safety of the S-ICD System for the treatment of life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias.

UI  - 23979566
TI  - Association between renal function, diastolic dysfunction, and postoperative atrial fibrillation following cardiac surgery.
AB  - In patients undergoing cardiac surgery, decreased eGFR was associated with an increased rate of LV diastolic dysfunction with a subsequent increase in the rate of POAF.

UI  - 23979564
TI  - Gender differences in patients with atrial fibrillation.
AB  - In everyday management of patients with AF, there were no differences in treatment and major outcomes, in particular stroke, between women and men. This finding is opposed to earlier studies reporting OAC undertreatment of women and higher stroke rates.

UI  - 23978222
TI  - A double-blind placebo-controlled cross-over study of the vascular effects of midodrine in neuropathic compared with hyperadrenergic postural tachycardia syndrome.
AB  - POTS (postural tachycardia syndrome) is a chronic form of OI (orthostatic intolerance). Neuropathic POTS is characterized by decreased adrenergic vasoconstriction, whereas hyperadrenergic POTS exhibits increased adrenergic vasoconstriction. We hypothesized that midodrine, an 1-adrenergic receptor agonist, would increase CVR (calf vascular resistance), decrease C(v) (calf venous capacitance) and decrease orthostatic tachycardia in neuropathic POTS, but not alter haemodynamics in hyperadrenergic POTS. A total of 20 POTS patients (12 neuropathic and eight hyperadrenergic), ages 12-20 years, participated in this randomized placebo-controlled double-blind cross-over study. Of these subjects, 15 were female. POTS subjects received 2 weeks of treatment with midodrine or placebo, with increased dosing from 2.5 to 10 mg three times daily. Following a 7-day drug-washout period, subjects received the cross-over treatment. HR (heart rate), MAP (mean arterial pressure), Q(calf) (calf blood flow) and CVR were measured supine and during 35 HUT (head-up tilt). C(v) was measured supine. In neuropathic POTS, midodrine decreased supine HR, Q(calf) and C(v), while increasing MAP and CVR compared with placebo. During HUT, in neuropathic POTS, midodrine decreased HR, Q(calf) and C(v), while increasing MAP and CVR. In hyperadrenergic POTS, placebo and midodrine both decreased upright HR and increased supine CVR. Placebo also increased supine C(v), compared with midodrine in hyperadrenergic POTS. Therefore midodrine improved postural tachycardia in neuropathic POTS by increasing CVR and decreasing Q(calf) and C(v), whereas these effects were not seen in hyperadrenergic POTS patients who experienced a placebo effect. This suggests that midodrine is probably an effective treatment for neuropathic POTS, but not for hyperadrenergic POTS.

UI  - 23973954
TI  - Impact of the right ventricular lead position on clinical outcome and on the incidence of ventricular tachyarrhythmias in patients with CRT-D.
AB  - In CRT-D patients, there is no benefit of nonapical RV lead location in clinical outcome or echocardiographic response. Moreover, nonapical RV lead location is associated with an increased risk of ventricular tachyarrhythmias, particularly in the first year after device implantation.

UI  - 23973952
TI  - Left atrial appendage closure followed by 6 weeks of antithrombotic therapy: a prospective single-center experience.
AB  - Implantation of both LAA closure devices can be performed with high success rates in high-risk patients. Postprocedural 6 weeks antithrombotic therapy followed by aspirin therapy needs to be confirmed in a larger study.

UI  - 23973946
TI  - New image processing and noise reduction technology allows reduction of radiation exposure in complex electrophysiologic interventions while maintaining optimal image quality: a randomized clinical trial.
AB  - The novel imaging technology, Allura Clarity, significantly reduces patient and operator dose in complex EP procedures while maintaining image quality.

UI  - 23973694
TI  - Autonomic denervation added to pulmonary vein isolation for paroxysmal atrial fibrillation: a randomized clinical trial.
AB  - Addition of GP ablation to PVI confers a significantly higher success rate compared with either PVI or GP alone in patients with PAF.

UI  - 23972347
TI  - Predictors of regional variations in hospitalizations following emergency department visits for atrial fibrillation.
AB  - The emergency department (ED) is often where atrial fibrillation (AF) is first detected and acutely treated and affected patients dispositioned. We used the Nationwide Emergency Department Sample to estimate the percentage of visits resulting in hospitalization and investigate associations between patient and hospital characteristics with hospitalization at the national and regional levels. We conducted a cross-sectional study of adults with AF listed as the primary ED diagnosis in the 2007 to 2009 Nationwide Emergency Department Sample. We performed multivariate logistic regression analyses investigating the associations between prespecified patient and hospital characteristics with hospitalization. From 2007 to 2009, there were 1,320,123 weighted ED visits for AF, with 69% hospitalized nationally. Mean regional hospitalization proportions were: Northeast (74%), Midwest (68%), South (74%), and West (57%). The highest odds ratios for predicting hospitalization were heart failure (3.85, 95% confidence interval [CI] 3.66 to 4.02), chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (2.47, 95% CI 2.34 to 2.61), and coronary artery disease (1.65, 95% CI 1.58 to 1.73). After adjusting for age, privately insured (0.77, 95% CI 0.73 to 0.81) and self-pay (0.77 95% CI 0.66 to 0.90) patients had lower odds compared with Medicare recipients, whereas Medicaid (1.21, 95% CI 1.11 to 1.32) patients tended to have higher odds. Patients living in low-income zip codes (1.18, 95% CI 1.12 to 1.25) and patients treated at large metropolitan hospitals (1.75, 95% CI 1.59 to 1.93) had higher odds. In conclusion, our analysis showed considerable regional variation in the management of patients with AF in the ED and in associations between patient socioeconomic and hospital characteristics with ED disposition; adapting best practices from among these variations in management could reduce hospitalizations and health-care expenses.

UI  - 23969476
TI  - Prognosis of the bradycardia pacemaker recipient assessed at first implantation: a nationwide cohort study.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT00135174.

UI  - 23966309
TI  - Renal function and outcomes in anticoagulated patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation: the AMADEUS trial.
AB  - Renal impairment (CrCl <60 mL/min) doubles the risk of stroke and increased the risk of major bleeding by almost 60% in anticoagulated patients with AF. Renal impairment was additive to stroke risk prediction scores based on a significant NRI, but no significant improvement in discrimination ability (based on c-indexes) for CHA2DS2VASc or CHADS2 was observed.

UI  - 23960444
TI  - Risk factors between patients with lone and non-lone atrial fibrillation.
AB  - Clinical factors such as tall stature, lean body mass, obstructive sleep apnea, alcohol or caffeine, smoking, endurance sports, and genetic factors are proposed as risk factors for lone atrial fibrillation (LAF). The KORAF (KORean Atrial Fibrillation) study is a retrospective multicenter registry that enrolled 3,570 consecutive atrial fibrillation (AF) patients. Data on risk factors were available for 2,133 patients, of whom 398 (18.7%) were identified as having LAF. In univariate analysis, patients with LAF were more likely to be men (82.4% vs 59.8%, P < 0.001) and current smokers (25.9% vs 15.6%, P < 0.01), alcohol drinkers (55.3% vs 31.2%, P < 0.01) and frequent consumers of caffeinated beverages (> 2 cups/day) (31.7% vs 19.3%, P < 0.01), and have a family history of AF (9.0% vs 2.6%, P < 0.001) than the non-LAF patients. Multivariate analysis showed that male gender (OR, 2.30; 95% CI, 1.61-3.27, P < 0.01), family history of AF (OR, 3.12; 95% CI, 1.91-5.12, P < 0.01), current alcohol use (OR, 2.01; 95% CI, 1.46-2.76, P < 0.01), and frequent caffeinated beverage consumption (OR, 1.66; 95% CI, 1.20-2.29, P < 0.01) were independently associated with LAF. In Korean patients, LAF is more closely associated with male gender, family history of AF, current alcohol and frequent caffeinated beverage consumption than non-LAF.

UI  - 23958417
TI  - A comparison of clinical characteristics and long-term prognosis in asymptomatic and symptomatic patients with first-diagnosed atrial fibrillation: the Belgrade Atrial Fibrillation Study.
AB  - In a 'real-world' setting, patients with asymptomatic presentation of their first-diagnosed AF could have different risk profile and long-term outcomes compared to those with symptomatic AF. Whether more intensive monitoring and comprehensive AF management including AF ablation at early stage following the incident episode of AF and increased quality of oral anticoagulation could alter the long-term prognosis of these patients requires further investigation.

UI  - 23954267
TI  - Flecainide therapy suppresses exercise-induced ventricular arrhythmias in patients with CASQ2-associated catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia.
AB  - Flecainide can completely prevent ventricular arrhythmia during exercise and partially prevent recurrent ICD shocks in high-risk patients with CPVT2.

UI  - 23952291
TI  - The incidence of asymptomatic cerebral microthromboembolism after atrial fibrillation ablation: comparison of warfarin and dabigatran.
AB  - The incidence of asymptomatic cerebral microthromboembolism and hemopericardium after AF ablation was significantly lower with perioperative warfarin therapy than with dabigatran therapy. Dabigatran may not be an effective alternative to warfarin for AF ablation, especially in patients who undergo cardioversion.

UI  - 23948862
TI  - Do high levels of n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids in cell membranes increase the risk of postoperative atrial fibrillation?
AB  - Our findings suggest that inflammatory mediators are not associated with the occurrence of POAF. Interestingly, high n-3 LC-PUFA levels in RBC membranes appear to increase the risk of POAF.

UI  - 23948115
TI  - Anticoagulation in "real world" patients with atrial fibrillation in Italy: results from the ISPAF (Indagine Sicoa Paziente Con Fibrillazione Atriale) survey study.
AB  - The ISPAF study shows that in an Italian population of real world patients with AF adherence to current guidelines on OAC therapy based on stroke-risk scoring system is rather high, although rate of prescription should be increased. However, contrary to recommendations, in a high proportion of low-risk patients OAC therapy is still prescribed, and this might expose patients to unjustified risks.

UI  - 23948108
TI  - Impact of atrial fibrillation on early complications and one year-survival after cardioverter defibrillator implantation: results from the German DEVICE registry.
AB  - The German DEVICE registry demonstrates that patients with AF who receive ICD devices are older, have more co-morbidity and more severe heart failure. AF carries an independent 1.39 fold risk (95% CI 1.02-1.89) of death after one year in patients only with first ICD implantation.

UI  - 23945170
TI  - Marine n-3 fatty acids in adipose tissue and development of atrial fibrillation: a Danish cohort study.
AB  - There was no statistically significant association between the content of marine n-3 PUFA in adipose tissue and the development of AF; however, data showed a monotonic, negative dose-response trend suggestive of a negative association.

UI  - 23945031
TI  - The clinical evaluation of International Normalized Ratio variability and control in conventional oral anticoagulant administration by use of the variance growth rate.
AB  - Patients with unstable anticoagulation have a significantly increased risk of 'clinical events' at 3 and 6months before an event. The VGR can be incorporated into computer-dosage programs, and may offer additional safety when oral anticoagulation is monitored.

UI  - 23944204
TI  - Hyperoxia in the intensive care unit and outcome after out-of-hospital ventricular fibrillation cardiac arrest.
AB  - Hyperoxia within the first 24 hours was not associated with increased hospital mortality in patients admitted to ICU following out-of-hospital ventricular fibrillation cardiac arrest.

UI  - 23943094
TI  - Factors associated with undertreatment of atrial fibrillation in geriatric outpatients with Alzheimer disease.
AB  - Despite the national and international recommendations, nearly half of AD patients with AF do not receive OACs or APAs. A history of cardiovascular disease-in particular, hypertension-improves access to treatment, but use of NSAIDs and living alone without home care seem to be the main factors associated with non-prescription of OACs or APAs.

UI  - 23942679
TI  - Association between early surgical intervention vs watchful waiting and outcomes for mitral regurgitation due to flail mitral valve leaflets.
AB  - Among registry patients with mitral valve regurgitation due to flail mitral leaflets, performance of early mitral surgery compared with initial medical management was associated with greater long-term survival and a lower risk of heart failure, with no difference in new-onset atrial fibrillation.

UI  - 23941163
TI  - Warfarin use in hemodialysis patients with atrial fibrillation: decisions based on uncertainty.
AB  - A randomized controlled trial of warfarin use in hemodialysis patients with atrial fibrillation would clarify the risks and benefits of warfarin use in this population.

UI  - 23936059
TI  - Long QT interval in Turner syndrome--a high prevalence of LQTS gene mutations.
AB  - NCT00624949. https://register.clinicaltrials.gov/prs/app/action/SelectProtocol/sid/S0001FLI/selectaction/View/ts/3/uid/U000099E.

UI  - 23927866
TI  - Low incidence of procedure-related major adverse cardiac events after alcohol septal ablation for symptomatic hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy.
AB  - The results of the multicentre study demonstrate that ASA appears safe and efficacious, with low early mortality. The most frequent major complication after ASA was CHB (17%), which occurred late or was recurrent in almost one-third of these patients; 8% of patients required permanent pacemaker implantation. Independent predictors of CHB development were intraprocedural bundle branch block and age. Difficulty in predicting CHB should lead to close postprocedural monitoring and hospital stays lasting at least 5 days.

UI  - 23924888
TI  - Six-year follow-up of catheter ablation in paroxysmal atrial fibrillation.
AB  - The vast majority of drug-resistant PAF could be controlled by EEPVI without an additional atrial substrate modification. No progression toward persistent AF was observed during a median follow-up of 6 years.

UI  - 23921301
TI  - Electrocardiographic safety of cangrelor, a new intravenous antiplatelet agent: a randomized, double-blind, placebo- and moxifloxacin-controlled thorough QT study.
AB  - Cangrelor is an intravenous P2Y12 inhibitor under investigation as an antiplatelet drug in the setting of acute coronary syndromes. To determine the electrophysiologic safety of parenteral cangrelor, cardiac repolarization effects were measured in 67 healthy volunteers (aged 18-45 years) in a randomized crossover design, including 4 treatment sequences of therapeutic cangrelor, supratherapeutic cangrelor, placebo, and moxifloxacin (positive control). Triplicate electrocardiogram measurements and pharmacokinetic samples were collected at baseline and 9 time points postdose on day 1. For both cangrelor and moxifloxacin, time-matched, placebo-adjusted change in QT from baseline was evaluated using an individual (QTcI) heart rate correction. After cangrelor dosing, change in QTcI was <5 ms at all times points and all corresponding upper 2-sided 90% confidence intervals (CIs) were <10 ms. Although moxifloxacin failed to show a lower CI >5 ms, expected time trends and lower CI >4.0 ms demonstrate assay sensitivity. QTcI was not affected by plasma concentrations of cangrelor metabolites, and cangrelor had no other adverse effects on electrocardiographic parameters. Clinically, cangrelor exposure was well tolerated. Thus, this thorough QT study demonstrated that therapeutic and supratherapeutic cangrelor doses do not adversely affect cardiac repolarization in normal volunteers (clinicaltrials.gov; identifier NCT00699504).

UI  - 23920077
TI  - Novel approach to epicardial pacemaker implantation in patients with limited venous access.
AB  - Epicardial pacemaker implantation through pericardial reflections is an effective alternative therapy for those patients requiring physiologic pacing in whom venous access is limited.

UI  - 23917665
TI  - Lack of reliable clinical predictors to identify obstructive sleep apnea in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.
AB  - Consistent clinical predictors of obstructive sleep apnea are lacking for patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, which suggests that objective sleep evaluations should be considered in this population, particularly among elderly patients with atrial fibrillation.

UI  - 23916928
TI  - A randomized controlled trial to prevent post-operative atrial fibrillation by antioxidant reinforcement.
AB  - This safe, well-tolerated, and low-cost regimen, consisting of n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids plus vitamins C and E supplementation, favorably affected post-operative atrial fibrillation, increased antioxidant potential, and attenuated oxidative stress and inflammation. (Prevention of Post-Operative Atrial Fibrillation: Pathophysiological Characterization of a Pharmacological Intervention Based on a Novel Model of Nonhypoxic Pre-Conditioning; ISRCTN45347268).

UI  - 23913464
TI  - Rate versus rhythm control and outcomes in patients with atrial fibrillation and chronic kidney disease: data from the GUSTO-III Trial.
AB  - Treatment with a rhythm or rate control strategy does not signifi cantly impact short-term or long-term mortality in patients with post-MI AF, regardless of kidney disease status. Future studies to investigate the optimal management of AF in CKD patients are needed.

UI  - 23906859
TI  - Prediction of symptomatic embolism in infective endocarditis: construction and validation of a risk calculator in a multicenter cohort.
AB  - The risk for embolism during infective endocarditis can be quantified at admission using a simple and accurate calculator. It might be useful for facilitating therapeutic decisions.

UI  - 23899913
TI  - Noninvasive cardiac event monitoring to detect atrial fibrillation after ischemic stroke: a randomized, controlled trial.
AB  - http://www.controlled-trials.com/isrctn/. Unique identifier: ISRCTN97412358.

UI  - 23892385
TI  - Left atrial expansion index predicts atrial fibrillation in dyspnea.
AB  - The LA expansion index is associated with the presence of AF, and a reduced LA expansion index has a strong association with persistent AF.

UI  - 23892341
TI  - Corticosteroid use during pulmonary vein isolation is associated with a higher prevalence of dormant pulmonary vein conduction.
AB  - A single bolus of hydrocortisone 250 mg IV prior to PVI results in greater radiofrequency requirements for PVI and a higher prevalence of dormant PV conduction unmasked by adenosine. The utility of these approaches requires evaluation in a long-term prospective randomized study.

UI  - 23892201
TI  - The effects of apixaban on hospitalizations in patients with different types of atrial fibrillation: insights from the AVERROES trial.
AB  - In AVERROES, patients on apixaban therapy were less likely to be hospitalized. This may have important consequences for patients' well-being and for healthcare resources. This trial is registered underClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00496769.

UI  - 23891574
TI  - Phrenic nerve paralysis during cryoballoon ablation for atrial fibrillation: a comparison between the first- and second-generation balloon.
AB  - Right PNP seems to occur in a significantly larger number of patients with the second-generation CB-A. However, this complication is reversible in nearly all cases on short-term follow-up. More refined phrenic nerve monitoring during right-sided pulmonary vein ablation and less vigorous wedging maneuvers in the pulmonary vein ostia might significantly reduce the occurrence of this complication.

UI  - 23891430
TI  - Antitachycardia pacing for very fast ventricular tachycardia and low-energy shock for ventricular arrhythmias in patients with implantable defibrillators.
AB  - Implantable cardioverter-defibrillator therapy in the form of high-energy shock (HES) is associated with adverse effects. This study evaluated an alternative therapy to HES, including antitachycardia pacing (ATP) for very fast ventricular tachycardia (VFVT) and low-energy shock (LES) 5 J for ventricular tachycardia (VT) of any cycle length (CL). This multicenter study recruited 602 patients with standard indications for an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator. Programming was standardized into 3 zones: (1) ventricular fibrillation (VF) CL of <200 ms treated with HES; (2) VFVT defined within the VF zone (CL, 200 to 250 ms) treated with 2 ATP bursts, LES, and HES; and (3) fast ventricular tachycardia (CL, 251 to 320 ms) and slow VT (CL, >320 ms) treated with 3 ATP bursts, LES, and HES. The primary end point was ATP and LES efficacy and safety. After a mean follow-up of 19  8 months, 2,815 device activations were recorded in 152 patients. Of 67 VFVT episodes, 34 reverted with combined ATP and LES (success rate 50.7%) with first and second ATPs successful in 36% and 13.8%, respectively. LES was used in 39 fast ventricular tachycardia and 60 slow VT episodes with success rates of 53.8% and 73.3%, respectively. Syncope occurred in 19.4%, 16.2%, and 1% of episodes because of VFVT, VF, and VT CL >250 ms, respectively. In conclusion, tiered ATP and LES therapy terminates >50% of VFVT episodes (CL, 200 to 250 ms), which otherwise would fall within the VF zone and be treated exclusively with HES. LES is efficacious and safe in patients with VTCL >250 ms with extremely low syncope rates. Limitation of ATP to a single burst in VFVT is recommended to minimize syncope.

UI  - 23890856
TI  - Effects of long-term -3 polyunsaturated fatty acid supplementation on paroxysmal atrial tachyarrhythmia burden in patients with implanted pacemakers: results from a prospective randomised study.
AB  - Long-term fish oil supplementation did not suppress AT/AF burden but may have attenuated its temporal progression related to aging and sinus node disease.

UI  - 23889974
TI  - Mutation-positive arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia/cardiomyopathy: the triangle of dysplasia displaced.
AB  - Mutation-positive ARVD/C exhibits a previously unrecognized characteristic pattern of disease involving the basal inferior and anterior RV, and the posterolateral LV. The RV apex is only involved in advanced ARVD/C, typically as a part of global RV involvement. These results displace the RV apex from the Triangle of Dysplasia, and provide insights into the pathophysiology of ARVD/C.

UI  - 23889915
TI  - Enhanced efficiency of a novel porous tip irrigated RF ablation catheter for pulmonary vein isolation.
AB  - Using the novel irrigated tip SF catheter, PVI is achieved within a shorter ablation and procedural durations. The underlying mechanisms and potential differences in RF lesion size remain to be elucidated.

UI  - 23889863
TI  - Clinical impact, safety, and efficacy of single- versus dual-coil ICD leads in MADIT-CRT.
AB  - Patients with single-coil ICD leads have slightly higher DFTs compared to those with dual-coil leads, but the efficacy, safety, and clinical impact on atrial tachyarrhythmias, and mortality is similar. Implantation of single-coil ICD leads may be favorable in most patients.

UI  - 23885605
TI  - [Impacts of electroacupuncture at Lingtai (GV 10) and Shendao (GV 11) on premature heartbeat].
AB  - Electroacupuncture at Lingtai (GV 10) and Shendao (GV 11) has specific clinical efficacy on premature heartbeat.

UI  - 23884195
TI  - Diffuse ventricular fibrosis is a late outcome of tachycardia-mediated cardiomyopathy after successful ablation.
AB  - Tachycardia-mediated cardiomyopathy patients exhibit differences in LV structure and function including diffuse fibrosis long after arrhythmia cure, indicating that recovery is incomplete.

UI  - 23881862
TI  - Influence of diabetes mellitus on inappropriate and appropriate implantable cardioverter-defibrillator therapy and mortality in the Multicenter Automatic Defibrillator Implantation Trial-Reduce Inappropriate Therapy (MADIT-RIT) Trial.
AB  - URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER: NCT00947310.

UI  - 23881779
TI  - Impact of stepwise ablation on the biatrial substrate in patients with persistent atrial fibrillation and heart failure.
AB  - Remote LA CFE area was progressively reduced following PVI and linear lesions, and LA ablation reduced right atrial CFE area. Reduction of CFE area at sites remote from ablation would suggest either regression of the advanced atrial substrate or that these CFE were functional phenomena. Nevertheless, in an advanced atrial fibrillation substrate, linear lesions after PVI diminished the target area for CFE ablation, and complete lesions resulted in a favorable clinical outcome.

UI  - 23879277
TI  - Potential prevention of pacing-induced heart failure using simple pacemaker programming algorithm.
AB  - Predominant RVP in patients without symptoms of HF at baseline may be responsible for worse performance in cardiopulmonary exercise test, higher BNP concentrations and impairment of LV function. Specific DDDR pacemaker programming promotes intrinsic AV conduction and may prevent the development of pacing-induced HF.

UI  - 23877733
TI  - Optimal strength and number of shocks at upper limit of vulnerability testing required to predict high defibrillation threshold without inducing ventricular fibrillation.
AB  - The 15-J ULV test with 3 coupling intervals could correctly identify high-DFT patients and reduce the necessity for VF induction at defibrillator implantation.

UI  - 23877732
TI  - Implantable loop recorder allows an etiologic diagnosis in one-third of patients. Results of the Spanish reveal registry.
AB  - One-third of patients obtained a final diagnosis with the ILR, independent of the baseline characteristics. Only the cause of implantation provided different rates of final diagnosis.

UI  - 23875908
TI  - Ibutilide increases the variability and complexity of atrial fibrillation electrograms: antiarrhythmic insights using signal analyses.
AB  - Novel EGM signal analysis techniques reveal that ibutilide administration causes increased complexity in the atrial electrical activation pattern with decreasing rate. These findings may be explained by the progressive destabilization of higher frequency, more homogeneous primary drivers of AF over the course of ibutilide administration, and/or less uniform propagation of atrial activation, until AF maintenance becomes more difficult and either transforms to atrial tachycardia or terminates to SR.

UI  - 23875907
TI  - Variable procedural strategies adapted to anatomical characteristics in catheter ablation of the cavotricuspid isthmus using a preoperative multidetector computed tomography analysis.
AB  - Changing the procedural strategies by adaptating them to the anatomical characteristics improved the outcomes of the CTI ablation.

UI  - 23875875
TI  - Left atrial diverticula in patients undergoing atrial fibrillation ablation: morphologic analysis and clinical impact.
AB  - LAD are present in about one-fourth of patients undergoing AF ablation and, in general, they have no impact on its safety and efficacy. However, occasionally, radiofrequency energy delivery in a LAD can cause tissue overheating and perforation.

UI  - 23875810
TI  - Impact of low-dose dipyridamole injection on adenosine test after pulmonary vein isolation.
AB  - Low-dose dipyridamole safely prolongs the electrophysiological effects of adenosine test without provoking additional PV reconnection. This allows sustained visualization and facilitates complete RF elimination of the electrical conduction gap.

UI  - 23872690
TI  - Response of right ventricular size to treatment with cardiac resynchronization therapy and the risk of ventricular tachyarrhythmias in MADIT-CRT.
AB  - Our findings suggest that the RV may have an important role in determining the antiarrhythmic effect of CRT independent of the effect of the device on the left ventricle.

UI  - 23870607
TI  - Mixed treatment comparison meta-analysis of aspirin, warfarin, and new anticoagulants for stroke prevention in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation.
AB  - This mixed treatment comparison meta-analysis found similarity between warfarin and the new anticoagulants with the exception of one comparison, in which warfarin was associated with more non-major bleeding than apixaban. Thus, the new anticoagulants are therapeutically comparable when warfarin is inappropriate.

UI  - 23869655
TI  - Effect of intravenous lipid emulsion in patients with acute glyphosate intoxication.
AB  - ILE administration was associated with lower incidence of hypotension and arrhythmia in patients with acute glyphosate intoxication. ILE administration seems to be an effective treatment modality in patients who ingested sufficient amount of glyphosate herbicide that is expected to bring about significant toxicity.

UI  - 23868858
TI  - Prospective randomized study to assess the efficacy of site and rate of atrial pacing on long-term progression of atrial fibrillation in sick sinus syndrome: Septal Pacing for Atrial Fibrillation Suppression Evaluation (SAFE) Study.
AB  - URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER: NCT00419640.

UI  - 23868192
TI  - Provider specialty and atrial fibrillation treatment strategies in United States community practice: findings from the ORBIT-AF registry.
AB  - Our data demonstrate important differences between provider specialties, the demographics of the AF patient population treated, and treatment strategies-particularly for rhythm control and anticoagulation therapy.

UI  - 23867365
TI  - Cardiac characteristics and long-term outcome in Andersen-Tawil syndrome patients related to KCNJ2 mutation.
AB  - Despite a severe clinical presentation with a very high rate of ventricular arrhythmias, the arrhythmic prognosis of the ATS patients is relatively good under treatment.

UI  - 23861381
TI  - Exercise capacity and N-terminal pro-brain natriuretic peptide levels with biventricular vs. right ventricular pacing for atrioventricular block: results from the PREVENT-HF German Substudy.
AB  - Our study suggests that BIV pacing produces better exercise capacity over 1 year compared with RV pacing in patients without advanced heart failure and AV block. In contrast, we observed no significant changes of NT-proBNP. Larger trials will allow appraising the clinical usefulness of BIV pacing in AV block. ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT00170326.

UI  - 23858023
TI  - Inappropriate use of antiarrhythmic drugs in paroxysmal and persistent atrial fibrillation in a large contemporary international survey: insights from RealiseAF.
AB  - The use of AADs for persistent or paroxysmal AF in this large contemporary international survey showed some deviations from international guidelines. The highest discordance came with the use of amiodarone in first line. Clearly, there is a large discrepancy between published guidelines and current practice.

UI  - 23857248
TI  - Preladenant, a selective adenosine AA receptor antagonist, is not associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
AB  - At clinical and supratherapeutic doses, preladenant is not associated with QTc prolongation.

UI  - 23855355
TI  - Polycystic ovary syndrome is associated with P-wave prolongation and increased P-wave dispersion.
AB  - Patients with PCOS have prolonged Pmax and Pdis. The increase in those parameters may be an indicator for identification of patients at increased risk of atrial fibrillation.

UI  - 23853072
TI  - Impact of ageing on presentation and outcome of mitral regurgitation due to flail leaflet: a multicentre international study.
AB  - Both older and younger patients incurred excess risk of complications. Older patients suffered excess mortality, AF, and HF, whereas younger incurred excess morbidity linked to subsequent long-term excess mortality. The excess risks of uncorrected degenerative MR should be considered in deliberating surgical management, which significantly reduced mortality in older patients and HF in younger patients.

UI  - 23851514
TI  - A prospective evaluation of haemodynamics, functional status, and quality of life after radiofrequency catheter ablation of long-standing persistent atrial fibrillation.
AB  - Ablation of long-standing persistent atrial fibrillation was associated with significant recovery of haemodynamics and exercise capacity that projected onto the long-term improvement in quality of life.

UI  - 23851513
TI  - Atrial-based pacing has no benefit over ventricular pacing in preventing atrial arrhythmias in adults with congenital heart disease.
AB  - In contrast to the general population, atrial-based pacing was not associated with a lower incidence of atrial arrhythmia in adults with CHD.

UI  - 23850913
TI  - Neurohormonal, structural, and functional recovery pattern after premature ventricular complex ablation is independent of structural heart disease status in patients with depressed left ventricular ejection fraction: a prospective multicenter study.
AB  - Independently of the presence of SHD, the SSA of frequent PVC in patients with depressed LVEF induced a progressive clinical and functional improvement. Improvement in heart failure parameters was related to baseline PVC burden and persistence of ablation success.

UI  - 23850908
TI  - Thromboembolic complications after cardioversion of acute atrial fibrillation: the FinCV (Finnish CardioVersion) study.
AB  - The incidence of post-cardioversion thromboembolic complications is high in certain subgroups of patients when no anticoagulation is used after cardioversion of acute atrial fibrillation. (Safety of Cardioversion of Acute Atrial Fibrillation [FinCV]; NCT01380574).

UI  - 23850252
TI  - Early echocardiographic deformation analysis for the prediction of sudden cardiac death and life-threatening arrhythmias after myocardial infarction.
AB  - Both GLS and MD were significantly and independently related to SCD/VA in these patients with acute MI and, in particular, GLS improved risk stratification above and beyond existing risk factors.

UI  - 23850251
TI  - Strain echocardiography improves risk prediction of ventricular arrhythmias after myocardial infarction.
AB  - Mechanical dispersion by strain echocardiography predicted arrhythmic events independently of LVEF in this prospective, multicenter study of patients after MI. A combination of mechanical dispersion and global strain may improve the selection of patients after MI for implantable cardioverter-defibrillator therapy, particularly in patients with LVEFs >35% who did not fulfill current implantable cardioverter-defibrillator indications.

UI  - 23848529
TI  - Live maternal speech and singing have beneficial effects on hospitalized preterm infants.
AB  - A renewed connection to the mother's voice can be an important and significant experience for preterm infants. Exposure to maternal speech and singing shows significant early beneficial effects on physiological state, such as oxygen saturation levels, number of critical events and prevalence of calm alert state. These findings have implications for NICU interventions, encouraging maternal interaction with their medically stable preterm infants.

UI  - 23845796
TI  - Complete atrioventricular block does not reduce long-term mortality in patients with permanent atrial fibrillation treated with cardiac resynchronization therapy.
AB  - AVJ block did not improve survival for patients in AF treated with CRT. Basal NYHA functional class IV, poor renal function, and LVEF were the independent predictors of mortality.

UI  - 23844751
TI  - Impact of cardiac telemetry on patient safety and cost.
AB  - Reducing the use of telemetry on nonindicated days may provide an opportunity for institutions to safely reduce cost as well as staff time and effort, while maintaining and potentially increasing patient safety.

UI  - 23843099
TI  - Dabigatran compared with warfarin in patients with atrial fibrillation and symptomatic heart failure: a subgroup analysis of the RE-LY trial.
AB  - The overall benefits of dabigatran for stroke/SE prevention, and major and intracranial bleeding, relative to warfarin in the RE-LY trial were consistent in patients with and without HF.

UI  - 23839902
TI  - n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids and atrial fibrillation in patients with chronic heart failure: the GISSI-HF trial.
AB  - Despite an inverse relationship between plasma n-3 PUFA levels and prevalent AF, this study found no evidence that 1 g daily n-3 PUFA supplementation in patients with chronic HF reduces incident AF.

UI  - 23833046
TI  - Epidemiology of symptomatic drug-induced long QT syndrome and Torsade de Pointes in Germany.
AB  - While European annual reporting rates based on spontaneous reports suggest an annual diLQTS/TdP incidence of 0.26 per million in Germany, we estimated a considerably higher incidence of diLQTS/TdP in an active surveillance approach. Further measures are warranted to better sensitize physicians against this potentially life-threatening drug-induced adverse event.

UI  - 23832383
TI  - Long-term outcomes of adjunctive complex fractionated electrogram ablation to pulmonary vein isolation as treatment for non-paroxysmal atrial fibrillation.
AB  - PVI+CFE ablation in non-paroxysmal AF appears to provide a reasonable proportion of arrhythmia-free patients during long-term follow-up. Poorer long-term results can be expected among female patients and those with an uninterrupted AF duration of > 4 years.

UI  - 23832382
TI  - Anteroseptal basal right ventricular entrainment is simple and superior to apical entrainment in identifying mechanism of supraventricular tachycardia.
AB  - Basal RV entrainment from the anteroseptal basal RV is a simple maneuver that is superior to apical ventricular entrainment in identifying the mechanism of SVT.

UI  - 23831166
TI  - Estimates of current and future incidence and prevalence of atrial fibrillation in the U.S. adult population.
AB  - Estimates and projections of diagnosed incidence and prevalence of atrial fibrillation (AF) in the United States have been highly inconsistent across published studies. Although it is generally acknowledged that AF incidence and prevalence are increasing due to growing numbers of older people in the U.S. population, estimates of the rate of expected growth have varied widely. Reasons for these variations include differences in study design, covered time period, birth cohort, and temporal effects, as well as improvements in AF diagnosis due to increased use of diagnostic tools and health care awareness. The objective of this study was to estimate and project the incidence and prevalence of diagnosed AF in the United States out to 2030. A large health insurance claims database for the years 2001 to 2008, representing a geographically diverse 5% of the U.S. population, was used in this study. The trend and growth rate in AF incidence and prevalence was projected by a dynamic age-period cohort simulation progression model that included all diagnosed AF cases in future prevalence projections regardless of follow-up treatment, as well as those cases expected to be chronic in nature. Results from the model showed that AF incidence will double, from 1.2 million cases in 2010 to 2.6 million cases in 2030. Given this increase in incidence, AF prevalence is projected to increase from 5.2 million in 2010 to 12.1 million cases in 2030. The effect of uncertainty in model parameters was explored in deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity analyses. Variability in future trends in AF incidence and recurrence rates has the greatest impact on the projected estimates of chronic AF prevalence. It can be concluded that both incidence and prevalence of AF are likely to rise from 2010 to 2030, but there exists a wide range of uncertainty around the magnitude of future trends.

UI  - 23826621
TI  - Magnetic resonance imaging in patients with recently implanted pacemakers.
AB  - With a strong clinical indication and with careful monitoring, MRI imaging is feasible in patients with recently implanted pacemakers, although experience is limited.

UI  - 23822568
TI  - Left atrial responses to acute right ventricular apical pacing in patients with sick sinus syndrome.
AB  - Chronic right ventricular apical (RVA) pacing can lead to an increased risk of heart failure and atrial fibrillation, but the acute effects of RVA pacing on left atrial (LA) function are not well known. Twenty-four patients with sick sinus syndrome and intact intrinsic atrioventricular conduction were included. All patients received dual-chamber pacemaker implants with the atrial lead in the right atrial appendage and the ventricular lead in the right ventricular (RV) apex. Transthoracic standard and strain echocardiography (measured by tissue Doppler imaging and speckle tracking image) were performed to identify functional changes in the left ventricle (LV) and LA before and after 1hour of RVA pacing. The LA volume index did not change after pacing; however, the ratio of peak early diastolic mitral flow velocity (E) to peak early diastolic mitral annular velocity (Ea) was significantly increased and peak systolic LA strain (Sm), mean peak systolic LA strain rate (SmSR), peak early diastolic LA strain rate (EmSR), and peak late diastolic LA strain rate (AmSR) were significantly reduced after RV pacing. LV dyssynchrony, induced by RV pacing, had a significant correlation with E/Ea, Sm, and SmSR after pacing. E/Ea also had a negative correlation with Sm and SmSR after pacing. Multivariate regression analysis identified LV dyssynchrony and E/Ea as important factors that affect Sm, SmSR, EmSR, and AmSR after acute RVA pacing. Acute RVA pacing results in LA functional change and LV dyssynchrony and higher LV filling pressures reflected by E/Ea are important causes of LA dysfunction after acute RVA pacing.

UI  - 23822135
TI  - Efficacy and safety of catheter ablation for long-standing persistent atrial fibrillation in women.
AB  - Women and long AF duration were closely related to the recurrence of AF after the first ablation in patients with long-standing persistent AF. Women also had a higher risk of vascular complications.

UI  - 23818039
TI  - The effectiveness and safety of landiolol hydrochloride, an ultra-short-acting 1-blocker, in postoperative patients with supraventricular tachyarrhythmias: a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study.
AB  - Landiolol hydrochloride is effective and safe for patients with postoperative SVT.

UI  - 23815891
TI  - Improving stroke prevention in patients with atrial fibrillation.
AB  - This trial is registered with the Dutch Trial Register under registration number 3570.

UI  - 23813845
TI  - Prophylactic implantable cardioverter defibrillator treatment in patients with end-stage heart failure awaiting heart transplantation.
AB  - ICD implantation appears to be associated with an immediate and sustained survival benefit for patients awaiting heart transplantation.

UI  - 23812041
TI  - Types and outcomes of cardioversion in patients admitted to hospital for atrial fibrillation: results of the German RHYTHM-AF Study.
AB  - In large academic centres in Germany, the preferred CV method is electrical, mainly due to its easy access and to its higher success rate for the initial restoration of sinus rhythm. Considering the limitations of the open-label, non-randomised study design, overall short-term success rates appeared higher after ECV compared to PCV during hospitalisation, but not after 60 days.

UI  - 23811678
TI  - Ipsilateral circumferential radiofrequency ablation of atrial fibrillation with irrigated tip catheter: long-term outcome and pre-procedural predictors.
AB  - Single PVI results in a moderate success rate in patients with AF during 5-year FU without the use of a 3-D mapping system. Higher success was observed in patients with PAF, non-enlarged LA and good renal function.

UI  - 23810882
TI  - Survival after shock therapy in implantable cardioverter-defibrillator and cardiac resynchronization therapy-defibrillator recipients according to rhythm shocked. The ALTITUDE survival by rhythm study.
AB  - Compared with no shock, those who received their first shock for ventricular rhythms and atrial fibrillation had an increased risk of death. There was no significant difference in survival after inappropriate shocks for sinus tachycardia or noise/artifact/oversensing. In this study, the adverse prognosis after first shock appears to be more related to the underlying arrhythmia than to an adverse effect from the shock itself.

UI  - 23809915
TI  - The pattern of Tpeak-Tend and QT interval, and J wave during therapeutic hypothermia.
AB  - QTc prolongation without TpTe increase or abnormal J wave may not be arrhythmogenic during TH.

UI  - 23802288
TI  - Effects of two weeks of daily apnea training on diving response, spleen contraction, and erythropoiesis in novel subjects.
AB  - Three potentially protective responses to hypoxia have been reported to be enhanced in divers: (1) the diving response, (2) the blood-boosting spleen contraction, and (3) a long-term enhancement of hemoglobin concentration (Hb). Longitudinal studies, however, have been lacking except concerning the diving response. Ten untrained subjects followed a 2-week training program with 10 maximal effort apneas per day, with pre- and posttraining measurements during three maximal duration apneas, and an additional post-training series when the apneic duration was kept identical to that before training. Cardiorespiratory parameters and venous blood samples were collected across tests, and spleen diameters were measured via ultrasound imaging. Maximal apneic duration increased by 44 s (P < 0.05). Diving bradycardia developed 3 s earlier and was more pronounced after training (P < 0.05). Spleen contraction during apneas was similar during all tests. The arterial hemoglobin desaturation (SaO2) nadir after apnea was 84% pretraining and 89% after the duration-mimicked apneas post-training (P < 0.05), while it was 72% (P < 0.05) after maximal apneas post-training. Baseline Hb remained unchanged after training, but reticulocyte count increased by 15% (P < 0.05). We concluded that the attenuated SaO2 decrease during mimic apneas was due mainly to the earlier and more pronounced diving bradycardia, as no enhancement of spleen contraction or Hb had occurred. Increased reticulocyte count suggests augmented erythropoiesis.

UI  - 23796618
TI  - Surgical vs. transcatheter pulmonary vein isolation as first invasive treatment in patients with atrial fibrillation: a matched group comparison.
AB  - In present matched study comparing a surgical with transcatheter PVI treatment strategy in symptomatic AF patients failed on AADs, but without prior ablations, a surgical PVI strategy was more effective to prevent recurrence of atrial arrhythmias, than a transcatheter PVI treatment strategy. However, complications were more frequent with surgical PVI.

UI  - 23794519
TI  - Comparison of pharmacological and electrical cardioversion in permanent atrial fibrillation after prosthetic cardiac valve replacement: a prospective randomized trial.
AB  - Electrical cardioversion has a favourable safety profile and appears to be a more effective method than pharmacological cardioversion for the treatment of permanent AF after cardiac valve replacement, once the heart has returned close to its normal size.

UI  - 23793444
TI  - Left atrial pressure as predictor for recurrence of atrial fibrillation after pulmonary vein isolation.
AB  - LA pressure, AF type, and LA volume index are independent predictors for recurrence of AF after PVI. LA pressure may be helpful especially in patients with small atria, where AF type is not predictive.

UI  - 23787903
TI  - QT variability during initial exposure to sotalol: experience based on a large electronic medical record.
AB  - In this EMR-based cohort, the increase in QTc with sotalol initiation was highly variable, and multiple clinical factors contributed. These data represent an important step in ongoing work to identify real-world patients likely to tolerate long-term therapy and reinforces the utility of EMR-based cohorts as research tools.

UI  - 23786856
TI  - Maximum electrogram-guided ablation of cavotricuspid isthmus-dependent atrial flutter.
AB  - During ablation of AFL, directly targeting muscle bundles in the CTI as guided by the highest electrograms is more efficient than making a linear lesion across the entire CTI, since using the former approach needed less RF application, shorter fluoroscopy and procedure times than using the latter. The max electrogram-guided approach may be recommended for routine clinical use to replace the conventional linear ablation approach.

UI  - 23778903
TI  - Clinical outcomes with rivaroxaban in patients transitioned from vitamin K antagonist therapy: a subgroup analysis of a randomized trial.
AB  - Johnson & Johnson and Bayer HealthCare.

UI  - 23775057
TI  - High-dose oral ziprasidone versus conventional dosing in schizophrenia patients with residual symptoms: the ZEBRAS study.
AB  - Uncontrolled studies have suggested that increasing the dose of ziprasidone above the standard maximum daily dose of 160 mg may be more effective for some patients with schizophrenia. To test this hypothesis, we conducted an 8-week, placebo-controlled, fixed-dose escalation trial comparing ziprasidone 160 versus 320 mg/d in individuals with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder who remained symptomatic despite treatment with ziprasidone 160 mg/d for at least 3 weeks. Of 75 randomized patients, 42 completed the study. Serum ziprasidone concentrations increased significantly in the high-dose group compared with the standard-dose group at week 4 but did not differ between groups at week 8. Both treatment groups exhibited significant symptomatic improvement. Response did not differ between treatment groups; however, in the high-dose group, higher ziprasidone serum concentrations were associated with better response at a trend level. Higher ziprasidone concentrations were also associated with reductions in diastolic blood pressure and, at a trend level, with more prominent negative symptoms and greater QTc prolongation. In summary, increasing the ziprasidone dose to 320 mg/d did not produce a sustained elevation in serum concentrations or symptomatic improvement compared with a standard ziprasidone dose of 160 mg/d.

UI  - 23774941
TI  - An acenocoumarol dose algorithm based on a South-Eastern European population.
AB  - We have developed and validated an accurate algorithm for prediction of the stable therapeutic dose of acenocoumarol in a Romania population.

UI  - 23773656
TI  - Noninvasive mapping of ventricular activation in patients with transplanted hearts.
AB  - This is the first reported study of ventricular activation patterns after cardiac transplantation, using electrocardiographic imaging (ECGI), a noninvasive method for electrophysiologic mapping. This study of ten patients reveals that transplanted hearts have unique ventricular activation patterns in sinus rhythm, activating early in the epicardial aspect of the anterior or inferior septum, with intact right and left bundle branch conduction. They have late activation with slowing of conduction near the right ventricular (RV) basal free wall, causing a mild QRS prolongation and an rSr' pattern in lead V1 of the ECG. PVCs arise from both endocardial and epicardial locations in both ventricles.

UI  - 23770747
TI  - The Long-Term Multicenter Observational Study of Dabigatran Treatment in Patients With Atrial Fibrillation (RELY-ABLE) Study.
AB  - During 2.3 years of continued treatment with dabigatran after RE-LY, there was a higher rate of major bleeding with dabigatran 150 mg twice daily in comparison with 110 mg, and similar rates of stroke and death.

UI  - 23770182
TI  - Balancing the benefits and risks of 2 doses of dabigatran compared with warfarin in atrial fibrillation.
AB  - On a group level both doses of dabigatran as compared with warfarin have similar benefits when considering a weighted estimate including both efficacy and safety. The similar overall benefits of the 2 doses of dabigatran versus warfarin support individualizing the dose based on patient characteristics and physician and patient preferences. (Randomized Evaluation of Long Term Anticoagulant Therapy [RE-LY] With Dabigatran Etexilate; NCT00262600).

UI  - 23770172
TI  - Impact of carvedilol and metoprolol on inappropriate implantable cardioverter-defibrillator therapy: the MADIT-CRT trial (Multicenter Automatic Defibrillator Implantation With Cardiac Resynchronization Therapy).
AB  - In heart failure patients undergoing either cardiac resynchronization therapy with a defibrillator or with an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator device, carvedilol was associated with a 36% lower rate of inappropriate ATP and shock therapy compared with metoprolol. Inappropriate therapy due to atrial fibrillation was associated with a 50% lower rate in patients receiving carvedilol compared with those receiving metoprolol. (MADIT-CRT: Multicenter Automatic Defibrillator Implantation With Cardiac Resynchronization Therapy; NCT00180271).

UI  - 23770107
TI  - Plasma level of N-terminal pro brain natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) in elderly population in Poland--the PolSenior Study.
AB  - We conclude that CKD and atrial fibrillation are associated with the occurrence of increased NT-pro-BNP, the surrogate for HF in elderly population. On the contrary, overweight or obesity is associated with lower prevalence of HF in elderly.

UI  - 23769122
TI  - A phase III, randomized, double-blind, parallel-group, placebo-controlled, multicentre study to assess the efficacy and safety of the  adrenoceptor agonist, mirabegron, in patients with symptoms of overactive bladder.
AB  - Mirabegron 25 mg and 50 mg were associated with significant improvements in efficacy measures of incontinence episodes and micturition frequency. Mirabegron was well tolerated vs placebo.

UI  - 23768003
TI  - Minimizing ventricular pacing by a novel atrioventricular (AV) delay hysteresis algorithm in patients with intact or compromised intrinsic AV conduction and different atrial and ventricular lead locations.
AB  - VIP feature reduces VP both in patients with SND and with intermittent heart block regardless of the lead positions in the right atria and the ventricle.

UI  - 23765437
TI  - The management of patients with atrial fibrillation undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention with stent implantation: in-hospital-data from the Atrial Fibrillation undergoing Coronary Artery Stenting study.
AB  - Current recommendations on the management of patients with atrial fibrillation (AF) undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention with stent (PCI-S) essentially derive from small, single-center, retrospective datasets. To obtain larger and better quality data, we carried out the prospective, multicenter Atrial Fibrillation undergoing Coronary Artery Stenting (AFCAS) study. Therefore, consecutive patients with history of or ongoing AF undergoing PCI-S were enrolled, and occurrence of adverse ischemic and bleeding events recorded during 12 months follow-up. In this article, we report the in-hospital observations. Out of the 963 patients, in the majority of cases (49.1%) AF was permanent. The associated risk of stroke, as defined by a CHADS2 -score 2, was in 70% of patients moderate to high. Upon enrollment in the registry, 69.3% of patients were on VKA therapy. Overall occurrence of in-hospital major adverse cardiac events was 4.5% (cardiovascular death 1.9%, urgent revascularization in 1.5%, and stroke/arterial thromboembolism in 0.6%). Bleeding complications occurred in 7.1% of patients, being severe in 2.5%. In a logistic regression analysis, no risk factor was independently associated with bleeding events, whereas Clopidogrel treatment decreased and female gender/treatment with gpIIb/IIIa-antagonists, respectively increased the risk for the combined ischemic endpoint. The majority of AF patients undergoing PCI-S are at high stroke risk, and therefore VKA treatment should not be withdrawn and combined anticoagulant and antiplatelet treatment is warranted. Current management appears largely in accordance with current recommendations, whereby accounting for the limited occurrence of in-hospital adverse ischemic and bleeding events.

UI  - 23764484
TI  - Myocardial infarct heterogeneity assessment by late gadolinium enhancement cardiovascular magnetic resonance imaging shows predictive value for ventricular arrhythmia development after acute myocardial infarction.
AB  - Larger proportions of penumbra in the subacute phase after AMI are associated with increased risk of developing VTs. Quantification of penumbra size may become a useful future tool for risk stratification and ultimately for the prevention of ventricular arrhythmias.

UI  - 23759661
TI  - Repeated catheter ablation of atrial fibrillation: how to predict outcome?
AB  - RCAF results in a moderate success rate on very long-term FU. Lower success was observed in patients with non-PAF and enlarged LA. ALARMEc score allows for clear description of expected outcome after RCAF.

UI  - 23759473
TI  - Risks and benefits of anticoagulation in atrial fibrillation: insights from the Outcomes Registry for Better Informed Treatment of Atrial Fibrillation (ORBIT-AF) registry.
AB  - In community-based outpatients with AF, use of OAC was high and driven by not only predominantly stroke but also bleeding risk. Stroke risk significantly affects OAC use among those with low bleeding risk, whereas those with high bleeding risk demonstrate consistently lower use of OAC regardless of stroke risk.

UI  - 23759472
TI  - End of study transition from study drug to open-label vitamin K antagonist therapy: the ROCKET AF experience.
AB  - The excess of events at EOS was likely because of a period of inadequate anticoagulation in rivaroxaban participants switched to vitamin K antagonist therapy. If transition from rivaroxaban to vitamin K antagonist is needed, timely monitoring and careful dosing should be used to ensure consistent and adequate anticoagulation.

UI  - 23759284
TI  - Lenient vs. strict rate control in patients with atrial fibrillation and heart failure: a post-hoc analysis of the RACE II study.
AB  - In patients with AF and heart failure with a predominantly preserved EF, the stringency of rate control seems to have no effect on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, symptoms, and quality of life.

UI  - 23737224
TI  - Role of home monitoring in children with implantable cardioverter defibrillators for Brugada syndrome.
AB  - Remote monitoring systems substantially improve the proper management of children with BS.

UI  - 23756655
TI  - Risk factors for atrial fibrillation and their population burden in postmenopausal women: the Women's Health Initiative Observational Study.
AB  - Caucasian ethnicity, traditional cardiovascular risk factors and peripheral arterial disease were independently associated with higher rates of incident AF in postmenopausal women. Hypertension and overweight status accounted for a large proportion of population attributable risk. Measuring burden of modifiable AF risk factors in older women may help target interventions.

UI  - 23751735
TI  - Medium-term neurological complications after off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting with and without aortic manipulation.
AB  - Although there was no difference in the incidence of immediate postoperative neurological complications, there were fewer medium-term neurological complications in OPCAB cases without aortic manipulation.

UI  - 23751149
TI  - Atrial fibrillation and congestive heart failure: a cost analysis of rhythm-control vs. rate-control strategies.
AB  - In the study population, the therapeutic strategy used to manage AF in patients with severe heart failure appears to have little influence on the overall financial burden, which remains substantial.

UI  - 23750778
TI  - Mitral isthmus ablation is feasible, efficacious, and safe using a remote robotic catheter system.
AB  - It is feasible and safe to use a remote RCS for MI ablation, including "driving into the CS." MI block was achieved in 98% with a significant reduction in the need for CS ablation (48%). There is a short learning curve.

UI  - 23748210
TI  - Progression of atrial fibrillation after a failed initial ablation procedure in patients with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation: a randomized comparison of drug therapy versus reablation.
AB  - URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT01709682.

UI  - 23748209
TI  - Infant ventricular fibrillation after ST-segment changes and QRS widening: a new cause of sudden infant death?
AB  - This is the first report of idiopathic ventricular fibrillation in young infants preceded by stereotypical transient ECG changes. These findings may represent a new, potentially treatable cause of sudden infant death. Recognition of these prodromal changes may be important in future management and survival of these infants.

UI  - 23744849
TI  - Lone atrial fibrillation as a positive predictor of left atrial volume reduction following ablation of atrial fibrillation.
AB  - Based on the subgroup of patients with lone AF, PVI leads to a significant LAVR 4 months after the procedure, especially in patients with clinical success in terms of AF freedom. Comorbidities such as arterial hypertension may prevent this reverse atrial remodelling, despite AF freedom. Clinical implications need to be further elucidated.

UI  - 23744591
TI  - Parathyroidectomy eliminates arrhythmic risk in primary hyperparathyroidism, as evaluated by exercise test.
AB  - PTx reduces the occurrence of VPBs and restored the QTc adaptation during ET.

UI  - 23743976
TI  - Dabigatran versus warfarin: effects on ischemic and hemorrhagic strokes and bleeding in Asians and non-Asians with atrial fibrillation.
AB  - http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00262600.

UI  - 23742676
TI  - Evaluation of atrial electromechanical delay and diastolic functions in patients with hyperthyroidism.
AB  - This study showed that intra- and inter-atrial electromechanical intervals were prolonged and diastolic function was impaired in both overt and subclinical hyperthyroidism. TSH level and mitral Em /Am ratio were found as independent predictors of atrial EMD.

UI  - 23742214
TI  - Identification of left atrial ganglionated plexi by dense epicardial mapping as ablation targets for the treatment of concomitant atrial fibrillation.
AB  - Dense epicardial mapping in the potential GP areas identified active GP locations in a high percentage of patients. GPs between the PVs and interatrial groove have a high potential as ablation targets for treatment of concomitant AF.

UI  - 23742192
TI  - Long-term outcome following ablation of atrial tachycardias occurring after mitral valve replacement in patients with rheumatic heart disease.
AB  - Right but not left macroreentry is the most common AT postmitral valve replacement in patients with RHD. The incidence of AF is very high after AT ablation in such patients during the long-term follow-up.

UI  - 23740224
TI  - Dabigatran versus warfarin anticoagulation before and after catheter ablation for the treatment of atrial fibrillation.
AB  - In a retrospective pilot trial comparing the risks of systemic thromboembolism or bleeding complications in patients treated with warfarin or dabigatran anticoagulation, the outcomes were similar. A prospective trial is warranted.

UI  - 23739532
TI  - Chronic amiodarone therapy impairs the function of the superior sinoatrial node in patients with atrial fibrillation.
AB  - In a quarter of the AF patients, amiodarone causes superior SAN dysfunction, which results in a downward shift of the EAS and reduced P-wave amplitude in leads II, III and aVF at baseline and during isoproterenol infusion.

UI  - 23736874
TI  - Atrial fibrillation ablation in patients with gastroesophageal reflux disease or irritable bowel syndrome-the heart to gut connection!
AB  - Majority of AF patients with GERD and/or IBS have triggered AF and a positive vagal response during RFA. RFA is equally effective in this patient population when compared to those without GERD or IBS.

UI  - 23736042
TI  - Surgical RF ablation of atrial fibrillation in patients undergoing mitral valve repair for Barlow disease.
AB  - Results from our investigation suggest that radiofrequency ablation of AF in patients with Barlow disease undergoing MVR for severe regurgitation is effective and should be considered in every patient with Barlow disease and AF undergoing valve surgical repair.

UI  - 23734916
TI  - Trends in the use of implantable cardioverter defibrillators in Australia: a 10-year nationwide study from 2000-2009.
AB  - ICD procedures increased significantly in Australia between 2000-2009. Despite these increases, other studies have suggested ICD devices are currently under-utilised. During the study period, males accounted for the majority of ICD procedures. While there are numerous reasons for this, it is not known if device under-use is more common in females.

UI  - 23734260
TI  - Women versus men with chronic atrial fibrillation: insights from the Standard versus Atrial Fibrillation spEcific managemenT studY (SAFETY).
AB  - Health care providers should be cognisant of gender-specific differences in an attempt to individualise and, hence, optimise the management of patients with chronic AF and reduce potential morbidity and mortality.

UI  - 23731775
TI  - Angiotensin II blockade, YKL-40 and maintenance of sinus rhythm after electrical cardioversion for atrial fibrillation.
AB  - High levels of the novel inflammatory marker YKL-40 have been demonstrated in inflammatory environments and in remodeling of the extracellular matrix. Both are key components in atrial wall remodeling in atrial fibrillation (AF). We studied the relation between rhythm outcome after electrical cardioversion (ECV) for persistent AF and serum levels of YKL-40. A secondary point of interest was a potential effect of the angiotensin receptor blocker candesartan on YKL-40 levels. In the Candesartan in the Prevention of Relapsing Atrial Fibrillation (CAPRAF) study, 171 patients with persistent AF were randomized to receive candesartan 8mg once daily or placebo for 3-6 weeks before ECV and candesartan 16mg once daily or placebo for 6 months after ECV. Serum levels of YKL-40 were measured in fasting blood samples collected at baseline and at end of the study. Mean age was 6411 years, and 39 (22.8%) were women. Sinus rhythm was maintained for 6 months after ECV in 41 (23.9%). Baseline levels of YKL-40 were significantly correlated to age (Spearmans rho; rs=0.442; p<0.001), CHA2DS2-VASc(1) score (rs=0.256; p<0.001) and left atrial diameter (rs=0.185; p=0.017). By use of Kaplan-Meier quartile analysis of baseline YKL-40 levels, no relation between YKL-40 levels and risk of AF recurrence was found. End of study YKL-40 levels were unchanged from baseline, both in patients with AF recurrence and those maintaining sinus rhythm for 6 months. Treatment with candesartan had no influence on serum YKL-40 levels.

UI  - 23731362
TI  - Prophylactic high-dose oral-N-acetylcysteine does not prevent atrial fibrillation after heart surgery: a prospective double blind placebo-controlled randomized clinical trial.
AB  - Prophylactic high-dose oral-NAC begun 2 days before open heart surgery and continued for 5 days, and had no significant effect on the incidence of POAF, in-hospital stay, and postoperative morbidity or mortality.

UI  - 23731043
TI  - TUGENDHAT: a pilot randomized study on effects of biventricular pacing in patients with bradycardia pacing indication and normal systolic function on heart failure, atrial fibrillation and quality of life (results of 12 month follow-up).
AB  - BiV pacing, compared to RV pacing, did not change LV function and quality of life in patients with the absence of LV dysfunction or remodelling, standard bradycardia pacing indications in a pilot phase (12- month follow-up) of the TUGENDHAT trial. The final report will be published after 60-month follow-up termination (Tab. 5, Fig. 3, Ref. 30).

UI  - 23728066
TI  - Clinical characteristics and natural history of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy with midventricular obstruction.
AB  - MVO is a distinct phenotype of HCM associated with unfavorable prognosis in terms of end-stage HCM, sudden death and lethal arrhythmic events. The high adverse outcome rate necessitates early recognition of MVO and appropriate therapeutic interventions.

UI  - 23727090
TI  - Validation of novel 3-dimensional electrocardiographic mapping of atrial tachycardias by invasive mapping and ablation: a multicenter study.
AB  - This prospective multicenter series shows a high success rate of ECM in accurately diagnosing the mechanism of AT and the location of focal arrhythmia. Intraprocedural use of the system and its application to atrial fibrillation mapping is under way.

UI  - 23726175
TI  - Effectiveness of moxonidine to reduce atrial fibrillation burden in hypertensive patients.
AB  - There is substantial evidence that the autonomic system plays an important part in the pathogenesis of atrial fibrillation (AF). It appears that, although some patients have a preponderantly sympathetic or vagal overactivation leading to AF, a combined sympathovagal drive is most commonly responsible for AF triggering. The purpose of this hypothesis-generating study was to test whether moxonidine, a centrally acting sympathoinhibitory agent, on top of optimal antihypertensive treatment, can lead to a decrease in AF burden in hypertensive patients with paroxysmal AF. This was a prospective, double-blind, 1-group, crossover study. Hypertensive patients with paroxysmal AF sequentially received treatment with placebo and moxonidine for two 6-week periods, respectively. The change in AF burden (measured as minutes of AF per day in three 48-hour Holter recordings) between the 2 treatment periods was the primary outcome measure. Fifty-six patients (median age 63.5 years, 35 men) were included. During moxonidine treatment, AF burden was reduced from 28.0 min/day (interquartile range [IQR] 15.0 to 57.8) to 16.5 min/day (IQR 4.0 to 36.3; p <0.01). European Heart Rhythm Association symptom severity class decreased from a median of 2.0 (IQR 1.0 to 2.0) to 1.0 (IQR 1.0 to 2.0; p = 0.01). Systolic blood pressure levels were similar in the 2 treatment periods, whereas diastolic blood pressure was lower (p <0.01) during moxonidine treatment. The most frequent complaint was dry mouth (28.6%). No serious adverse events were recorded. In conclusion, treatment with moxonidine, a centrally acting sympathoinhibitory agent, results in reduction of AF burden and alleviation of AF-related symptoms in hypertensive patients with paroxysmal AF.

UI  - 23725995
TI  - Effect on cardiac function of cardiac resynchronization therapy in patients with right bundle branch block (from the Multicenter Automatic Defibrillator Implantation Trial With Cardiac Resynchronization Therapy [MADIT-CRT] trial).
AB  - Cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) is effective for the treatment of patients with heart failure and a wide QRS duration, particularly left bundle branch block. However, subjects with right bundle branch block (RBBB) do not appear to benefit from CRT. The aim of this study was to determine whether patients with specific RBBB conduction patterns responded to CRT in the Multicenter Automatic Defibrillator Implantation Trial with Cardiac Resynchronization Therapy (MADIT-CRT) trial. In the present post hoc analysis, patients with RBBB who received CRT with an implantable cardioverter defibrillator (n = 132) were divided into 2 groups according to the baseline QRS morphology in the inferior and high lateral leads: group 1: left anterior fascicular block (LAFB) pattern (n = 80; 60.6%); and group 2: non-LAFB pattern (n = 52; 39.4%). Subjects with RBBB who received an implantable cardioverter defibrillator served as the control group (n = 87). The primary end point was echocardiographic response to CRT, defined as percent change in left ventricular (LV) and left atrial volumes from baseline to 1 year. The secondary end point was heart failure or death. The non-LAFB group demonstrated a significantly larger percent reduction in LV end-diastolic volume, LV end-systolic volume, and left atrial volume compared to controls (-11%, p <0.0001; -17%, p <0.0001; -15%, p <0.0001, respectively) and LAFB (-5%, p = 0.028; -7%, p = 0.019; -6%; p = 0.022; respectively) by multivariate analysis. No difference was found in the 3-year crude event rates for death or heart failure among the LAFB (22%), non-LAFB (21%), or ICD-only (20%) groups (p = NS). In conclusion, conduction patterns influence echocardiographic response to CRT in patients with RBBB, with favorable reductions in the LV and left atrial volumes in those without an LAFB conduction pattern. This echocardiographic benefit did not translate into a reduction in heart failure or death during a 3-year follow-up period.

UI  - 23723250
TI  - Efficacy and safety of rivaroxaban in patients with heart failure and nonvalvular atrial fibrillation: insights from ROCKET AF.
AB  - Treatment-related outcomes were similar in patients with and without HF and across HF subgroups. These findings support the use of rivaroxaban as an alternative to warfarin in patients with atrial fibrillation and HF. Clinical Trial Registration- URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00403767.

UI  - 23719719
TI  - Brentuximab vedotin does not cause clinically relevant QTc interval prolongation in patients with CD30-positive hematologic malignancies.
AB  - There is no significant prolongation of the QT/QTc interval with brentuximab vedotin in patients with CD30-positive hematologic malignancies.

UI  - 23719478
TI  - Clinical significance of sleep-disordered breathing induced by sedatives during ablation of atrial fibrillation.
AB  - Frequent episodes of sedative-induced SDB may have a diagnostic value for SAS in patients with AF.

UI  - 23716498
TI  - Under-recognition of alarms in a neonatal intensive care unit.
AB  - The alarm documentation by neonatal intensive care unit staff does not appear to be sufficiently accurate to permit further understanding and treatment of AOP. It is unclear if the alarms missed here would have led to clinical consequences had they been documented.

UI  - 23716032
TI  - Development and validation of a risk score to predict QT interval prolongation in hospitalized patients.
AB  - A risk score using easily obtainable clinical variables predicts patients at highest risk for QTc interval prolongation and may be useful in guiding monitoring and treatment decisions.

UI  - 23713835
TI  - Single center experience of fluoroless AVNRT ablation guided by electroanatomic reconstruction in children and adolescents.
AB  - Combination of EA mapping systems and cryoablation may allow to perform fluoroless slow-pathway ablation for AVNRT in children and adolescents in the majority of patients. Fluoroless slow-pathway cryoablation showed a high efficacy and safety comparable to conventional fluoroscopy guided procedures.

UI  - 23713815
TI  - Stroke prevention in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation: new insight in selection of rhythm or rate control therapy and impact of mean platelet volume.
AB  - The aim of this study was to determine the impact of mean platelet volume (MPV) on the strategy for treatment of atrial fibrillation (AF) with respect to stroke prevention. MPV was analyzed in 265 patients with AF who were undergoing treatment using rhythm or rate control. The primary endpoint was ischemic stroke or a transient ischemic attack (TIA) event. Kaplan-Meier analysis revealed a significantly higher stroke rate in the rate control group compared to the rhythm control group. A significantly higher stroke rate was observed in the higher tertile MPV group (7.9 fL) compared to the lower tertile MPV group (<7.3 fL). When the MPV cut-off level was set to 7.85 fL using the receiver operating characteristic curve, the sensitivity was 80.0% and the specificity was 70.4% for differentiating between the group with stroke and the group without stroke. In the Cox proportional hazard analysis, after adjusting for sex, treatment strategy for AF, high MPV level, antithrombotic treatment, and high CHADS2 score, higher MPV, rate control strategy for treatment of AF, and high CHADS2 score were found to be independent predictors of stroke risk. In addition, patients with AF who were treated using rate control had high stroke risk with an MPV over 7.85 fL and high CHADS2 score. The results of this study demonstrate that the MPV and the rate control strategy for treatment of AF were predictive markers for stroke; its predictive power for stroke was independent of female sex and high CHADS2 score in patients with AF.

UI  - 23713812
TI  - Assessment of interleukin-1 gene cluster polymorphisms in lone atrial fibrillation: new insight into the role of inflammation in atrial fibrillation.
AB  - Presence of allele 2 of VNTR polymorphism of IL-1RN gene may cause increased risk for lone AF probably due to the inadequate limitation of inflammatory reactions.

UI  - 23713754
TI  - Multipole analysis of heart rate variability as a predictor of imminent ventricular arrhythmias in ICD patients.
AB  - The multipole method of HRV analysis emerges as a highly specific, possible predictor of imminent VTA, providing an early warning allowing to prepare for an arrhythmic episode.

UI  - 23713720
TI  - Interaction between cardioverter defibrillator and enhanced external counterpulsation device.
AB  - EECP seems to be a safe treatment modality in patients with implanted ICD and CRT-D devices. It should be kept in mind that in those patients with CRT-D, rate responsive mode is on; inappropriate sinus tachycardia can be seen during EECP therapy. Also in patients with CRT-D using a unipolar sensing mode, problems of QRS complex sensing by the EECP may occur and, therefore, this effects synchronization and success of EECP therapy.

UI  - 23712031
TI  - Atrioventricular delay programming and the benefit of cardiac resynchronization therapy in MADIT-CRT.
AB  - Our findings indicate that in MADIT-CRT programming, the CRT AVD <120 ms was associated with a greater clinical and echocardiographic response to CRT.

UI  - 23709669
TI  - Good prognosis for pericarditis with and without myocardial involvement: results from a multicenter, prospective cohort study.
AB  - The outcome of myopericardial inflammatory syndromes is good. Unlike acute coronary syndromes, troponin elevation is not a negative prognostic marker in this setting.

UI  - 23709570
TI  - Cardioversion for atrial fibrillation in current European practice: results of the European Heart Rhythm Association survey.
AB  - This survey was conducted to provide an insight into the current clinical practice regarding the use of cardioversion for atrial fibrillation (AF) in Europe. Responses were received from 57 centres across Europe, 71.9% of which were university hospitals. For electrical cardioversion, general anaesthesia was managed by an anaesthesiologist in 73.9% of centres and by a cardiologist in 37%. In the majority of centres, electrical cardioversion was performed using a biphasic defibrillator (85.1%). Antiarrhythmic drugs were routinely prescribed prior to electrical cardioversion by 54.3% of hospitals. For pharmacological cardioversion in patients with no or minimal heart disease, the majority of centres (63.1%) chose intravenous flecainide or propafenone, whereas vernakalant was used by 35% of centres in patients with no or minimal-to-moderate structural heart disease. Most centres (71.7%) used a mandatory strategy of 3 weeks of oral anticoagulation prior to elective cardioversion in patients AF > 48 h, but 28.3% performed immediate cardioversion after a transoesophageal echocardiogram. Many centres are now performing electrical cardioversion on treatment with novel oral anticoagulants (up to 23.6% of cardioversions).

UI  - 23708863
TI  - Target international normalized ratio values for preventing thromboembolic and hemorrhagic events in Japanese patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation: results of the J-RHYTHM Registry.
AB  - An INR of 1.6-2.6 is safe and effective at preventing thromboembolic events in patients with NVAF, particularly patients aged 70 years. An INR of 2.6-2.99 is also effective, but associated with a slightly increased risk in major hemorrhage. (UMIN Clinical Trials Registry UMIN000001569)

UI  - 23708166
TI  - Atrial fibrillation among Medicare beneficiaries hospitalized with sepsis: incidence and risk factors.
AB  - Atrial fibrillation is common among critically ill patients with sepsis. Acute factors, rather than preexisting cardiovascular comorbid conditions, are associated with increased risk for newly diagnosed AF during sepsis, suggesting that mechanisms of newly diagnosed AF during sepsis may differ from the general population of patients with AF.

UI  - 23704912
TI  - Risk profiles and antithrombotic treatment of patients newly diagnosed with atrial fibrillation at risk of stroke: perspectives from the international, observational, prospective GARFIELD registry.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov TRI08888.

UI  - 23702601
TI  - Cardiopulmonary resuscitation guidance improves medical students' adherence to guidelines in simulated cardiac arrest: a randomised cross-over study.
AB  - Real-time cardiopulmonary resuscitation guidance significantly increased adherence to the guidelines by medical students treating simulated out-of-hospital cardiac arrest. Using a simple tool such as a countdown timer makes it possible to reduce the number of inappropriate shock intervals and time without chest compression.

UI  - 23702238
TI  - Increasing time between first diagnosis of atrial fibrillation and catheter ablation adversely affects long-term outcomes.
AB  - Delays in treatment with catheter ablation impact procedural success rates independent of temporal changes to the AF subtype at ablation.

UI  - 23701932
TI  - Predictive factors for pacemaker implantation in patients receiving an implantable loop recorder for syncope remained unexplained after an extensive cardiac and neurological workup.
AB  - An advanced age, a history of trauma secondary to syncope, and the detection of periods of asymptomatic bradycardia during conventional ECG monitoring were independent predictive factors for bradyarrhythmias requiring pacemaker implantation in patients receiving an ILR for US.

UI  - 23699725
TI  - Perioperative use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and risks for adverse outcomes of surgery.
AB  - Receiving SSRIs in the perioperative period is associated with a higher risk for adverse events. Determining whether patient factors or SSRIs themselves are responsible for elevated risks requires prospective study.

UI  - 23698026
TI  - A novel finding- impairment of gastric myoelectricity after catheter ablation of atrial fibrillation.
AB  - Transient gastric dysrhythmias with bradygastria does occur in AF patients after ablation, which may indicate periesophageal vagal plexus damage after ablation. Careful application of radiofrequency energy to prevent esophageal injury is important.

UI  - 23696612
TI  - Impact of left bundle branch block on heart rate and its relationship to treatment with ivabradine in chronic heart failure.
AB  - LBBB increases risk in HF patients with heart rates 70 b.p.m. in sinus rhythm, unmodulated by heart rate. Ivabradine was safe in LBBB. Its effect was directionally similar to that in patients without LBBB, but did not reach statistical significance, possibly due to lack of power to test this effect because of the small number of LBBB patients.

UI  - 23692891
TI  - Magnetic versus manual catheter navigation for mapping and ablation of right ventricular outflow tract ventricular arrhythmias: a randomized controlled study.
AB  - RMC navigation significantly reduces patients' and physicians' fluoroscopic times by 50.5% and 68.6%, respectively, when used in conjunction with a noncontact mapping system to guide ablation of RVOT VPC/VT.

UI  - 23692262
TI  - Clinical efficacy and safety of an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator lead with a floating atrial sensing dipole.
AB  - The studied ICD lead with a floating atrial sensing dipole met the predefined safety expectation and demonstrated appropriate atrial sensing performance.

UI  - 23691991
TI  - Mutation location effect on severity of phenotype during exercise testing in type 1 long-QT syndrome: impact of transmembrane and C-loop location.
AB  - Genetically confirmed LQT1 patients in this study cohort with C-loop mutations did not demonstrate the expected increase in QTc in response to exercise, or resultant response to beta-blocker. The apparent increased risk of cardiac events associated with C-loop mutation sites and the marked benefit received from beta-blocker therapy are not reflected by exercise-mediated effects on QTc in this study population.

UI  - 23689705
TI  - The effect of atropine on rhythm and conduction disturbances during 322 critical care intubations.
AB  - Atropine significantly reduced the prevalence of new arrhythmias during intubation particularly for children over 1 month of age, did not convert sinus tachycardia to ventricular tachycardia or fibrillation, and may contribute to the safety of intubation.

UI  - 23687124
TI  - Arrhythmic complications after electrical cardioversion of acute atrial fibrillation: the FinCV study.
AB  - Bradycardic complications are rare and usually benign after cardioversion of acute AF. They seem to reflect sinus node dysfunction and often result in later implantation of a permanent pacemaker.

UI  - 23685539
TI  - Dynamic analysis of cardiac rhythms for discriminating atrial fibrillation from lethal ventricular arrhythmias.
AB  - This new strategy for AF discrimination based on entropy estimation expands on simpler concepts of variability, performs well at fast heart rates, and has potential for broad clinical application.

UI  - 23685170
TI  - Automated analysis of atrial late gadolinium enhancement imaging that correlates with endocardial voltage and clinical outcomes: a 2-center study.
AB  - LA scar quantified automatically by a simple objective method correlates with colocated endocardial voltage. Greater preablation scar is associated with LA dilatation and AF recurrence.

UI  - 23684591
TI  - Decision making for oral anticoagulants in atrial fibrillation: the ATA-AF study.
AB  - Oral anticoagulants are more frequently used in CARD than in MED, plausibly due to greater complexity of MED patients. Stratification of thrombotic and hemorrhagic risk significantly drives the choice for VKA. However the fraction of patients in whom prescription or non-prescription is based on other individual characteristics is not negligible.

UI  - 23683967
TI  - [Patients' characteristics and clinical management of atrial fibrillation in primary healthcare in Spain: FIATE Study].
AB  - A high rate of patients with anticoagulant therapy in primary healthcare has been found in this research. INR control, however, remains suboptimal. Heart rate control is the most commonly used strategy. The decision about the anticoagulation should be based on the thromboembolic risk rather than in the arrhytmia type.

UI  - 23681861
TI  - Are patients admitted to emergency departments with regular supraventricular tachycardia (SVT) treated appropriately?
AB  - Regular supraventricular tachycardia (SVT) is frequently encountered in clinical practice. Guidelines are available from the National Service Framework (NSF) for the treatment of patients attending emergency departments (ED) with SVT. These recommend a thyroid-function test (TFT) and arrhythmia electrocardiography (ECG), and referral to a heart-rhythm specialist on discharge. Hospital admission is rarely required. In our multicentre study, we examined the implementation of these guidelines among patients attending the ED with SVT. Only 34% of patients had specialist referrals, with an average wait of 50.3 days (the majority of delays resulted from referral requests from general practitioners). A history of previous SVT, the mode of tachycardia termination, patient age and/or comorbidities were similar for the 27 (23.5%) patients who were admitted overnight. Of these, 15 (13%) of the total 115 patients who attended ED with regular SVT were referred for Holter monitoring despite having ECGs demonstrating arrhythmia. Low referral rates, unnecessary investigations and admissions indicate a need for improvement for better patient care and to minimise healthcare costs. We have formulated a standard operating procedure, which will be available via the College of Emergency Medicine website.

UI  - 23679889
TI  - Impact of cardiac computed tomography of the interatrial septum before pulmonary vein isolation.
AB  - MDCT may detect a PFO before pulmonary isolation. However, presence of AF may lead to artifacts on MDCT impeding a meaningful analysis. Furthermore, in this study sensitivity and positive predictive value of MDCT were low and therefore MDCT was not a reliable screening tool for detection of PFO.

UI  - 23679347
TI  - One-year extension study of ACCORD COPD I: safety and efficacy of two doses of twice-daily aclidinium bromide in patients with COPD.
AB  - This was a 52-week, double-blind, extension study in which COPD patients previously treated with twice-daily (BID) aclidinium bromide 200 g or 400 g during a 12-week lead-in study (ACCORD COPD I) continued the same treatment, while patients previously receiving placebo were rerandomized (1:1) to aclidinium 200 g or 400 g BID. The primary objective of this study was to evaluate the long-term safety and tolerability of aclidinium treatment. Efficacy outcomes included bronchodilation, health status, and rescue medication use. A total of 467 patients completed the lead-in study and 291 patients consented to participate in the extension. At study end, the percentages of patients who reported a treatment-emergent adverse event (TEAE) were similar for both treatments (200 g, 77.4%; 400 g, 73.7%). Incidence of anticholinergic TEAEs was low and similar for both treatments, with dry mouth reported in only 1 patient (400 g). Cardiac TEAEs were reported by a similarly low percentage of patients (<5% for any event in any group) with no apparent dose dependence. Improvements from baseline in lung function were greatest for patients who received continuous aclidinium treatment and those who were rerandomized from placebo to aclidinium 400 g; these improvements were generally sustained throughout the study. Health status and overall rescue medication use was improved from baseline for both treatments. The safety profile of twice-daily aclidinium and sustained improvements in lung function and health status throughout the 52-week extension study support its use as a long-term maintenance treatment for patients with COPD. (Clinical trial registration number NCT00970268).

UI  - 23678962
TI  - Atrial fibrillation in young stroke patients: do we underestimate its prevalence?
AB  - AF may be more common than expected in young patients with IS and is associated with increased NIHSS scores.

UI  - 23678857
TI  - Evaluation of linear lesions in the left and right atrium in ablation of long-standing atrial fibrillation.
AB  - In LPeAF, linear lesions in the LA help improve outcome of ablation, additional CTI ablation does not.

UI  - 23677730
TI  - The atrial fibrillation in Turkey: Epidemiologic Registry (AFTER).
AB  - These results suggest that stroke risk scores should be thoroughly heeded based on guidelines, and that anticoagulation must be applied according to their guidance.

UI  - 23672992
TI  - Application of the Multicenter Automatic Defibrillator Implantation Trial II risk score in a nontrial setting.
AB  - A post hoc analysis of the Multicenter Automatic Defibrillator Implantation Trial (MADIT) II showed that patients with high mortality risk score did not benefit from implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) therapy. We sought to determine whether MADIT II risk score can identify patients with greater mortality in a nontrial "real-world" setting. We included 382 consecutive patients who received ICD for primary prevention of sudden cardiac death at the Minneapolis Veterans Affairs Medical Center from 2006 to 2010. MADIT II score was calculated by assigning 1 point each for age >70 years, New York Heart Association class >II, atrial fibrillation, QRS >0.12 seconds, and blood urea nitrogen level >26 mg/dl. Scores 0, 1 to 2, and 3 were classified as low, intermediate, and high risk, respectively. Of the 382 patients, 14% were low risk, 54% intermediate risk, and 32% high risk. After 3.0  1.6 years of follow-up, incidence of appropriate ICD shocks was similar (p = 0.21) across MADIT II risk score categories. However, mortality rate was 21, 54, and 134 per 1,000 patient-year follow-up in low, intermediate, and high-risk patients, respectively, p <0.0001. Compared with low-risk patients, mortality was 6.4 greater in high-risk patients (hazard ratio 6.36, 95% confidence interval 1.9 to 20.5; p = 0.002). The c-index for the MADIT II score for predicting death was 0.69 (95% confidence interval 0.63 to 0.75). In conclusion, MADIT II risk score successfully identified patients with greater mortality in a nontrial-based, primary-prevention ICD cohort.

UI  - 23672991
TI  - Thrombocytopenia in patients with atrial fibrillation on oral anticoagulation undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention.
AB  - Thrombocytopenia is often regarded as a risk factor for bleeding complications in patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). The risk of mild to moderate baseline and acquired thrombocytopenia on bleeding and thrombotic or thromboembolic complications in patients with atrial fibrillation on oral anticoagulation therapy undergoing PCI, however, remains largely unknown. Management of Patients With Atrial Fibrillation undergoing Coronary Artery Stenting is a multicenter European prospective registry enrolling patients with atrial fibrillation undergoing PCI. We assessed the rate of bleeding complications as defined by Bleeding Academic Research Consortium and a composite of major adverse cardiac and cerebrovascular events (MACCE) including all-cause mortality, myocardial infarction, transient ischemic attack or stroke, stent thrombosis, systemic arterial embolism, or revascularization; and a composite of any harmful event (Bleeding Academic Research Consortium and MACCE) at 12-month follow-up in 861 consecutive patients undergoing PCI. Patients were divided into those with mild to moderate baseline thrombocytopenia (platelet count <150  10/L; n = 99) and control group (platelet count >150  10/L; n = 762). At hospital discharge, thrombocytopenia had no effect on prescribed antithrombotic treatment, and triple therapy (vitamin K antagonist + aspirin + clopidogrel) was the most common combination in both patient groups (69% vs 73%, p = 0.40). No differences in all-cause mortality (12% vs 11%, p = 0.79), MACCE (23% vs 22%, p = 0.87), or bleeding complications (23% vs 19%, p = 0.26) were detected. Acquired in-hospital thrombocytopenia occurred in 9.7% of patients, and it was associated with similar risk of adverse outcomes compared with control group. In conclusion, mild to moderate baseline thrombocytopenia does not seem to have a clinically significant effect on bleeding or thrombotic or thromboembolic complications after PCI in these frail patients receiving multiple antithrombotic drugs.

UI  - 23670880
TI  - A prospective randomized study comparing isolation of the arrhythmogenic vein versus all veins in paroxysmal atrial fibrillation.
AB  - Isolation of the aPVs detected by a straightforward algorithm leads to similar success rates compared to a standard all-PV approach with regard to PD, AE, or PE and is associated with less RF and a shorter FT.

UI  - 23669885
TI  - Factors affecting quality of anticoagulation control among patients with atrial fibrillation on warfarin: the SAMe-TTR score.
AB  - Common clinical and demographic factors can influence the quality of oral anticoagulation. We incorporated these factors into a simple score (SAMe-TTR) that can predict poor INR control and aid decision-making by identifying those patients with AF who would do well on VKA (SAMe-TTR score = 0-1), or conversely, those who require additional interventions to achieve acceptable anticoagulation control (SAMe-TTR score  2).

UI  - 23669879
TI  - Neuromuscular responses to incremental caffeine doses: performance and side effects.
AB  - The ergogenic dose of caffeine required to enhance neuromuscular performance during a single all-out contraction depends on the magnitude of load used. A dose of 3 mg  kg(-1) is enough to improve high-velocity muscle actions against low loads, whereas a higher caffeine dose (9 mg  kg(-1)) is necessary against high loads, despite the appearance of adverse side effects.

UI  - 23667268
TI  - Efficacy of implantable cardioverter defibrillators in young patients with catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia: success depends on substrate.
AB  - ICD efficacy in catecholaminergic polymorphic VT depends on arrhythmia mechanism. Episodes of ventricular fibrillation were uniformly successfully treated, whereas polymorphic and bidirectional VT did not demonstrate successful primary termination. Inappropriate shocks, electrical storm, and ICD complications were common.

UI  - 23666576
TI  - Contributing factors to the apparent clearance of bepridil in patients with paroxysmal or persistent atrial fibrillation: analysis using population pharmacokinetics.
AB  - Using population PK methodology, this study showed that age was a contributing factor to the apparent clearance of bepridil in Japanese patients with AF and that excessive QT prolongation might be related to a larger AUC.

UI  - 23665098
TI  - Percutaneous left atrial appendage closure with the AMPLATZER cardiac plug device in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation and contraindications to anticoagulation therapy.
AB  - In patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation at high risk of cardioembolic events and absolute contraindications to anticoagulation, LAAC using the ACP device followed by dual-/single-antiplatelet therapy was associated with a low rate of embolic and bleeding events after a mean follow-up of 20 months. No cases of severe residual leak or device thrombosis were observed at the 6-month follow-up.

UI  - 23662846
TI  - CUTE-CV: a prospective study of enhanced left atrial appendage visualization with microbubble contrast agent use during transesophageal echocardiography guided cardioversion.
AB  - LAA dimensions and contractility indices were higher, artifacts were significantly differentiated, previously unsuspected LAA filling defects were identified, and the level of confidence in excluding thrombus was enhanced in the contrast images when compared to the noncontrast images. After 4 months follow-up, 1 stroke-associated death occurred in a patient who had LAA thrombus recognized only by contrast. Left atrial appendage visualization is enhanced with microbubble contrast agent use during transesophageal echocardiography guided cardioversion and is useful in identification of intracardiac thrombus.

UI  - 23662601
TI  - Long-term performance of beat-to-beat automatic ventricular threshold adjustment in infants with congenital atrioventricular block.
AB  - In epicardially paced CCAVB newborns, the ERS amplitude decreased significantly during the first year. ERS decrease was the most common reason for AC failure. At 1-year follow-up, AC was functional in only 53% of patients, although it could originally be activated in all patients. During the first year of follow-up, special attention to AC parameters is recommended in this subgroup of pediatric pacemaker patients.

UI  - 23661513
TI  - Non-valvular atrial fibrillation in the elderly; preliminary results from the National AFTER (Atrial Fibrillation in Turkey: Epidemiologic Registry) Study.
AB  - The rate of anticoagulant use in the elderly with AF was 37% and considering the reason of this situation was the medication not being prescribed by the physician, one should pay more attention particularly in the field of treatment.

UI  - 23659362
TI  - Three-dimensional speckle tracking echocardiography-derived left atrial strain parameters are reduced in patients with atrial fibrillation (results from the MAGYAR-path study).
AB  - 3DSTE-derived "uni-dimensional" LS, RS, CS, as well as novel strain parameters (3DS, AS) are significantly reduced in patients with AF compared to matched controls. 3DS and AS might be new strain parameters providing further insights into the alterations of LA function in patients developing AF.

UI  - 23652522
TI  - Effect of long-detection interval vs standard-detection interval for implantable cardioverter-defibrillators on antitachycardia pacing and shock delivery: the ADVANCE III randomized clinical trial.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00617175.

UI  - 23651827
TI  - Cholesterol-adjusted vitamin E serum levels are associated with cardiovascular events in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation.
AB  - Low vitamin E serum levels are associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular events in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation.

UI  - 23648081
TI  - Intravenous flurbiprofen axetil can stabilize the hemodynamic instability due to mesenteric traction syndrome--evaluation with continuous measurement of the systemic vascular resistance index using a FloTrac sensor.
AB  - Intravenous flurbiprofen axetil can stabilize the hemodynamic instability due to MTS.

UI  - 23645328
TI  - Prospectively ECG-triggered sequential dual-source coronary CT angiography in patients with atrial fibrillation: comparison with retrospectively ECG-gated helical CT.
AB  -  Coronary computed tomographic angiography (CCTA) can be difficult in patients with arrhythmias.  Prospectively ECG-triggered sequential CCTA is feasible in patients with atrial fibrillation.  Prospective sequential imaging can improve quality compared with retrospective analysis.  Prospective sequential imaging decreases radiation exposure by 64 % compared with retrospective mode.

UI  - 23645047
TI  - Evaluation of QT, QT dispersion, and T-wave peak to end time changes after primary percutaneous coronary intervention in patients presenting with acute ST-elevation myocardial infarction.
AB  - Our study showed that primary PCI was effective in reducing the degree of arrhythmogenic indices such as QTd and TPE. Our findings suggest that ischemia-induced QTd and TPE are important arrhythmogenic parameters responding to successful primary PCI and may be used as markers for successful repercussion.

UI  - 23644091
TI  - Benefit of pulmonary vein isolation guided by loss of pace capture on the ablation line: results from a prospective 2-center randomized trial.
AB  - The use of pacing to ensure UE along the PVI line markedly improved near-term single-procedure success, compared with demonstration of bidirectional block alone. This additional endpoint significantly improved patient outcomes after PVI. (Unexcitability Along the Ablation as an Endpoint for Atrial Fibrillation Ablation; NCT01724437).

UI  - 23640971
TI  - Efficacy and safety of apixaban compared with warfarin at different levels of predicted international normalized ratio control for stroke prevention in atrial fibrillation.
AB  - The benefits of apixaban compared with warfarin for stroke or systemic embolism, bleeding, and mortality appear similar across the range of centers' and patients' predicted quality of international normalized ratio control.

UI  - 23640245
TI  - Amiodarone monitoring practices in pediatric hospitals in the United States.
AB  - Laboratory monitoring of amiodarone therapy is recommended due to the high incidence of adverse events associated with the drug. The use of appropriate monitoring is unknown at pediatric hospitals. The Pediatric Health Information System database was queried during a 5-year period for all patients who received amiodarone while hospitalized. Use of thyroid function testing, hepatic function testing, electrocardiogram, pulmonary function testing, and chest X-ray for patients was identified. Incidence of individual monitoring tests and complete monitoring profile was identified and compared across patient demographic and clinical factors and pediatric hospital. A total of 1,703 patients met the study criteria, and the incidence of complete amiodarone monitoring for all patients was 7.6 %. The least common monitoring test performed was triiodothyronine at 19.4 %, and the most common was electrocardiogram at 89.7 %. Critically ill patients and neonates were more likely to have amiodarone monitoring. Considerable variation in monitoring practices between pediatric hospitals was identified. Monitoring of amiodarone therapy in patients admitted to pediatric hospitals is low. Future efforts to standardize care are warranted.

UI  - 23639624
TI  - Clinical significance of ventricular tachyarrhythmias in patients treated with CRT-D.
AB  - Slow VT episodes are predictive of subsequent fast VT/VF. Slow VT and fast VT/VF episodes in CRT-D patients are associated with an increased risk of subsequent HF/death. CRT-D-treated LBBB patients with slow VTs have a significantly higher risk of mortality.

UI  - 23636870
TI  - First experience with a novel robotic remote catheter system: Amigo mapping trial.
AB  - We found the Amigo RCS to be safe and effective for positioning a mapping catheter at sites within the right atrium and ventricle.

UI  - 23636869
TI  - Conduction recovery in patients with recurrent atrial fibrillation after pulmonary vein isolation using multi-electrode duty cycled radiofrequency ablation.
AB  - Almost all patients (98 %) with AF after PVAC ablation show reconnection of at least one PV. All PV's are equally likely to show reconnection. In the left PV's, reconnection was found more often anteriorly than posteriorly. During pulmonary vein isolation with the PVAC catheter, prevalent sites of reconnection deserve close attention to increase success.

UI  - 23629748
TI  - [Detection of vascular risk factors and unknown atrial fibrillation in patients hospitalised in the stroke unit].
AB  - Over half the subjects who suffer a cerebrovascular event have a risk factor that has not previously been diagnosed. Campaigns should be carried out to implement detection of these factors, and increased efforts must be made to lower the appearance and recurrence of vascular pathologies.

UI  - 23627803
TI  - Poor glycaemic control and arrhythmias.
AB  - The analysis of our sample shows that the arrhythmogenic condition is not only provided from diabetic condition per se but it is enhanced in PGC. Infact PGC patients showed higher number of VEBs, often polymorphic, expression of more severe arrhythmic and cardiovascular outcome. This could be partially explained by hyperactivation of autonomic nervous system during metabolic stress (which increases mean heart rate). Moreover more severe diabetic patients may present coronary microangiopathy that can further explain their arrhythmogenic tendency.

UI  - 23626977
TI  - Prediction of sleep bruxism events by increased heart rate.
AB  - Over 90% of SB events could be predicted by an increasing heart rate of 110%. Since the sensitivity and specificity were extremely high, the hypothesis that SB events could be predicted by increased heart rate was positively verified.

UI  - 23625944
TI  - Current strategy for treatment of patients with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome and asymptomatic preexcitation in Europe: European Heart Rhythm Association survey.
AB  - The aims of this survey was to provide insight into treatment activity, the strategy of treatment, and risk stratification of patients with asymptomatic and symptomatic ventricular pre-excitation across Europe. Fifty-eight centres, members of the European Heart Rhythm Association EP research network, covering 20 countries answered the survey questions. All centres were high-volume ablation centres. A younger person with asymptomatic Wolff-Parkinson-White (WPW) pattern has a higher likelihood of being risk-stratified or receiving ablation therapy compared with an older subject. Two-thirds of centres report that they have observed a decline in the number of patients ablated for an accessory pathway during the last 10 years. Pre-excited atrial fibrillation is rarely seen. Discontinuation of a scheduled WPW ablation due to close vicinity of the accessory pathway to the AV node happens very rarely. Patients with a first episode of pre-excited atrial fibrillation would immediately be referred for catheter ablation to be performed within weeks by 80.4% of the centres. A significant proportion of responders (50.9%) would use electrical cardioversion to restore sinus rhythm in a patient with pre-excited atrial fibrillation. With respect to the choice of antiarrhythmic medication for a patient with pre-excited AF, the majority (80.0%) would choose class 1C antiarrhytmic drugs while waiting for a catheter ablation. A patient seen in the emergency room with a second episode of orthodromic atrioventricular reentry tachycardia would be referred for immediate ablation by 79.2-90.6% of centres depending on the presence of pre-excitation. The volume of paediatric ablations performed on children younger than 12 years was low (46.4%: 0 patients per year; 46.4%: 1-9 patients per year). The majority of responding centres (61-69%) report that their country lack national guidelines dealing with clinical strategies related to WPW. There is a need for national guidelines dealing with clinical strategy in patients with WPW syndrome. Older individuals with asymptomatic WPW pattern have a higher risk of not receiving risk stratification or curative therapy with ablation compared with younger patients, despite the higher risk of developing atrial fibrillation.

UI  - 23625275
TI  - Catheter ablation for atrial fibrillation results in greater improvement in cardiac function in patients with low versus normal left ventricular ejection fraction.
AB  - The greater improvement in several cardiac functions was seen in patients with greater LV dysfunction, after the CA for CAF.

UI  - 23625093
TI  - Medium-term results of cryoballoon ablation of the pulmonary veins in patients with paroxysmal and persistent atrial fibrillation. First experience of a Spanish center.
AB  - CAPV appears to be a safe and effective procedure for the treatment of patients with AF, particularly those with paroxysmal AF and no structural heart disease.

UI  - 23625090
TI  - Cardiac hemodynamics and proinflammatory cytokines during biatrial and right atrial appendage pacing in patients with interatrial block.
AB  - BiA pacing in comparison to RAA pacing improves hemodynamic performance in patients with IAB and preserved atrio-ventricular conduction. BiA pacing is associated with reduction of ANP and markers of inflammation (hs-CRP, IL-6, and neopterin).

UI  - 23625037
TI  - Heart rate differentiates urgency and emergency in hypertensive crisis.
AB  - Normal heart rate is characteristic of hypertensive urgency. Tachycardia in this setting is an ominous sign and denotes hypertensive complications in particular left ventricular failure. Among diabetics, elevated heart rate is associated with poor glycemic control.

UI  - 23623647
TI  - Cost-effectiveness of dronedarone in patients with atrial fibrillation in the ATHENA trial.
AB  - Compared with generally accepted thresholds, our results indicate that treatment with dronedarone as in ATHENA is cost-effective.

UI  - 23617744
TI  - An international longitudinal registry of patients with atrial fibrillation at risk of stroke (GARFIELD): the UK protocol.
AB  - ClinicalTrial.gov: NCT01090362.

UI  - 23617533
TI  - Not-in-trial simulation I: Bridging cardiovascular risk from clinical trials to real-life conditions.
AB  - Our findings show that drug effects on QTc interval do not explain the observed QTc values in the population. The prevalence of high QTc values in the real-life population can be assigned to co-morbidities and concomitant medications. These findings substantiate the need to account for these factors when evaluating the cardiovascular risk of medicinal products.

UI  - 23617373
TI  - Profound sedation with propofol modifies atrial fibrillation dynamics.
AB  - During atrial fibrillation (AF), multiple wandering propagation wavelets at high rates drift around both atria under controversial hierarchical models. Antiarrhythmic drugs modify the cardiac ionic currents supporting the fibrillation process within the atria, and can alter AF propagation dynamics and even terminate the arrhythmia. However, some other drugs, theoretically nonantiarrhythmic, may slightly block particular cardiac ionic currents through uncertain mechanisms in such a subtle way at regular heart rates that may have been pharmacologically overlooked. These potential effects might be better exposed at much higher activation rates as in AF, where atrial cells depolarize over 400 times per second. In this review, we aimed to compile and discuss results from several studies evaluating the net effect of profound sedation with propofol on atrial cells and atrioventricular (AV) conduction. Propofol is a very commonly used anesthetic agent, and its possible effect on AF dynamics has systematically not been taken into account in the myriad of clinical studies dealing with AF intracardiac recordings. The possible effect of sedation with propofol on AF was evaluated through the analysis of AF propagation patterns before and after its infusion in a series of patients submitted to pulmonary vein ablation. Effect on AV conduction will be discussed as well.

UI  - 23615539
TI  - Is isolated aphasia a typical presentation of presumed cardioembolic transient ischemic attack or stroke?
AB  - Isolated aphasia is an independent sign of AF in patients with a TIA or minor ischemic stroke. Careful cardiac screening seems warranted in patients with isolated aphasia, as secondary prevention is different in patients with a cardiac source of embolism.

UI  - 23614585
TI  - Biventricular pacing for atrioventricular block and systolic dysfunction.
AB  - Biventricular pacing was superior to conventional right ventricular pacing in patients with atrioventricular block and left ventricular systolic dysfunction with NYHA class I, II, or III heart failure. (Funded by Medtronic; BLOCK HF ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00267098.).

UI  - 23436662
TI  - Assessment of baseline characteristics and risk factors among Emergency Department patients presenting with recent onset atrial fibrillation: a retrospective cohort study.
AB  - The present study represents an important snapshot of demographics, comorbidities, risk factors and anticoagulation management about patients with recent onset AF. Disparities were noted in anticoagulation management, suggesting that this is still a main problem among patients with AF.

UI  - 23612730
TI  - MediGuide in supraventricular tachycardia: initial experience from a multicentre registry.
AB  - In several different forms of supraventricular tachycardias the MediGuide-Technology contributed to a dramatic reduction in irradiation exposure. With a median fluoroscopy time of 30 s all SVT cases were effectively performed with no complications; the fluoroscopy burden can be significantly reduced not only for the patient but also for the nurses and the physicians performing the case. The overall procedure times are not prolonged due to the use of MediGuide Technology compared with a control group of >1800 patients undergoing conventional ablation procedures.

UI  - 23612364
TI  - Assessment of QRS duration and presence of fragmented QRS in patients with Behet's disease.
AB  - QRS duration is greater and fQRS complexes are more frequent in patients with BD. These findings may indicate subclinical cardiac involvement in BD. Given the prognostic significance of ECG parameters, it is reasonable to evaluate patients with BD with prolonged and fQRS complexes more in detail such as late potentials in signal averaged ECG in terms of cardiac involvement.

UI  - 23611569
TI  - Vilazodone lacks proarrhythmogenic potential in healthy participants: a thorough ECG study.
AB  - Vilazodone had no significant effect on cardiac repolarization, heart rate, PR or QRS interval duration, or ECG morphology in healthy adult participants.

UI  - 23611172
TI  - Heart rate-reducing effects of bisoprolol in Japanese patients with chronic atrial fibrillation: results of the MAIN-AF study.
AB  - This is the first quantitative analysis of -blocker monotherapy in AF patients. Bisoprolol exhibits a dose-responsive HR reduction when administered at sequential doses of 2.5mg/day and 5mg/day.

UI  - 23609479
TI  - Analysis of the potential effect of ponatinib on the QTc interval in patients with refractory hematological malignancies.
AB  - Ponatinib is associated with a low risk of QTc prolongation in patients with refractory hematological malignancies.

UI  - 23608971
TI  - Perioperative complications influence recurrence and survival after resection of hepatic colorectal metastases.
AB  - In this selected cohort of patients from a previous RCT, perioperative morbidity was strongly (and independently) associated with cancer-specific outcome. It also was associated with delayed initiation of postoperative chemotherapy, the impact of which on survival is unclear.

UI  - 23608592
TI  - Ganglionated plexus ablation vs linear ablation in patients undergoing pulmonary vein isolation for persistent/long-standing persistent atrial fibrillation: a randomized comparison.
AB  - PVI+GP ablation confers superior clinical results with less ablation-related left atrial flutter and reduced AF recurrence compared to PVI+LL ablation at 3 years of follow-up.

UI  - 23601079
TI  - Efficacy of additional radiofrequency applications for spontaneous dissociated pulmonary vein activity after pulmonary vein isolation in patients with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation.
AB  - DPV-spike after PVI may be associated with higher electrical activity within the PVs and may be one of the risk factors for AF recurrence. Additional RFCA for DPV-spike was effective to reduce the AF recurrence after PVI.

UI  - 23600893
TI  - Left atrial longitudinal strain parameters predict postoperative persistent atrial fibrillation following mitral valve surgery: a speckle tracking echocardiography study.
AB  - Postoperative atrial fibrillation (POAF) is common after cardiac surgery and is associated with increased morbidity, mortality, and prolonged hospital stay. Speckle tracking echocardiography (STE) has been applied recently for evaluation of LA function. The purpose of this study was to examine whether left atrial longitudinal strain measured by STE is a predictor for the development of POAF following mitral valve surgery for severe mitral regurgitation. We studied 53 patients undergoing mitral valve surgery in sinus rhythm at the time of surgery. Echocardiography with evaluation of LA strain by STE was performed. Detection of POAF was based on documentation of AF episodes by continuous telemetry throughout hospitalization. Patients who did not develop POAF were taken as group 1 and those who had POAF constituted group 2. The echocardiographic and clinical predictors of POAF were investigated. POAF occurred in 28.3% of subjects. Mean age, LAVi and BNP were found higher in group 2 while peak atrial longitudinal strain (PALS) (13.9  3.8% vs. 24.8  7.3%; P < 0.001), peak atrial contraction strain (PACS) (7.6  1.95% vs. 11.3  3.5%; P < 0.001) were significantly lower. By multivariate logistic regression analysis, PALS and LAVi were independent predictor of POAF development. LA longitudinal strain was found to predict POAF in patients undergoing mitral valve surgery. It could be used to better identify patients at greater risk of developing POAF, and thus to guide in risk stratification and to take appropriate intensive prophylactic therapy.

UI  - 23599170
TI  - Phantom shocks in patients with implantable cardioverter defibrillator: results from a randomized rehabilitation trial (COPE-ICD).
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov (ID: NCT00569478).

UI  - 23595943
TI  - Potential anatomic substrate of peri-atrioventricular nodal atrial tachycardia ablated from the noncoronary sinus of Valsalva.
AB  - Our data suggest that NCC-AT is characterized by a longer atrioventricular (AV) conduction time, steeper AS angle, and thicker IVS than are seen with AVNRT. These electrocardiographic and echocardiographic characteristics from the IVS to the peri-AV nodal regions may have some effect on the development of NCC-AT.

UI  - 23595086
TI  - Genetic background of catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia in Japan.
AB  - Thirty gene mutation carriers were found for 3 genes in 50 probands clinically diagnosed as having CPVT. The penetrance of CPVT phenotype was significantly higher in RYR2 mutation carriers, thus RYR2 gene screening in CPVT patients would be indispensable to prevent unexpected cardiac sudden death of young family members.

UI  - 23594592
TI  - Outcomes of apixaban vs. warfarin by type and duration of atrial fibrillation: results from the ARISTOTLE trial.
AB  - The risks of stroke, mortality, and major bleeding were lower with apixaban than warfarin regardless of AF type and duration. Although the risk of stroke or systemic embolism was lower in paroxysmal than persistent or permanent AF, apixaban is an attractive alternative to warfarin in patients with AF and at least one other risk factor for stroke, regardless of the type or duration of AF.

UI  - 23594360
TI  - Cardiac resynchronization therapy in patients with atrial fibrillation: a 2-year follow-up study.
AB  - In this study, no difference in mortality appears to exist between patients with or without AF and who undergo CRT implantation. Our findings of the beneficial effects of AV-node ablation and CRT-D in AF patients deserve further investigation.

UI  - 23594207
TI  - Spontaneous dissociated firing from the pulmonary veins during ablation of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation: implications and impact on arrhythmia-free survival.
AB  - In patients with paroxysmal AF undergoing ablation, DiFi from the PVs after their isolation was associated with improved ablation outcomes. It is possible that DiFi is an indicator of successful durable isolation of the PVs. The findings suggest that confirmation of exit block may be warranted to improve AF ablation outcomes.

UI  - 23592833
TI  - A randomized study of cardiac resynchronization therapy defibrillator versus dual-chamber implantable cardioverter-defibrillator in ischemic cardiomyopathy with narrow QRS: the NARROW-CRT study.
AB  - URL: http://clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT01577446.

UI  - 23592708
TI  - Lack of evidence of increased mortality among patients with atrial fibrillation taking digoxin: findings from post hoc propensity-matched analysis of the AFFIRM trial.
AB  - In patients with paroxysmal and persistent AF, we found no evidence of increased mortality or hospitalization in those taking digoxin as baseline initial therapy.

UI  - 23591293
TI  - High-intensity interval exercise improves vagal tone and decreases arrhythmias in chronic heart failure.
AB  - We demonstrate that a single session of HIIE improves autonomic profile of CHF patients, leading to significant reductions of HR and arrhythmic events in a 24-h posttraining period. Cardioprotective effects of HIIE in CHF patients need to be confirmed in a larger study population and on a long-term basis.

UI  - 23589315
TI  - Evaluation of the relationship between cetuximab therapy and corrected QT interval changes in patients with advanced malignancies from solid tumors.
AB  - These results suggest that cetuximab can be safely administered as a single agent without risk of effect on QTc interval.

UI  - 23586654
TI  - Thromboembolic event rate in paroxysmal and persistent atrial fibrillation: data from the GISSI-AF trial.
AB  - NCT00376272.

UI  - 23585345
TI  - Reduced diurnal variation of heart rate is associated with increased plasma B-type natriuretic peptide level in patients with atrial fibrillation.
AB  - The reduced diurnal variation of heart rate was significantly associated with increased BNP, which is linked to LV diastolic dysfunction in patients with AF.

UI  - 23585253
TI  - Remote magnetic with open-irrigated catheter vs. manual navigation for ablation of atrial fibrillation: a systematic review and meta-analysis.
AB  - The aim of this study was to determine the efficacy and safety of remote magnetic navigation (RMN) with open-irrigated catheter vs. manual catheter navigation (MCN) in performing atrial fibrillation (AF) ablation. We searched in PubMed (1948-2013) and EMBASE (1974-2013) studies comparing RMN with MCN. Outcomes considered were AF recurrence (primary outcome), pulmonary vein isolation (PVI), procedural complications, and data on procedure's performance. Odds ratios (OR) and mean difference (MD) were extracted and pooled using a random-effect model. Confidence in the estimates of the obtained effects (quality of evidence) was assessed using the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation approach. We identified seven controlled trials, six non-randomized and one randomized, including a total of 941 patients. Studies were at high risk of bias. No difference was observed between RMN and MCN on AF recurrence [OR 1.18, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.85 to 1.65, P = 0.32] or PVI (OR 0.41, 95% CI 0.11-1.47, P = 0.17). Remote magnetic navigation was associated with less peri-procedural complications (Peto OR 0.41, 95% CI 0.19-0.88, P = 0.02). Mean fluoroscopy time was reduced in RMN group (-22.22 min; 95% CI -42.48 to -1.96, P = 0.03), although the overall duration of the procedure was longer (60.91 min; 95% CI 31.17 to 90.65, P < 0.0001). In conclusion, RMN is not superior to MCN in achieving freedom from recurrent AF at mid-term follow-up or PVI. The procedure implies less peri-procedural complications, requires a shorter fluoroscopy time but a longer total procedural time. For the low quality of the available evidence, a proper designed randomized controlled trial could turn the direction and the effect of the dimensions explored.

UI  - 23585240
TI  - Dabigatran in the peri-procedural period for radiofrequency ablation of atrial fibrillation: efficacy, safety, and impact on duration of hospital stay.
AB  - Peri-procedural anticoagulation therapy with dabigatran for RFCA of AF was equally safe and effective compared with warfarin and heparin bridging. The use of dabigatran for RFCA of AF shortened the duration of hospital stay.

UI  - 23585009
TI  - [Efficacy and safety of ibutilide for conversion of atrial fibrillation/flutter].
AB  - Intravenous ibutilide is a safe and effective agent for cardioversion of recent-onset AF/AFL. Furthermore,strict processing under electrocardio-monitoring is important.

UI  - 23582676
TI  - Clinical impact of the implantable loop recorder in patients with isolated syncope, bundle branch block and negative workup: a randomized multicentre prospective study.
AB  - In this randomized prospective study, the ILR strategy proved largely superior to conventional follow-up in detecting recurrent events, with a potential impact on therapeutic management. This observation highlights the usefulness of early monitoring in patients with BBB and negative EPS even after the first syncope episode but an empiric pacemaker strategy remains to be validated in this selected population.

UI  - 23580744
TI  - Transcranial measurement of cerebral microembolic signals during pulmonary vein isolation: a comparison of two ablation techniques.
AB  - Duty-cycled radiofrequency ablation is associated with significantly more MESs, even when more aggressive anticoagulation is applied. With both techniques most of these microemboli are gaseous in nature.

UI  - 23579010
TI  - Dyssynchrony and the risk of ventricular arrhythmias.
AB  - Baseline LV dyssynchrony did not predict VT/VF/death or VT/VF in mild heart failure patients with or without LBBB. CRT-induced improvement of LV dyssynchrony was associated with significant reduction of ventricular arrhythmias in patients with LBBB.

UI  - 23578606
TI  - Effects of injectable HPCD-diclofenac on the human delayed rectifier potassium channel current in vitro and on proarrhythmic QTc in vivo.
AB  - The findings from the present study suggest that HPCD-diclofenac does not have a dose-dependent effect in the in vitro hERG assay system and does not produce proarrhythmic QTc prolongation in vivo. ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT01812538.

UI  - 23577826
TI  - Assessing arrhythmia burden after catheter ablation of atrial fibrillation using an implantable loop recorder: the ABACUS study.
AB  - In AF ablation patients, ILR can detect more arrhythmias than CM. However, false detection remains a challenge. With adequate oversight, ILRs may be useful in monitoring these patients after ablation.

UI  - 23575759
TI  - A randomized trial of early versus delayed mediastinal drain removal after cardiac surgery using silastic and conventional tubes.
AB  - In patients undergoing ascending aortic or valvular surgery, prolonged drainage with silastic tubes is safe and does not increase postoperative pain. There was no difference between the Blake and conventional drains with regard to significant pericardial effusion or tamponade in this cohort; however, this conclusion is limited by the low overall incidence of the primary outcome in this cohort.

UI  - 23575362
TI  - L-type calcium channel mutations in Japanese patients with inherited arrhythmias.
AB  - We identified 6 CACNA1C mutations in BrS and IVF patients and their phenotypes were varied. Although mutation frequency was not high, screening of LTCC channel genes may be clinically important to prevent unexpected sudden death.

UI  - 23572499
TI  - Results from a single-blind, randomized study comparing the impact of different ablation approaches on long-term procedure outcome in coexistent atrial fibrillation and flutter (APPROVAL).
AB  - URL: http://www.clinicaltrial.gov/. Unique identifier: NCT01439386.

UI  - 23567660
TI  - Does the number of simultaneously activated electrodes during phased RF multielectrode ablation of atrial fibrillation influence the incidence of silent cerebral microembolism?
AB  - Limiting the number of simultaneously activated electrode pairs to 2 significantly reduces the rate of ACE in patients treated with a multielectrode duty-cycled phased radiofrequency catheter system for AF. This reduction corresponds with a significant prolongation of the total procedure time.

UI  - 23566712
TI  - Hydroxyethyl starch 6%, 130/0.4 vs. a balanced crystalloid solution in cardiopulmonary bypass priming: a randomized, prospective study.
AB  - 6% hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 when used as a prime solution did not adversely affect postoperative outcomes including renal functions and postoperative blood transfusion following coronary bypass surgery.

UI  - 23563134
TI  - N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide for risk assessment in patients with atrial fibrillation: insights from the ARISTOTLE Trial (Apixaban for the Prevention of Stroke in Subjects With Atrial Fibrillation).
AB  - NT-proBNP levels are often elevated in AF and independently associated with an increased risk of stroke and mortality. NT-proBNP improves risk stratification beyond the CHA2DS2VASc score and might be a novel tool for improved stroke prediction in AF. The efficacy of apixaban compared with warfarin is independent of the NT-proBNP level. (Apixaban for the Prevention of Stroke in Subjects With Atrial Fibrillation [ARISTOTLE]; NCT00412984).

UI  - 23563126
TI  - Direct or coincidental elimination of stable rotors or focal sources may explain successful atrial fibrillation ablation: on-treatment analysis of the CONFIRM trial (Conventional ablation for AF with or without focal impulse and rotor modulation).
AB  - Elimination of stable AF rotors and focal sources may explain freedom from AF after diverse approaches to ablation. Patient-specific AF source distributions are consistent with the reported success of specific anatomic lesion sets and of widespread ablation. These results support targeting AF sources to reduce unnecessary ablation, and motivate studies on FIRM-only ablation.

UI  - 23562211
TI  - Higher frequency of atrial fibrillation linked to colder seasons and air temperature on the day of ischemic stroke onset.
AB  - In this cohort of AIS patients, atrial fibrillation showed a seasonal variation and a nonhomogeneous distribution across air temperatures, with peaks in cold seasons and low temperatures on the day of stroke onset.

UI  - 23559674
TI  - Pulmonary vein isolation using a visually guided laser balloon catheter: the first 200-patient multicenter clinical experience.
AB  - In this multicenter experience of the first 200 patients treated with the VGLA catheter, PV isolation can be achieved in virtually all patients using a single VGLA catheter with an efficacy similar to radiofrequency ablation.

UI  - 23558873
TI  - Assessment of the cardiac safety and pharmacokinetics of a short course, twice daily dose of orally-administered mifepristone in healthy male subjects.
AB  - Mifepristone did not cause a clinically meaningful QTc prolongation in healthy volunteers at plasma concent rations of mifepristone and its main metabolites that clearly exceeded those seen in a previous TQT study.

UI  - 23557609
TI  - Quality of anticoagulation with warfarin across Kuwait.
AB  - The quality of anticoagulation with warfarin in non-selected daily practice in Kuwait is poor. This could have serious implications for patients' outcomes.

UI  - 23557171
TI  - Left atrial functional remodeling in lone atrial fibrillation: a two-dimensional speckle tracking echocardiographic study.
AB  - Remodeling of LA booster pump, reservoir, and conduit function in LAF patients can be detected by 2DSTE before structural remodeling. Occurrence of LAF is associated with impairment of LA intrinsic myocardial properties. LASa can differentiate LAF patients and lower LASa is associated with early recurrence of AF after ablation.

UI  - 23553637
TI  - Sex differences in the effect of four second-generation antipsychotics on QTc interval in patients with schizophrenia.
AB  - To our knowledge, this is the first study to demonstrate sex differences in the effect of four SGAs on the QTc interval.

UI  - 23553534
TI  - Effect of intravenous zanamivir on cardiac repolarization.
AB  - Intravenous zanamivir does not affect cardiac repolarization. Accordingly, treatment with intravenous zanamivir does not require additional cardiac monitoring beyond the standard of care.

UI  - 23551460
TI  - Long-term efficacy and safety of two different rhythm control strategies in elderly patients with symptomatic persistent atrial fibrillation.
AB  - In elderly persistent AF patients, catheter ablation is more effective in maintaining SR and in improving QoL than AAD but is affected by a higher risk of embolic complications, particularly in patients with previous TIA/stroke. Over time, Group A patients more likely discontinued AAD with a reduction of long-term adverse events.

UI  - 23549489
TI  - In-hospital management and outcome of patients on warfarin undergoing coronary stent implantation: results of the multicenter, prospective WARfarin and coronary STENTing (WAR-STENT) registry.
AB  - The in-hospital management of patients on warfarin undergoing coronary stent implantation (PCI-S) is variable, and the in-hospital outcome incompletely defined. To determine the adherence to the current recommendations, and the incidence of adverse events, we carried out the prospective, multicenter, observational WARfarin and coronary STENTing (WAR-STENT) registry (ClinicalTrials.gov identifier NCT00722319). All consecutive patients on warfarin undergoing PCI-S at 37 Italian centers were enrolled and followed for 12 months. Outcome measures were: major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE), including cardiovascular death, non-fatal myocardial infarction, need for urgent revascularization, stroke, and venous thromboembolism, and major and minor bleeding. In this paper, we report the in-hospital findings. Out of the 411 patients enrolled, 92% were at non-low (ie, moderate or high) thromboembolic risk. The radial approach and bare-metal stents were used in 61% and 60% of cases, respectively. Drug-eluting stents were essentially reserved to patients with diabetes, which in turn, significantly predicted the implantation of drug-eluting stents (odds ratio [OR], 2.02; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.29-3.17; P=.002). The in-hospital MACE and major bleeding rates were 2.7% and 2.1%, respectively. At discharge, triple therapy (TT) of warfarin, aspirin, and clopidogrel was prescribed to 76% of patients. Prescription of TT was significantly more frequent in the non-low thromboembolic risk group. Non-low thromboembolic risk, in turn, was a significant predictor of TT prescription (OR, 11.2; 95% CI, 4.83-26.3; P<.0001). In conclusion, real-world warfarin patients undergoing PCI-S are largely managed according to the current recommendations. As a consequence, the risk of in-hospital MACE and major bleedings appears limited and acceptable.

UI  - 23548960
TI  - Critical pertussis illness in children: a multicenter prospective cohort study.
AB  - Pulmonary hypertension may be associated with mortality in pertussis critical illness. Elevated WBC is associated with the need for mechanical ventilation, pulmonary hypertension, and mortality risk. Research is indicated to elucidate how pulmonary hypertension, immune responsiveness, and elevated WBC contribute to morbidity and mortality and whether leukoreduction might be efficacious.

UI  - 23548422
TI  - [State of the structure and functions of the arterial wall in patients with chronic heart failure against the background of permanent atrial fibrillation and assessment of vasoprotective effect of omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids].
AB  - structurally functional remodeling of the arterial wall in patients with chronic heart failure of ischemic etiology and persistent AF has a definite pattern of forming. Omega-3 fatty acids have a vasoprotective effect, providing improving elastic properties of the arteries by preventing fibrosis.

UI  - 23544333
TI  - [The preventive effect of flurbiprofen on preventing mesenteric traction syndrome].
AB  - Our results indicate that pretreatment with flurbiprofen might prevent MTS.

UI  - 23541974
TI  - Rapid-rate nonsustained ventricular tachycardia found on implantable cardioverter-defibrillator interrogation: relationship to outcomes in the SCD-HeFT (Sudden Cardiac Death in Heart Failure Trial).
AB  - RR-NSVT identified on routine ICD interrogation should be considered an important clinical event. RR-NSVT during ICD interrogation is associated with appropriate ICD shocks and all-cause mortality. The clinical evaluation of patients with RR-NSVT should include intensification of medical therapy, particularly beta-blockers, or other appropriate clinical interventions. (Sudden Cardiac Death in Heart Failure Trial [SCD-HeFT]; NCT00000609).

UI  - 23540545
TI  - Comparison of rate versus rhythm control in patients with atrial fibrillation and a pacemaker.
AB  - The effect of rate versus rhythm control in patients with atrial fibrillation who have undergone previous pacemaker (PM) implantation is unknown. We evaluated the mortality in patients with atrial fibrillation and a PM randomized to rate or rhythm control treatment strategies. The Atrial Fibrillation Follow-up Investigation of Rhythm Management data set was stratified by the presence (n = 250) or absence (n = 3,810) of a PM at randomization into the rate or rhythm control arm. Kaplan-Meier curves were used for univariate analysis, and proportional hazards were used for multivariate analysis. The subjects with a PM (n = 250) were older (73 vs 69 years, p <0.01) and had a greater prevalence of coronary artery disease (53% vs 37%, p <0.01) and congestive heart failure (33% vs 23%, p <0.01). All-cause mortality was significantly greater in the PM patients who were randomized to the rhythm control arm (n = 128) than in the patients enrolled in the rate control arm with or without a PM (n = 2,027, p <0.01) and those in the rhythm control arm without a PM (n = 1,905, p <0.01). Multivariate analysis revealed that predictors of all-cause mortality included PM patients randomized to the rhythm control arm (hazard ratio 2.59, 95% confidence interval 1.46 to 4.58, p <0.01) and the presence of congestive heart failure (hazard ratio 2.42, 95% confidence interval 1.40 to 4.16, p <0.01). In conclusion, all-cause mortality was greater among patients with atrial fibrillation with a PM, who were randomized to the rhythm control arm of the Atrial Fibrillation Follow-up Investigation of Rhythm Management study compared with all other patients enrolled in the Atrial Fibrillation Follow-up Investigation of Rhythm Management study. The rhythm control strategy in patients with a PM was an independent predictor of mortality.

UI  - 23539553
TI  - CHADS2 and CHA2DS2-VASc score to assess risk of stroke and death in patients paced for sick sinus syndrome.
AB  - CHADS2 and CHA2DS2-VASc score are associated with increased risk of stroke and death in patients paced for SSS irrespective of the presence of AF.

UI  - 23537974
TI  - Admission heart rate and in-hospital outcomes in patients hospitalized for heart failure in sinus rhythm and in atrial fibrillation.
AB  - Higher admission heart rate is independently associated with worse outcomes in patients admitted for HF, including those in SR and AF. Whether early heart rate reduction improves outcomes in patients hospitalized with HF is worthy of investigation.

UI  - 23535197
TI  - Significant improvement of left atrial and left atrial appendage function after catheter ablation for persistent atrial fibrillation.
AB  - Successful CA is associated with LA reverse remodeling and LA/LAA functional recovery in patients with persistent AF. LA systolic strain and LAA wall velocity at baseline predicted both maintenance of SR and LA reverse remodeling.
