
UI  - 24964505
TI  - [Frequency of use of oral vitamin K antagonists in patients with atrial fibrillation and cognitive function disturbances].
AB  - Along with the advancing age, there is an increase of the incidence of persistent and fixed atrial fibrillation, of the risk of thromboembolic complications and of the severity of cognitive function disturbances. Treatment with oral vitamin K antagonists was implemented much less frequently among patients with atrial fibrillation and cognitive function disturbances, as compared to the patients with normal cognitive function. The MMSE test should be routinely performed in patients with atrial fibrillation to monitor the efficacy and safety of the treatment with oral vitamin K antagonists properly. In patients with disturbances of cognitive function, significantly lower reportability of AF-related complaints was shown, as compared to individuals without these disturbances. Patients with normal MMSE result were referred to the hospital because AF-related symptoms, in the group of patients with MMSE < 23 the main reason for hospitalization was the severity of the symptoms heart failure. ECG should be a routine test performed in elderly patients with cognitive function disturbances or with dementia to detect atrial fibrillation.

UI  - 24916911
TI  - Modification of outcomes with aspirin or apixaban in relation to female and male sex in patients with atrial fibrillation: a secondary analysis of the AVERROES study.
AB  - Female patients with atrial fibrillation had higher ischemic stroke rates compared with male patients, but the relative effects of apixaban compared with aspirin on both ischemic stroke and bleeding were similar in men and women.

UI  - 24908854
TI  - Retrospective costing of warfarin.
AB  - In Ireland, there are four anticoagulants available for prescribing to patients with atrial fibrillation for stroke prevention. A key feature of the three most recent anticoagulants is that monitoring is redundant. Despite this, there is continued prescribing of the incumbent anticoagulant, warfarin, which requires monitoring. Lack of information regarding the cost of monitoring, and the extra burden it places on health budgets and patients, motivated this costing study. Using micro costing, the costs of warfarin treatment (including monitoring) was disaggregated and isolated from both the patients' and health care provider's perspectives in a Cork hospital. Costs to the health care provider per patient per clinic visited were 21.57 Euros. Patient costs incurred per patient per clinic were 48.50 Euros. Thus, the total costs per patient per visit were 70.07 Euros. This result reveals that while the pharmaceutical cost of warfarin is low; it is not an inexpensive therapy when monitoring costs are considered.

UI  - 24852915
TI  - Relation of T-wave alternans to mortality and nonsustained ventricular tachycardia in patients with non-ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndrome from the MERLIN-TIMI 36 trial of ranolazine versus placebo.
AB  - We explored the utility of T-wave alternans (TWA) in predicting mortality in patients with non-ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndrome (NSTEACS). Maximum TWA was calculated using Modified Moving Average method from continuous electrocardiographic recordings in patients with left ventricular ejection fraction <40% and ventricular tachycardia (VT) 4 beats during index hospitalization or sudden cardiac death during thefollow-up year and age- and sex-matched controls in the Metabolic Efficiency withRanolazine for Less Ischemia in Non-ST Elevation Acute Coronary Syndrome-Thrombolysis In Myocardial Infarction (MERLIN-TIMI) 36 trial. All patients received standard therapy for NSTEACS plus ranolazine (n= 109) or placebo (n= 101). Median follow-up was 1year. Baseline clinical characteristics did not differ between patients with elevated TWA (47V) compared with lower levels. Patients with TWA 47V at admission had increased risk of total mortality (adjusted odds ratio [ORadj] 2.35, p= 0.04) during follow-up and VT 4 beats (ORadj 2.70, p= 0.01) during hospitalization with a trend toward increased cardiovascular death risk (ORadj 2.18, p= 0.07) during follow-up. In patients receiving placebo, TWA 47V on day 6 was associated with increased risk of total mortality (OR 4.12, 95% confidence interval 1.25 to 13.64, p= 0.02) and cardiovascular death (OR 4.73, p= 0.01) during follow-up. No deaths occurred among patients with TWA 47V assigned to ranolazine. In conclusion, in patients with NSTEACS and left ventricular ejection fraction <40%, TWA 47V early after admission is associated with increased risk of mortality at 1year and with nonsustained VT during hospitalization. TWA may be useful in risk estimation in patients with NSTEACS. The possibility that TWA may serve as a therapeutic target deserves further exploration.

UI  - 24793675
TI  - Performance of bleeding risk-prediction scores in patients with atrial fibrillation undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention.
AB  - The hypertension, abnormal renal/liver function, stroke, bleeding history or predisposition, labile international normalized ratio, elderly, and drugs/alcohol (HAS-BLED); anticoagulation and risk factors in atrial fibrillation (ATRIA); modified Outpatient Bleeding Risk Index (mOBRI); and reduction of atherothrombosis for continued health (REACH) schemes are validated bleeding risk-prediction tools, but their predictive performance in patients with AF receiving multiple antithrombotic drugs after percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) is unknown. We sought to compare the predictive performance of bleeding risk-estimation tools in a cohort of patients with atrial fibrillation (AF) undergoing PCI. Management of patients with AF undergoing coronary artery stenting is a multicenter European prospective registry enrolling patients with AF undergoing PCI. We calculated HAS-BLED, ATRIA, mOBRI, and REACH bleeding risk-prediction scores and assessed the rate of bleeding complications as defined by Bleeding Academic Research Consortium at 12 months follow-up in 929 consecutive patients undergoing PCI. Increasing age, femoral access site, and previous peptic ulcer were independent determinants of bleeding. Low bleeding risk scores as determined by HAS-BLED 0 to 2, ATRIA 0 to 3, mOBRI 0, and REACH 0 to 10 were detected in 23.7%, 73.0%, 7.8%, and 5.7% of patients of the cohort, respectively. No significant differences were detected in the rates of any bleeding or major bleeding events for low versus intermediate/high scores with each risk-prediction tool. In conclusion, the performance of ATRIA, HAS-BLED, mOBRI, and REACH scores in predicting bleeding complications in this high-risk patient subset was useless.

UI  - 24766974
TI  - Resuscitation Outcomes Consortium-Amiodarone, Lidocaine or Placebo Study (ROC-ALPS): Rationale and methodology behind an out-of-hospital cardiac arrest antiarrhythmic drug trial.
AB  - Results from ALPS will provide important information about the choice and value of antiarrhythmic therapies for VF/VT arrest with direct implications for resuscitation guidelines and clinical practice.

UI  - 24755126
TI  - Warfarin compared with aspirin for older Chinese patients with stable coronary heart diseases and atrial fibrillation complications.
AB  - Warfarin was found to be more efficacious than aspirin for an anticoagulation therapy of older Chinese patients with AF and stable coronary heart disease.

UI  - 24743444
TI  - Intracranial hemorrhage among patients with atrial fibrillation anticoagulated with warfarin or rivaroxaban: the rivaroxaban once daily, oral, direct factor Xa inhibition compared with vitamin K antagonism for prevention of stroke and embolism trial in atrial fibrillation.
AB  - Among patients with atrial fibrillation treated with anticoagulation, the risk of ICH was higher among Asians, blacks, the elderly, and in those with previous stroke or transient ischemic attack, increased diastolic blood pressure, and reduced platelet count or serum albumin at baseline. The risk of ICH was significantly lower in patients with heart failure and in those who were randomized to rivaroxaban instead of warfarin. The external validity of these findings requires testing in other atrial fibrillation populations.

UI  - 24692475
TI  - Warfarin versus aspirin for prevention of cognitive decline in atrial fibrillation: randomized controlled trial (Birmingham Atrial Fibrillation Treatment of the Aged Study).
AB  - http://www.controlled-trials.com. Unique identifier: ISRCTN89345269.

UI  - 24682387
TI  - Lack of concordance between empirical scores and physician assessments of stroke and bleeding risk in atrial fibrillation: results from the Outcomes Registry for Better Informed Treatment of Atrial Fibrillation (ORBIT-AF) registry.
AB  - http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT01165710.

UI  - 24657685
TI  - Major bleeding in patients with atrial fibrillation receiving apixaban or warfarin: The ARISTOTLE Trial (Apixaban for Reduction in Stroke and Other Thromboembolic Events in Atrial Fibrillation): Predictors, Characteristics, and Clinical Outcomes.
AB  - Apixaban, compared with warfarin, was associated with fewer intracranial hemorrhages, less adverse consequences following extracranial hemorrhage, and a 50% reduction in fatal consequences at 30 days in cases of major hemorrhage.

UI  - 24576516
TI  - Design and rationale of Global Registry on Long-Term Oral Antithrombotic Treatment in Patients with Atrial Fibrillation: a global registry program on long-term oral antithrombotic treatment in patients with atrial fibrillation.
AB  - Novel features of this registry program will add data from clinical practice to those from randomized trials to expand knowledge of antithrombotic treatment in patients with AF.

UI  - 24552831
TI  - Outcomes of temporary interruption of rivaroxaban compared with warfarin in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation: results from the rivaroxaban once daily, oral, direct factor Xa inhibition compared with vitamin K antagonism for prevention of stroke and embolism trial in atrial fibrillation (ROCKET AF).
AB  - http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00403767.

UI  - 24530792
TI  - Bleeding events among new starters and switchers to dabigatran compared with warfarin in atrial fibrillation.
AB  - VKA-nave warfarin initiators had the highest overall bleeding rate. We found no evidence of marked excess of overall bleeding events when comparing dabigatran with warfarin users, irrespective of prior VKA experience.

UI  - 24507168
TI  - Outcomes in atrial fibrillation patients with and without left ventricular hypertrophy when treated with a lenient rate-control or rhythm-control strategy.
AB  - Although left ventricular (LV) hypertrophy has been proposed as a factor predisposing to atrial fibrillation (AF), its relevance to prognosis and selection of therapeutic strategies is unclear. We identified 2,105 patients with echocardiographic data on LV mass enrolled in the Atrial Fibrillation Follow-up Investigation of Rhythm Management (AFFIRM) trial. LV hypertrophy was defined as increased LV mass, stratified by American Society of Echocardiography criteria. The primary end point was all-cause mortality, secondary end point was as per AFFIRM trial definition, and tertiary end point was cardiovascular hospitalizations. We compared "strict" versus "lenient" rate control in patients with increased LV mass, and studied association of heart failure (HF) with preserved and decreased systolic function in patients with increased LV mass. Over 6 years, 332 deaths (15.7%) were reported. Adjusted hazard ratio (HR) of severely increased LV mass for all-cause mortality was 1.34 (95% confidence interval [CI] 1.01 to 1.79, p=0.045) for the overall population and 1.61 (95% CI 1.09 to 2.37, p=0.016) for the rhythm-control arm. Increased LV mass was a predictor of cardiovascular hospitalizations in the lenient rate-control group (HR 1.72, 95% CI 1.05 to 2.82, p=0.03) but not in the strict rate-control group. Severely increased LV mass was predictive of cardiovascular hospitalizations in patients with HF with preserved (HR 1.8, 95% CI 1.0 to 3.2, p=0.03) and decreased LV systolic function (HR 2.4, 95% CI 1.1 to 5.2, p=0.02). Thus, LV hypertrophy is a significant independent predictor of mortality in patients with AF, especially those managed with rhythm control. In patients with LV hypertrophy, strict rate control may be associated with better outcomes than lenient rate control. LV hypertrophy portends higher cardiovascular morbidity in patients with AF and HF.

UI  - 24470482
TI  - Antiplatelet therapy for stable coronary artery disease in atrial fibrillation patients taking an oral anticoagulant: a nationwide cohort study.
AB  - In atrial fibrillation patients with stable coronary artery disease, the addition of antiplatelet therapy to VKA therapy is not associated with a reduction in risk of recurrent coronary events or thromboembolism, whereas risk of bleeding is increased significantly. The common practice of adding antiplatelet therapy to oral VKA anticoagulation in patients with atrial fibrillation and stable coronary artery disease warrants reassessment.

UI  - 24412445
TI  - Feasibility and safety of uninterrupted rivaroxaban for periprocedural anticoagulation in patients undergoing radiofrequency ablation for atrial fibrillation: results from a multicenter prospective registry.
AB  - Uninterrupted rivaroxaban therapy appears to be as safe and efficacious in preventing bleeding and thromboembolic events in patients undergoing AF ablation as uninterrupted warfarin therapy.

UI  - 24359765
TI  - Prognostic usefulness of left ventricular hypertrophy by electrocardiography in patients with atrial fibrillation (from the Randomized Evaluation of Long-Term Anticoagulant Therapy Study).
AB  - It is unknown whether left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) diagnosis by electrocardiography improves risk stratification in patients with atrial fibrillation (AF). We investigated the prognostic impact of LVH diagnosis by electrocardiography in a large sample of anticoagulated patients with AF included in the Randomized Evaluation of Long-Term Anticoagulant Therapy (RE-LY) Study. We defined electrographic LVH (ECG-LVH) by strain pattern or Cornell voltage (R wave in aVL plus S wave in V3) >2.0 mV (women) or >2.4 mV (men). LVH prevalence was 22.7%. During a median follow-up of 2.0 years, 303 patients developed a stroke, 778 died (497 from cardiovascular causes), and 140 developed a myocardial infarction. LVH was associated with a greater risk of stroke (1.99% vs 1.32% per year, hazard ratio [HR] 1.51, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.18 to 1.93, p <0.001), cardiovascular death (4.52% vs 1.80% per year, HR 2.56, 95% CI 2.14 to 3.06, p <0.0001), all-cause death (6.03% vs 3.11% per year, HR 1.95, 95% CI 1.68 to 2.26, p <0.0001), and myocardial infarction (1.11% vs 0.55% per year, HR 2.07, 95% CI 1.47 to 2.92, p <0.0001). In multivariate analysis, the prognostic value of LVH was additive to CHA2DS2-VASc score and other covariates. The category-free net reclassification index and integrated discrimination improvement increased significantly after adding LVH to multivariate models. In conclusion, our study demonstrates for the first time that ECG-LVH, a simple and easily accessible prognostic indicator, improves risk stratification in anticoagulated patients with AF.

UI  - 24323795
TI  - Efficacy and safety of dabigatran compared with warfarin in relation to baseline renal function in patients with atrial fibrillation: a RE-LY (Randomized Evaluation of Long-term Anticoagulation Therapy) trial analysis.
AB  - http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00262600.

UI  - 24315894
TI  - Factors associated with major bleeding events: insights from the ROCKET AF trial (rivaroxaban once-daily oral direct factor Xa inhibition compared with vitamin K antagonism for prevention of stroke and embolism trial in atrial fibrillation).
AB  - Rivaroxaban and warfarin had similar risk for major/nonmajor clinically relevant bleeding. Age, sex, DBP, prior GI bleeding, prior acetylsalicylic acid use, and anemia were associated with the risk of major bleeding. (An Efficacy and Safety Study of Rivaroxaban With Warfarin for the Prevention of Stroke and Non-Central Nervous System Systemic Embolism in Patients With Non-Valvular Atrial Fibrillation: NCT00403767).

UI  - 24259690
TI  - Challenges of anticoagulation for atrial fibrillation in patients with severe sepsis.
AB  - Administration of anticoagulation for elderly patients with a CHADS2 score at 2 or more in the setting of sepsis can be associated with an increased risk of anticoagulation-related complications (eg, bleeding, heparin-induced thrombocytopenia). Managing and targeting a therapeutic goal with warfarin therapy in critically ill patients with sepsis is challenging. Further studies are necessary to provide appropriate recommendations in this setting.

UI  - 24251363
TI  - A randomized trial of genotype-guided dosing of warfarin.
AB  - Pharmacogenetic-based dosing was associated with a higher percentage of time in the therapeutic INR range than was standard dosing during the initiation of warfarin therapy. (Funded by the European Commission Seventh Framework Programme and others; ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT01119300.).

UI  - 24251359
TI  - Edoxaban versus warfarin in patients with atrial fibrillation.
AB  - Both once-daily regimens of edoxaban were noninferior to warfarin with respect to the prevention of stroke or systemic embolism and were associated with significantly lower rates of bleeding and death from cardiovascular causes. (Funded by Daiichi Sankyo Pharma Development; ENGAGE AF-TIMI 48 ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00781391.).

UI  - 24226808
TI  - High-sensitivity troponin I for risk assessment in patients with atrial fibrillation: insights from the Apixaban for Reduction in Stroke and other Thromboembolic Events in Atrial Fibrillation (ARISTOTLE) trial.
AB  - http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00412984.

UI  - 24222839
TI  - Safety of intravenous ivabradine in acute ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction patients treated with primary percutaneous coronary intervention: a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, pilot study.
AB  - This pilot study shows that intravenous ivabradine may be used safely to slow the heart rate in STEMI. Further studies are needed to characterize its effect on infarct size, left ventricular function and clinical outcomes in this population.

UI  - 24211508
TI  - Efficacy and safety of apixaban in patients after cardioversion for atrial fibrillation: insights from the ARISTOTLE Trial (Apixaban for Reduction in Stroke and Other Thromboembolic Events in Atrial Fibrillation).
AB  - Major cardiovascular events after cardioversion of atrial fibrillation are rare and comparable between warfarin andapixaban. (Apixaban for Reduction in Stroke and Other Thromboembolic Events in Atrial Fibrillation [ARISTOTLE]; NCT00412984).

UI  - 24195206
TI  - [Clinical efficacy observation on paroxysmal atrial fibrillation treated by acupuncture combined with Wenxin granule].
AB  - Acupuncture combined with Wenxin granule has a better effect than simple Wenxin granule therapy in the treatment of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation.

UI  - 24166490
TI  - Vitamin E serum levels and bleeding risk in patients receiving oral anticoagulant therapy: a retrospective cohort study.
AB  - In a NVAF population being treated with warfarin, serum vitamin E predicted hemorrhagic events. Further study is necessary to see if the relationship between serum levels of vitamin E and bleeding is still maintained with the use of new anticoagulants.

UI  - 24163147
TI  - Validation of a patient decision aid for choosing between dabigatran and warfarin for atrial fibrillation.
AB  - Our DA to allow patients to make an informed decision with their physician regarding dabigatran versus warfarin in AF, proved understandable, comprehensive and helpful.

UI  - 24093846
TI  - Dual antiplatelet therapy versus oral anticoagulation plus dual antiplatelet therapy in patients with atrial fibrillation and low-to-moderate thromboembolic risk undergoing coronary stenting: design of the MUSICA-2 randomized trial.
AB  - The MUSICA-2 will attempt to determine the most effective and safe treatment in patients with nonvalvular AF and CHADS2 score 2 after PCI-S. Restricting TT for AF patients at high risk for stroke may reduce the incidence of bleeding without increasing the risk of thromboembolic complications.

UI  - 24084680
TI  - Management of atrial fibrillation in seven European countries after the publication of the 2010 ESC Guidelines on atrial fibrillation: primary results of the PREvention oF thromboemolic events--European Registry in Atrial Fibrillation (PREFER in AF).
AB  - The management of AF patients in 2012 has adapted to recent evidence and guideline recommendations. Oral anticoagulant therapy with VKA (majority) or NOACs is given to over 80% of eligible patients, including those at risk for bleeding. Rate is often adequately controlled, and rhythm control therapy is widely used.

UI  - 24081972
TI  - Management and outcomes of major bleeding during treatment with dabigatran or warfarin.
AB  - http://www.ClinicalTrials.gov. Unique identifiers: NCT00262600, NCT00291330, NCT00680186, NCT00329238 and NCT00558259.

UI  - 24076487
TI  - The effect of dabigatran plasma concentrations and patient characteristics on the frequency of ischemic stroke and major bleeding in atrial fibrillation patients: the RE-LY Trial (Randomized Evaluation of Long-Term Anticoagulation Therapy).
AB  - Ischemic stroke and bleeding outcomes were correlated with dabigatran plasma concentrations. Age was the most important covariate. Individual benefit-risk might be improved by tailoring dabigatran dose after considering selected patient characteristics. (Randomized Evaluation of Long Term Anticoagulant Therapy [RE-LY] With Dabigatran Etexilate; NCT00262600).

UI  - 24063919
TI  - Digoxin use is associated with increased risk of stroke in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation--a nationwide population-based cohort study.
AB  - 

UI  - 24055845
TI  - High-sensitivity troponin T and risk stratification in patients with atrial fibrillation during treatment with apixaban or warfarin.
AB  - Levels of hs-TnT are often elevated in patients with AF. The hs-TnT level is independently associated with an increased risk of stroke, cardiac death, and major bleeding and improves risk stratification beyond the CHA2DS2VASc risk score. The benefits of apixaban as compared with warfarin are consistent regardless of the hs-TnT level. (Apixaban for the Prevention of Stroke in Subjects With Atrial Fibrillation [ARISTOTLE]; NCT00412984).

UI  - 24054956
TI  - Rate-control versus rhythm-control strategies and outcomes in septuagenarians with atrial fibrillation.
AB  - In septuagenarian patients with atrial fibrillation, compared with rhythm-control, a rate-control strategy was associated with significantly lower mortality and hospitalization.

UI  - 24054537
TI  - Ischemic stroke in patients with atrial fibrillation receiving oral anticoagulation.
AB  - A substantial proportion of patients with atrial fibrillation who have an ischemic stroke are already receiving oral anticoagulation. Sub-optimal levels of anticoagulation and additional etiologies explain, only in part, this failure. Further research is needed to help find adequate therapeutic strategies in atrial fibrillation patients who sustain an ischemic stroke while receiving oral anticoagulation.

UI  - 24048467
TI  - Comparison of the CHADS2, CHA2DS2-VASc and HAS-BLED scores for the prediction of clinically relevant bleeding in anticoagulated patients with atrial fibrillation: the AMADEUS trial.
AB  - Many of the risk factors for stroke in atrial fibrillation (AF) are also important risk factors for bleeding. Wetested the hypothesis that the CHADS2 and CHA2DS2-VASc scores (used for stroke risk assessment) could be used to predict serious bleeding, and that these scores would compare well against the HAS-BLED score, which is a specific risk score designed for bleeding risk assessment. From the AMADEUS trial, we focused on the trial's primary safety outcome for serious bleeding, which was "any clinically relevant bleeding". The predictive value of HAS-BLED/CHADS2/CHA2DS2-VASc were compared by area under the curve (AUC, a measure of the c-index) and the Net Reclassification Improvement (NRI). Of 2,293 patients on VKA, 251 (11%) experienced at least one episode of "any clinically relevant bleeding" during an average 429 days follow up period. Incidence of "any clinically relevant bleeding" rose with increasing HAS-BLED/CHADS2/CHA2DS2-VASc scores, but was statistically significant only for HAS-BLED (p<0.0001). Only HAS-BLED demonstrated significant discriminatory performance for "any clinically relevant bleeding" (AUC 0.60, p<0.0001). There were significant AUC-differences between HAS-BLED (which had the highest AUC) and both CHADS2 (p<0.001) and CHA2DS2VASc (p=0.001). The HAS-BLED score also demonstrated significant NRI for the outcome of "any clinically relevant bleeding" when compared with CHADS2 (p=0.001) and CHA2DS2-VASc (p=0.04). In conclusion, the HAS-BLED score demonstrated significant discriminatory performance for "any clinically relevant bleeding" in anticoagulated patients with AF, whilst the CHADS2 and CHA2DS2-VASc scores did not. Bleeding risk assessment should be made using a specific bleeding risk score such as HAS-BLED, and the stroke risk scores such as CHADS2 or CHA2DS2-VASc scores should not be used.

UI  - 24036605
TI  - Initial human feasibility of infusion needle catheter ablation for refractory ventricular tachycardia.
AB  - Intramyocardial infusion-needle catheter ablation is feasible and permits control of some VTs that have been refractory to conventional catheter ablation therapy, warranting further study.

UI  - 24032427
TI  - Effects of adrenaline on rhythm transitions in out-of-hospital cardiac arrest.
AB  - Patients who received adrenaline had more rhythm transitions from ROSC and non-shockable rhythms to VF/VT.

UI  - 24016511
TI  - Predictors of discordance between physicians' and patients' appraisals of health-related quality of life in atrial fibrillation patients: findings from the Angiotensin II Antagonist in Paroxysmal Atrial Fibrillation Trial.
AB  - In patients with AF, even in the absence of significant concomitant cardiac diseases, depression, followed by sleeping disorder and physical inactivity, was significantly associated with discordance. These findings should be considered by physicians when choosing treatment strategies.

UI  - 24016507
TI  - Documentation of study medication dispensing in a prospective large randomized clinical trial: experiences from the ARISTOTLE Trial.
AB  - Rates of medication dispensing error were low and balanced between treatment groups. The initially reported dispensing error rate was the result of data recording and data management errors and not true medication dispensing errors. These analyses confirm the previously reported results of ARISTOTLE.

UI  - 24016506
TI  - Apixaban versus warfarin in patients with atrial fibrillation according to prior warfarin use: results from the Apixaban for Reduction in Stroke and Other Thromboembolic Events in Atrial Fibrillation trial.
AB  - The treatment effects of apixaban (vs warfarin) were not modified by VKA naivety. The rates of stroke/systemic embolism and major bleeding were numerically lower among the patients assigned to apixaban, irrespective of prior VKA use.

UI  - 24016492
TI  - Improving outcomes in patients with atrial fibrillation: rationale and design of the Early treatment of Atrial fibrillation for Stroke prevention Trial.
AB  - EAST will determine whether rhythm control therapy, when applied early after the initial diagnosis of AF, can prevent cardiovascular complications associated with AF.

UI  - 24016454
TI  - Causes of death and influencing factors in patients with atrial fibrillation: a competing-risk analysis from the randomized evaluation of long-term anticoagulant therapy study.
AB  - http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00262600.

UI  - 24009027
TI  - Development of a novel composite stroke and bleeding risk score in patients with atrial fibrillation: the AMADEUS Study.
AB  - We have developed and validated two novel composite scores for stroke/thromboembolism/bleeding that offer good discriminatory and predictive performance. However, these composite risk scores did not perform better than the easier and more practical "traditional" stroke and bleeding risk scores that are currently in use, which allow greater practicality and a more personalized balancing of risks.

UI  - 23993727
TI  - Myocardial fibrosis and QTc are reduced following treatment with spironolactone or amiloride in stroke survivors: a randomised placebo-controlled cross-over trial.
AB  - Procollagen-1-carboxy terminal peptide was reduced following treatment with spironolactone within a month. Further, this is the first study demonstrating amiloride could also improve myocardial fibrosis. The beneficial effects of both drugs on myocardial fibrosis, coupled with their effects on raising potassium translated to a shortening of QTc. Future studies should test the hypothesis that these drugs might reduce the risk of sudden cardiac death in stroke survivors.

UI  - 23993125
TI  - Efficacy of antiarrhythmic drugs in adults with congenital heart disease and supraventricular tachycardias.
AB  - Supraventricular tachycardias (SVTs) are a major cause of morbidity in adults with congenital heart disease (CHD). Few data exist on safety and efficacy of antiarrhythmic drugs in this population. Our aim was to determine the efficacy of antiarrhythmic drugs in adults with CHD and first-onset SVT on maintaining sinus rhythm after conversion. This was a multicenter retrospective study including adults with CHD and first-onset SVT from January 2008 to January 2011. First-onset SVT occurred in 92 of 7,171 patients without previous SVT (mean age 51  16 years, 57% women). SVTs included atrial fibrillation and flutter in >80% of the patients. Most of these patients had septal defects (50%) and left-sided lesions (21%). The acute management of SVTs resulted in sinus rhythm in 83 patients, and 89% of these patients were instituted on oral antiarrhythmics to prevent SVT recurrence. After a mean follow-up of 2.5  1.4 years, only 45% of the patients were free from SVT. Class III antiarrhythmics (85% sotalol and 15% amiodarone) were associated with a significantly lesser risk of SVT recurrence compared with all other antiarrhythmic drugs (hazard ratio 0.5, 95% confidence interval 0.27 to 0.96, p = 0.036). However, adverse effects of medication occurred in 22% of the patients, mainly in patients taking amiodarone. In conclusion, in adults with CHD and first-onset SVTs, class III antiarrhythmics are more efficacious in maintaining sinus rhythm after cardioversion than other antiarrhythmics. Sotalol may be considered as the first-choice therapy as this is associated with fewer adverse effects than amiodarone.

UI  - 23991661
TI  - Dabigatran versus warfarin in patients with mechanical heart valves.
AB  - The use of dabigatran in patients with mechanical heart valves was associated with increased rates of thromboembolic and bleeding complications, as compared with warfarin, thus showing no benefit and an excess risk. (Funded by Boehringer Ingelheim; ClinicalTrials.gov numbers, NCT01452347 and NCT01505881.).

UI  - 23978222
TI  - A double-blind placebo-controlled cross-over study of the vascular effects of midodrine in neuropathic compared with hyperadrenergic postural tachycardia syndrome.
AB  - POTS (postural tachycardia syndrome) is a chronic form of OI (orthostatic intolerance). Neuropathic POTS is characterized by decreased adrenergic vasoconstriction, whereas hyperadrenergic POTS exhibits increased adrenergic vasoconstriction. We hypothesized that midodrine, an 1-adrenergic receptor agonist, would increase CVR (calf vascular resistance), decrease C(v) (calf venous capacitance) and decrease orthostatic tachycardia in neuropathic POTS, but not alter haemodynamics in hyperadrenergic POTS. A total of 20 POTS patients (12 neuropathic and eight hyperadrenergic), ages 12-20 years, participated in this randomized placebo-controlled double-blind cross-over study. Of these subjects, 15 were female. POTS subjects received 2 weeks of treatment with midodrine or placebo, with increased dosing from 2.5 to 10 mg three times daily. Following a 7-day drug-washout period, subjects received the cross-over treatment. HR (heart rate), MAP (mean arterial pressure), Q(calf) (calf blood flow) and CVR were measured supine and during 35 HUT (head-up tilt). C(v) was measured supine. In neuropathic POTS, midodrine decreased supine HR, Q(calf) and C(v), while increasing MAP and CVR compared with placebo. During HUT, in neuropathic POTS, midodrine decreased HR, Q(calf) and C(v), while increasing MAP and CVR. In hyperadrenergic POTS, placebo and midodrine both decreased upright HR and increased supine CVR. Placebo also increased supine C(v), compared with midodrine in hyperadrenergic POTS. Therefore midodrine improved postural tachycardia in neuropathic POTS by increasing CVR and decreasing Q(calf) and C(v), whereas these effects were not seen in hyperadrenergic POTS patients who experienced a placebo effect. This suggests that midodrine is probably an effective treatment for neuropathic POTS, but not for hyperadrenergic POTS.

UI  - 23966309
TI  - Renal function and outcomes in anticoagulated patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation: the AMADEUS trial.
AB  - Renal impairment (CrCl <60 mL/min) doubles the risk of stroke and increased the risk of major bleeding by almost 60% in anticoagulated patients with AF. Renal impairment was additive to stroke risk prediction scores based on a significant NRI, but no significant improvement in discrimination ability (based on c-indexes) for CHA2DS2VASc or CHADS2 was observed.

UI  - 23954267
TI  - Flecainide therapy suppresses exercise-induced ventricular arrhythmias in patients with CASQ2-associated catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia.
AB  - Flecainide can completely prevent ventricular arrhythmia during exercise and partially prevent recurrent ICD shocks in high-risk patients with CPVT2.

UI  - 23945031
TI  - The clinical evaluation of International Normalized Ratio variability and control in conventional oral anticoagulant administration by use of the variance growth rate.
AB  - Patients with unstable anticoagulation have a significantly increased risk of 'clinical events' at 3 and 6months before an event. The VGR can be incorporated into computer-dosage programs, and may offer additional safety when oral anticoagulation is monitored.

UI  - 23943094
TI  - Factors associated with undertreatment of atrial fibrillation in geriatric outpatients with Alzheimer disease.
AB  - Despite the national and international recommendations, nearly half of AD patients with AF do not receive OACs or APAs. A history of cardiovascular disease-in particular, hypertension-improves access to treatment, but use of NSAIDs and living alone without home care seem to be the main factors associated with non-prescription of OACs or APAs.

UI  - 23941163
TI  - Warfarin use in hemodialysis patients with atrial fibrillation: decisions based on uncertainty.
AB  - A randomized controlled trial of warfarin use in hemodialysis patients with atrial fibrillation would clarify the risks and benefits of warfarin use in this population.

UI  - 23875908
TI  - Ibutilide increases the variability and complexity of atrial fibrillation electrograms: antiarrhythmic insights using signal analyses.
AB  - Novel EGM signal analysis techniques reveal that ibutilide administration causes increased complexity in the atrial electrical activation pattern with decreasing rate. These findings may be explained by the progressive destabilization of higher frequency, more homogeneous primary drivers of AF over the course of ibutilide administration, and/or less uniform propagation of atrial activation, until AF maintenance becomes more difficult and either transforms to atrial tachycardia or terminates to SR.

UI  - 23870607
TI  - Mixed treatment comparison meta-analysis of aspirin, warfarin, and new anticoagulants for stroke prevention in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation.
AB  - This mixed treatment comparison meta-analysis found similarity between warfarin and the new anticoagulants with the exception of one comparison, in which warfarin was associated with more non-major bleeding than apixaban. Thus, the new anticoagulants are therapeutically comparable when warfarin is inappropriate.

UI  - 23858023
TI  - Inappropriate use of antiarrhythmic drugs in paroxysmal and persistent atrial fibrillation in a large contemporary international survey: insights from RealiseAF.
AB  - The use of AADs for persistent or paroxysmal AF in this large contemporary international survey showed some deviations from international guidelines. The highest discordance came with the use of amiodarone in first line. Clearly, there is a large discrepancy between published guidelines and current practice.

UI  - 23843099
TI  - Dabigatran compared with warfarin in patients with atrial fibrillation and symptomatic heart failure: a subgroup analysis of the RE-LY trial.
AB  - The overall benefits of dabigatran for stroke/SE prevention, and major and intracranial bleeding, relative to warfarin in the RE-LY trial were consistent in patients with and without HF.

UI  - 23818039
TI  - The effectiveness and safety of landiolol hydrochloride, an ultra-short-acting 1-blocker, in postoperative patients with supraventricular tachyarrhythmias: a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study.
AB  - Landiolol hydrochloride is effective and safe for patients with postoperative SVT.

UI  - 23815891
TI  - Improving stroke prevention in patients with atrial fibrillation.
AB  - This trial is registered with the Dutch Trial Register under registration number 3570.

UI  - 23774941
TI  - An acenocoumarol dose algorithm based on a South-Eastern European population.
AB  - We have developed and validated an accurate algorithm for prediction of the stable therapeutic dose of acenocoumarol in a Romania population.

UI  - 23770747
TI  - The Long-Term Multicenter Observational Study of Dabigatran Treatment in Patients With Atrial Fibrillation (RELY-ABLE) Study.
AB  - During 2.3 years of continued treatment with dabigatran after RE-LY, there was a higher rate of major bleeding with dabigatran 150 mg twice daily in comparison with 110 mg, and similar rates of stroke and death.

UI  - 23770182
TI  - Balancing the benefits and risks of 2 doses of dabigatran compared with warfarin in atrial fibrillation.
AB  - On a group level both doses of dabigatran as compared with warfarin have similar benefits when considering a weighted estimate including both efficacy and safety. The similar overall benefits of the 2 doses of dabigatran versus warfarin support individualizing the dose based on patient characteristics and physician and patient preferences. (Randomized Evaluation of Long Term Anticoagulant Therapy [RE-LY] With Dabigatran Etexilate; NCT00262600).

UI  - 23765437
TI  - The management of patients with atrial fibrillation undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention with stent implantation: in-hospital-data from the Atrial Fibrillation undergoing Coronary Artery Stenting study.
AB  - Current recommendations on the management of patients with atrial fibrillation (AF) undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention with stent (PCI-S) essentially derive from small, single-center, retrospective datasets. To obtain larger and better quality data, we carried out the prospective, multicenter Atrial Fibrillation undergoing Coronary Artery Stenting (AFCAS) study. Therefore, consecutive patients with history of or ongoing AF undergoing PCI-S were enrolled, and occurrence of adverse ischemic and bleeding events recorded during 12 months follow-up. In this article, we report the in-hospital observations. Out of the 963 patients, in the majority of cases (49.1%) AF was permanent. The associated risk of stroke, as defined by a CHADS2 -score 2, was in 70% of patients moderate to high. Upon enrollment in the registry, 69.3% of patients were on VKA therapy. Overall occurrence of in-hospital major adverse cardiac events was 4.5% (cardiovascular death 1.9%, urgent revascularization in 1.5%, and stroke/arterial thromboembolism in 0.6%). Bleeding complications occurred in 7.1% of patients, being severe in 2.5%. In a logistic regression analysis, no risk factor was independently associated with bleeding events, whereas Clopidogrel treatment decreased and female gender/treatment with gpIIb/IIIa-antagonists, respectively increased the risk for the combined ischemic endpoint. The majority of AF patients undergoing PCI-S are at high stroke risk, and therefore VKA treatment should not be withdrawn and combined anticoagulant and antiplatelet treatment is warranted. Current management appears largely in accordance with current recommendations, whereby accounting for the limited occurrence of in-hospital adverse ischemic and bleeding events.

UI  - 23759473
TI  - Risks and benefits of anticoagulation in atrial fibrillation: insights from the Outcomes Registry for Better Informed Treatment of Atrial Fibrillation (ORBIT-AF) registry.
AB  - In community-based outpatients with AF, use of OAC was high and driven by not only predominantly stroke but also bleeding risk. Stroke risk significantly affects OAC use among those with low bleeding risk, whereas those with high bleeding risk demonstrate consistently lower use of OAC regardless of stroke risk.

UI  - 23759472
TI  - End of study transition from study drug to open-label vitamin K antagonist therapy: the ROCKET AF experience.
AB  - The excess of events at EOS was likely because of a period of inadequate anticoagulation in rivaroxaban participants switched to vitamin K antagonist therapy. If transition from rivaroxaban to vitamin K antagonist is needed, timely monitoring and careful dosing should be used to ensure consistent and adequate anticoagulation.

UI  - 23759284
TI  - Lenient vs. strict rate control in patients with atrial fibrillation and heart failure: a post-hoc analysis of the RACE II study.
AB  - In patients with AF and heart failure with a predominantly preserved EF, the stringency of rate control seems to have no effect on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, symptoms, and quality of life.

UI  - 23748210
TI  - Progression of atrial fibrillation after a failed initial ablation procedure in patients with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation: a randomized comparison of drug therapy versus reablation.
AB  - URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT01709682.

UI  - 23743976
TI  - Dabigatran versus warfarin: effects on ischemic and hemorrhagic strokes and bleeding in Asians and non-Asians with atrial fibrillation.
AB  - http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00262600.

UI  - 23739532
TI  - Chronic amiodarone therapy impairs the function of the superior sinoatrial node in patients with atrial fibrillation.
AB  - In a quarter of the AF patients, amiodarone causes superior SAN dysfunction, which results in a downward shift of the EAS and reduced P-wave amplitude in leads II, III and aVF at baseline and during isoproterenol infusion.

UI  - 23734260
TI  - Women versus men with chronic atrial fibrillation: insights from the Standard versus Atrial Fibrillation spEcific managemenT studY (SAFETY).
AB  - Health care providers should be cognisant of gender-specific differences in an attempt to individualise and, hence, optimise the management of patients with chronic AF and reduce potential morbidity and mortality.

UI  - 23726175
TI  - Effectiveness of moxonidine to reduce atrial fibrillation burden in hypertensive patients.
AB  - There is substantial evidence that the autonomic system plays an important part in the pathogenesis of atrial fibrillation (AF). It appears that, although some patients have a preponderantly sympathetic or vagal overactivation leading to AF, a combined sympathovagal drive is most commonly responsible for AF triggering. The purpose of this hypothesis-generating study was to test whether moxonidine, a centrally acting sympathoinhibitory agent, on top of optimal antihypertensive treatment, can lead to a decrease in AF burden in hypertensive patients with paroxysmal AF. This was a prospective, double-blind, 1-group, crossover study. Hypertensive patients with paroxysmal AF sequentially received treatment with placebo and moxonidine for two 6-week periods, respectively. The change in AF burden (measured as minutes of AF per day in three 48-hour Holter recordings) between the 2 treatment periods was the primary outcome measure. Fifty-six patients (median age 63.5 years, 35 men) were included. During moxonidine treatment, AF burden was reduced from 28.0 min/day (interquartile range [IQR] 15.0 to 57.8) to 16.5 min/day (IQR 4.0 to 36.3; p <0.01). European Heart Rhythm Association symptom severity class decreased from a median of 2.0 (IQR 1.0 to 2.0) to 1.0 (IQR 1.0 to 2.0; p = 0.01). Systolic blood pressure levels were similar in the 2 treatment periods, whereas diastolic blood pressure was lower (p <0.01) during moxonidine treatment. The most frequent complaint was dry mouth (28.6%). No serious adverse events were recorded. In conclusion, treatment with moxonidine, a centrally acting sympathoinhibitory agent, results in reduction of AF burden and alleviation of AF-related symptoms in hypertensive patients with paroxysmal AF.

UI  - 23723250
TI  - Efficacy and safety of rivaroxaban in patients with heart failure and nonvalvular atrial fibrillation: insights from ROCKET AF.
AB  - Treatment-related outcomes were similar in patients with and without HF and across HF subgroups. These findings support the use of rivaroxaban as an alternative to warfarin in patients with atrial fibrillation and HF. Clinical Trial Registration- URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00403767.

UI  - 23713815
TI  - Stroke prevention in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation: new insight in selection of rhythm or rate control therapy and impact of mean platelet volume.
AB  - The aim of this study was to determine the impact of mean platelet volume (MPV) on the strategy for treatment of atrial fibrillation (AF) with respect to stroke prevention. MPV was analyzed in 265 patients with AF who were undergoing treatment using rhythm or rate control. The primary endpoint was ischemic stroke or a transient ischemic attack (TIA) event. Kaplan-Meier analysis revealed a significantly higher stroke rate in the rate control group compared to the rhythm control group. A significantly higher stroke rate was observed in the higher tertile MPV group (7.9 fL) compared to the lower tertile MPV group (<7.3 fL). When the MPV cut-off level was set to 7.85 fL using the receiver operating characteristic curve, the sensitivity was 80.0% and the specificity was 70.4% for differentiating between the group with stroke and the group without stroke. In the Cox proportional hazard analysis, after adjusting for sex, treatment strategy for AF, high MPV level, antithrombotic treatment, and high CHADS2 score, higher MPV, rate control strategy for treatment of AF, and high CHADS2 score were found to be independent predictors of stroke risk. In addition, patients with AF who were treated using rate control had high stroke risk with an MPV over 7.85 fL and high CHADS2 score. The results of this study demonstrate that the MPV and the rate control strategy for treatment of AF were predictive markers for stroke; its predictive power for stroke was independent of female sex and high CHADS2 score in patients with AF.

UI  - 23708863
TI  - Target international normalized ratio values for preventing thromboembolic and hemorrhagic events in Japanese patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation: results of the J-RHYTHM Registry.
AB  - An INR of 1.6-2.6 is safe and effective at preventing thromboembolic events in patients with NVAF, particularly patients aged 70 years. An INR of 2.6-2.99 is also effective, but associated with a slightly increased risk in major hemorrhage. (UMIN Clinical Trials Registry UMIN000001569)

UI  - 23704912
TI  - Risk profiles and antithrombotic treatment of patients newly diagnosed with atrial fibrillation at risk of stroke: perspectives from the international, observational, prospective GARFIELD registry.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov TRI08888.

UI  - 23684591
TI  - Decision making for oral anticoagulants in atrial fibrillation: the ATA-AF study.
AB  - Oral anticoagulants are more frequently used in CARD than in MED, plausibly due to greater complexity of MED patients. Stratification of thrombotic and hemorrhagic risk significantly drives the choice for VKA. However the fraction of patients in whom prescription or non-prescription is based on other individual characteristics is not negligible.

UI  - 23683967
TI  - [Patients' characteristics and clinical management of atrial fibrillation in primary healthcare in Spain: FIATE Study].
AB  - A high rate of patients with anticoagulant therapy in primary healthcare has been found in this research. INR control, however, remains suboptimal. Heart rate control is the most commonly used strategy. The decision about the anticoagulation should be based on the thromboembolic risk rather than in the arrhytmia type.

UI  - 23677730
TI  - The atrial fibrillation in Turkey: Epidemiologic Registry (AFTER).
AB  - These results suggest that stroke risk scores should be thoroughly heeded based on guidelines, and that anticoagulation must be applied according to their guidance.

UI  - 23672991
TI  - Thrombocytopenia in patients with atrial fibrillation on oral anticoagulation undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention.
AB  - Thrombocytopenia is often regarded as a risk factor for bleeding complications in patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). The risk of mild to moderate baseline and acquired thrombocytopenia on bleeding and thrombotic or thromboembolic complications in patients with atrial fibrillation on oral anticoagulation therapy undergoing PCI, however, remains largely unknown. Management of Patients With Atrial Fibrillation undergoing Coronary Artery Stenting is a multicenter European prospective registry enrolling patients with atrial fibrillation undergoing PCI. We assessed the rate of bleeding complications as defined by Bleeding Academic Research Consortium and a composite of major adverse cardiac and cerebrovascular events (MACCE) including all-cause mortality, myocardial infarction, transient ischemic attack or stroke, stent thrombosis, systemic arterial embolism, or revascularization; and a composite of any harmful event (Bleeding Academic Research Consortium and MACCE) at 12-month follow-up in 861 consecutive patients undergoing PCI. Patients were divided into those with mild to moderate baseline thrombocytopenia (platelet count <150  10/L; n = 99) and control group (platelet count >150  10/L; n = 762). At hospital discharge, thrombocytopenia had no effect on prescribed antithrombotic treatment, and triple therapy (vitamin K antagonist + aspirin + clopidogrel) was the most common combination in both patient groups (69% vs 73%, p = 0.40). No differences in all-cause mortality (12% vs 11%, p = 0.79), MACCE (23% vs 22%, p = 0.87), or bleeding complications (23% vs 19%, p = 0.26) were detected. Acquired in-hospital thrombocytopenia occurred in 9.7% of patients, and it was associated with similar risk of adverse outcomes compared with control group. In conclusion, mild to moderate baseline thrombocytopenia does not seem to have a clinically significant effect on bleeding or thrombotic or thromboembolic complications after PCI in these frail patients receiving multiple antithrombotic drugs.

UI  - 23667268
TI  - Efficacy of implantable cardioverter defibrillators in young patients with catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia: success depends on substrate.
AB  - ICD efficacy in catecholaminergic polymorphic VT depends on arrhythmia mechanism. Episodes of ventricular fibrillation were uniformly successfully treated, whereas polymorphic and bidirectional VT did not demonstrate successful primary termination. Inappropriate shocks, electrical storm, and ICD complications were common.

UI  - 23666576
TI  - Contributing factors to the apparent clearance of bepridil in patients with paroxysmal or persistent atrial fibrillation: analysis using population pharmacokinetics.
AB  - Using population PK methodology, this study showed that age was a contributing factor to the apparent clearance of bepridil in Japanese patients with AF and that excessive QT prolongation might be related to a larger AUC.

UI  - 23661513
TI  - Non-valvular atrial fibrillation in the elderly; preliminary results from the National AFTER (Atrial Fibrillation in Turkey: Epidemiologic Registry) Study.
AB  - The rate of anticoagulant use in the elderly with AF was 37% and considering the reason of this situation was the medication not being prescribed by the physician, one should pay more attention particularly in the field of treatment.

UI  - 23648081
TI  - Intravenous flurbiprofen axetil can stabilize the hemodynamic instability due to mesenteric traction syndrome--evaluation with continuous measurement of the systemic vascular resistance index using a FloTrac sensor.
AB  - Intravenous flurbiprofen axetil can stabilize the hemodynamic instability due to MTS.

UI  - 23640971
TI  - Efficacy and safety of apixaban compared with warfarin at different levels of predicted international normalized ratio control for stroke prevention in atrial fibrillation.
AB  - The benefits of apixaban compared with warfarin for stroke or systemic embolism, bleeding, and mortality appear similar across the range of centers' and patients' predicted quality of international normalized ratio control.

UI  - 23640245
TI  - Amiodarone monitoring practices in pediatric hospitals in the United States.
AB  - Laboratory monitoring of amiodarone therapy is recommended due to the high incidence of adverse events associated with the drug. The use of appropriate monitoring is unknown at pediatric hospitals. The Pediatric Health Information System database was queried during a 5-year period for all patients who received amiodarone while hospitalized. Use of thyroid function testing, hepatic function testing, electrocardiogram, pulmonary function testing, and chest X-ray for patients was identified. Incidence of individual monitoring tests and complete monitoring profile was identified and compared across patient demographic and clinical factors and pediatric hospital. A total of 1,703 patients met the study criteria, and the incidence of complete amiodarone monitoring for all patients was 7.6 %. The least common monitoring test performed was triiodothyronine at 19.4 %, and the most common was electrocardiogram at 89.7 %. Critically ill patients and neonates were more likely to have amiodarone monitoring. Considerable variation in monitoring practices between pediatric hospitals was identified. Monitoring of amiodarone therapy in patients admitted to pediatric hospitals is low. Future efforts to standardize care are warranted.

UI  - 23623647
TI  - Cost-effectiveness of dronedarone in patients with atrial fibrillation in the ATHENA trial.
AB  - Compared with generally accepted thresholds, our results indicate that treatment with dronedarone as in ATHENA is cost-effective.

UI  - 23617744
TI  - An international longitudinal registry of patients with atrial fibrillation at risk of stroke (GARFIELD): the UK protocol.
AB  - ClinicalTrial.gov: NCT01090362.

UI  - 23436662
TI  - Assessment of baseline characteristics and risk factors among Emergency Department patients presenting with recent onset atrial fibrillation: a retrospective cohort study.
AB  - The present study represents an important snapshot of demographics, comorbidities, risk factors and anticoagulation management about patients with recent onset AF. Disparities were noted in anticoagulation management, suggesting that this is still a main problem among patients with AF.

UI  - 23611172
TI  - Heart rate-reducing effects of bisoprolol in Japanese patients with chronic atrial fibrillation: results of the MAIN-AF study.
AB  - This is the first quantitative analysis of -blocker monotherapy in AF patients. Bisoprolol exhibits a dose-responsive HR reduction when administered at sequential doses of 2.5mg/day and 5mg/day.

UI  - 23608592
TI  - Ganglionated plexus ablation vs linear ablation in patients undergoing pulmonary vein isolation for persistent/long-standing persistent atrial fibrillation: a randomized comparison.
AB  - PVI+GP ablation confers superior clinical results with less ablation-related left atrial flutter and reduced AF recurrence compared to PVI+LL ablation at 3 years of follow-up.

UI  - 23595086
TI  - Genetic background of catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia in Japan.
AB  - Thirty gene mutation carriers were found for 3 genes in 50 probands clinically diagnosed as having CPVT. The penetrance of CPVT phenotype was significantly higher in RYR2 mutation carriers, thus RYR2 gene screening in CPVT patients would be indispensable to prevent unexpected cardiac sudden death of young family members.

UI  - 23592708
TI  - Lack of evidence of increased mortality among patients with atrial fibrillation taking digoxin: findings from post hoc propensity-matched analysis of the AFFIRM trial.
AB  - In patients with paroxysmal and persistent AF, we found no evidence of increased mortality or hospitalization in those taking digoxin as baseline initial therapy.

UI  - 23586654
TI  - Thromboembolic event rate in paroxysmal and persistent atrial fibrillation: data from the GISSI-AF trial.
AB  - NCT00376272.

UI  - 23585009
TI  - [Efficacy and safety of ibutilide for conversion of atrial fibrillation/flutter].
AB  - Intravenous ibutilide is a safe and effective agent for cardioversion of recent-onset AF/AFL. Furthermore,strict processing under electrocardio-monitoring is important.

UI  - 23563134
TI  - N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide for risk assessment in patients with atrial fibrillation: insights from the ARISTOTLE Trial (Apixaban for the Prevention of Stroke in Subjects With Atrial Fibrillation).
AB  - NT-proBNP levels are often elevated in AF and independently associated with an increased risk of stroke and mortality. NT-proBNP improves risk stratification beyond the CHA2DS2VASc score and might be a novel tool for improved stroke prediction in AF. The efficacy of apixaban compared with warfarin is independent of the NT-proBNP level. (Apixaban for the Prevention of Stroke in Subjects With Atrial Fibrillation [ARISTOTLE]; NCT00412984).

UI  - 23557609
TI  - Quality of anticoagulation with warfarin across Kuwait.
AB  - The quality of anticoagulation with warfarin in non-selected daily practice in Kuwait is poor. This could have serious implications for patients' outcomes.

UI  - 23551460
TI  - Long-term efficacy and safety of two different rhythm control strategies in elderly patients with symptomatic persistent atrial fibrillation.
AB  - In elderly persistent AF patients, catheter ablation is more effective in maintaining SR and in improving QoL than AAD but is affected by a higher risk of embolic complications, particularly in patients with previous TIA/stroke. Over time, Group A patients more likely discontinued AAD with a reduction of long-term adverse events.

UI  - 23549489
TI  - In-hospital management and outcome of patients on warfarin undergoing coronary stent implantation: results of the multicenter, prospective WARfarin and coronary STENTing (WAR-STENT) registry.
AB  - The in-hospital management of patients on warfarin undergoing coronary stent implantation (PCI-S) is variable, and the in-hospital outcome incompletely defined. To determine the adherence to the current recommendations, and the incidence of adverse events, we carried out the prospective, multicenter, observational WARfarin and coronary STENTing (WAR-STENT) registry (ClinicalTrials.gov identifier NCT00722319). All consecutive patients on warfarin undergoing PCI-S at 37 Italian centers were enrolled and followed for 12 months. Outcome measures were: major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE), including cardiovascular death, non-fatal myocardial infarction, need for urgent revascularization, stroke, and venous thromboembolism, and major and minor bleeding. In this paper, we report the in-hospital findings. Out of the 411 patients enrolled, 92% were at non-low (ie, moderate or high) thromboembolic risk. The radial approach and bare-metal stents were used in 61% and 60% of cases, respectively. Drug-eluting stents were essentially reserved to patients with diabetes, which in turn, significantly predicted the implantation of drug-eluting stents (odds ratio [OR], 2.02; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.29-3.17; P=.002). The in-hospital MACE and major bleeding rates were 2.7% and 2.1%, respectively. At discharge, triple therapy (TT) of warfarin, aspirin, and clopidogrel was prescribed to 76% of patients. Prescription of TT was significantly more frequent in the non-low thromboembolic risk group. Non-low thromboembolic risk, in turn, was a significant predictor of TT prescription (OR, 11.2; 95% CI, 4.83-26.3; P<.0001). In conclusion, real-world warfarin patients undergoing PCI-S are largely managed according to the current recommendations. As a consequence, the risk of in-hospital MACE and major bleedings appears limited and acceptable.

UI  - 23548422
TI  - [State of the structure and functions of the arterial wall in patients with chronic heart failure against the background of permanent atrial fibrillation and assessment of vasoprotective effect of omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids].
AB  - structurally functional remodeling of the arterial wall in patients with chronic heart failure of ischemic etiology and persistent AF has a definite pattern of forming. Omega-3 fatty acids have a vasoprotective effect, providing improving elastic properties of the arteries by preventing fibrosis.

UI  - 23525418
TI  - Impact of global geographic region on time in therapeutic range on warfarin anticoagulant therapy: data from the ROCKET AF clinical trial.
AB  - URL: ClinicalTrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00403767.

UI  - 23510001
TI  - Long-term outcomes of ivabradine in inappropriate sinus tachycardia patients: appropriate efficacy or inappropriate patients.
AB  - IST patients treated with ivabradine showed both HR normalization and quality-of-life improvement maintained in the long-term follow-up. Stopping ivabradine after 1 year unexpectedly showed that HR remained in the normal limits in 80% of the patients.

UI  - 23505007
TI  - Heart rate decrease during crizotinib treatment and potential correlation to clinical response.
AB  - HR decrease is common during crizotinib treatment. It remains to be determined whether the correlation between HR decrease and clinical response to crizotinib reflects a biomarker of drug efficacy or a time/cumulative dose-dependent phenomenon.

UI  - 23502991
TI  - Urgent management of rapid heart rate in patients with atrial fibrillation/flutter and left ventricular dysfunction: comparison of the ultra-short-acting 1-selective blocker landiolol with digoxin (J-Land Study).
AB  - Landiolol was more effective for controlling rapid HR than digoxin in AF/AFL patients with LV dysfunction, and could be considered as a therapeutic option in this clinical setting.

UI  - 23500312
TI  - Cryoballoon ablation of pulmonary veins for paroxysmal atrial fibrillation: first results of the North American Arctic Front (STOP AF) pivotal trial.
AB  - The STOP AF trial demonstrated that cryoballoon ablation is a safe and effective alternative to antiarrhythmic medication for the treatment of patients with symptomatic paroxysmal AF, for whom at least one antiarrhythmic drug has failed, with risks within accepted standards for ablation therapy. (A Clinical Study of the Arctic Front Cryoablation Balloon for the Treatment of Paroxysmal Atrial Fibrillation [Stop AF]; NCT00523978).

UI  - 23500276
TI  - Quality of life assessment in the randomized PROTECT AF (Percutaneous Closure of the Left Atrial Appendage Versus Warfarin Therapy for Prevention of Stroke in Patients With Atrial Fibrillation) trial of patients at risk for stroke with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation.
AB  - Patients with nonvalvular AF at risk for stroke treated with left atrial appendage closure have favorable QOL changes at 12 months versus patients treated with warfarin. (WATCHMAN Left Atrial Appendage System for Embolic Protection in Patients With Atrial Fibrillation [WATCHMAN PROTECT]; NCT00129545).

UI  - 23499334
TI  - Bleeding complications associated with warfarin treatment in ischemic stroke patients with atrial fibrillation: a population-based cohort study.
AB  - Our findings indicate high lifetime bleeding risk associated with warfarin treatment for patients with ischemic stroke. Risk stratification scores are useful to identify patients at high risk of developing bleeding complications and should be recalculated at regular intervals to evaluate the bleeding risk in anticoagulated patients with ischemic stroke.

UI  - 23438932
TI  - Effect of nifedipine versus telmisartan on prevention of atrial fibrillation recurrence in hypertensive patients.
AB  - It is controversial whether angiotensin II receptor blockers provide better protection than calcium antagonists against atrial fibrillation (AF) recurrence in hypertensive patients. This study was designed to compare the effect of nifedipine- and telmisartan-based antihypertensive treatments for preventing AF recurrence in hypertensive patients with paroxysmal AF. A total of 149 hypertensive patients with paroxysmal AF were randomized to nifedipine- or telmisartan-based antihypertensive treatment groups. The target blood pressure (BP) was <130/80 mm Hg. Clinic BP, ECG, Holter monitoring, and echocardiography were followed up for 2 years. The primary end point was the incidence of overall and persistent AF recurrence. During follow-up, there was no statistical difference in the rate of patients lowering to target BP between both groups, whereas nifedipine group had slightly better BP control but similar heart rate control at 24 months. The incidence of AF recurrence was similar in both groups (nifedipine versus telmisartan: 58.7% versus 55.4%; P=0.742), and Kaplan-Meier analysis showed no significant difference in the freedom from AF recurrence (log-rank test; P=0.48). However, the rate of developing persistent AF in telmisartan group was lower than that in nifedipine group (5.4% versus 16.0%; P=0.035). Patients in telmisartan group had lower values of left atrial diameter, left atrial volume index, and left ventricular mass index at the end of follow-up. The effects of telmisartan in preventing AF recurrences in hypertensive patients with paroxysmal AF after intensive lowering BP is similar to that of nifedipine, but telmisartan has more potent effects on preventing progression to persistent AF.

UI  - 23438019
TI  - The efficacy of amiodarone-propranolol combination for the management of childhood arrhythmias.
AB  - Our results suggest that a combination of amiodarone and propranolol is an effective and safe option for the treatment of persistent arrhythmias in neonates and infants, and may serve as a bridge to ablation therapy in older children.

UI  - 23427280
TI  - Ranolazine enhances the antiarrhythmic activity of amiodarone by accelerating conversion of new-onset atrial fibrillation after cardiac surgery.
AB  - Ranolazine is a relatively novel antiischemic/antianginal compound with antiarrhythmic properties. We investigated its ability to shorten the time to conversion of postoperative atrial fibrillation (POAF) when added to amiodarone after coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery. In this prospective, randomized, allocation-concealed, single-blind, single-site clinical trial, we enrolled consecutive eligible patients who developed POAF after elective on-pump CABG surgery. Participants were randomized to receive either ranolazine 375 mg twice daily orally plus intravenous amiodarone (active group) or intravenous amiodarone alone (control group). We enrolled 41 patients; 20 in the active and 21 in the control group. There were no significant differences between the groups in terms of age, procedural duration, extracorporeal circulation time, and aortic cross-clamp time. Mean time of conversion was significantly shorter in the active group (19.9  3.2 vs 37.2  3.9 hours, P < .001), suggesting that compared to amiodarone alone, the ranolazine-amiodarone combination had a superior antiarrhythmic effect against POAF.

UI  - 23422653
TI  - Obesity, brain natriuretic peptide levels and mortality in patients hospitalized with heart failure and preserved left ventricular systolic function.
AB  - An inverse relationship between BMI and BNP levels exists in patients hospitalized with HFpLVF. Higher BMI is associated with lower mortality, whereas higher BNP levels predict higher mortality in male patients with HFpLVF. These findings should be confirmed in a larger multicenter setting.

UI  - 23410544
TI  - Rate control efficacy in permanent atrial fibrillation: successful and failed strict rate control against a background of lenient rate control: data from RACE II (Rate Control Efficacy in Permanent Atrial Fibrillation).
AB  - In patients with permanent AF, successful strict rate control does not improve outcome. Therefore, lenient rate control might be frontline therapy.

UI  - 23397554
TI  - Anticoagulation therapy for atrial fibrillation.
AB  - Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common significant cardiac rhythm disorder, and its prevalence is increasing worldwide. Atrial fibrillation confers a fivefold increased risk of stroke, and these strokes are associated with significant mortality and disability. The vitamin K antagonist, warfarin, has been the mainstay of anticoagulant therapy for patients with AF, reducing the risk of stroke by 65%. Despite its efficacy, warfarin remains underused in clinical practice because of its variable dose response, diet and medication interactions, and need for frequent monitoring. Stroke prevention in AF has entered an exciting therapeutic era with new classes of targeted anticoagulants that avoid the many pitfalls of the vitamin K antagonists. Dabigatran, an oral thrombin inhibitor, and the factor Xa inhibitors, rivaroxaban and apixaban, have demonstrated efficacy for stroke prevention and a reduced risk of intracranial hemorrhage relative to warfarin. Translating the efficacy of clinical trials into effective use of these novel agents in clinical practice will require an understanding of their pharmacokinetic profiles, dose selection, and management in select clinical situations.

UI  - 23391196
TI  - Outcomes of discontinuing rivaroxaban compared with warfarin in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation: analysis from the ROCKET AF trial (Rivaroxaban Once-Daily, Oral, Direct Factor Xa Inhibition Compared With Vitamin K Antagonism for Prevention of Stroke and Embolism Trial in Atrial Fibrillation).
AB  - In atrial fibrillation patients who temporarily or permanently discontinued anticoagulation, the risk of stroke or non-CNS embolism was similar with rivaroxaban or warfarin. An increased risk of stroke and non-CNS embolism was observed in rivaroxaban-treated patients compared with warfarin-treated patients after the end of the study, underscoring the importance of therapeutic anticoagulation coverage during such a transition.

UI  - 23390125
TI  - Modification of outcomes with aspirin or apixaban in relation to CHADS(2) and CHA(2)DS(2)-VASc scores in patients with atrial fibrillation: a secondary analysis of the AVERROES study.
AB  - In an atrial fibrillation population, apixaban was superior to aspirin for stroke prevention, with similar rates of major bleeding, in the presence of one or more stroke risk factors, with consistency of the treatment effect by CHADS(2)/CHA(2)DS(2)-VASc scores.

UI  - 23364608
TI  - Human electrophysiological and pharmacological properties of XEN-D0101: a novel atrial-selective Kv1.5/IKur inhibitor.
AB  - The human electrophysiological and pharmacological properties of XEN-D0101 were evaluated to assess its usefulness for treating atrial fibrillation (AF). XEN-D0101 inhibited Kv1.5 with an IC50 of 241 nM and is selective over non-target cardiac ion channels (IC50 Kv4.3, 4.2 M; hERG, 13 M; activated Nav1.5, >100 M; inactivated Nav1.5, 34 M; Kir3.1/3.4, 17 M; Kir2.1, >100 M). In atrial myocytes from patients in sinus rhythm (SR) and chronic AF, XEN-D0101 inhibited non-inactivating outward currents (Ilate) with IC50 of 410 and 280 nM, respectively, and peak outward currents (Ipeak) with IC50 of 806 and 240 nM, respectively. Whereas Ilate is mainly composed of IKur, Ipeak consists of IKur and Ito. Therefore, the effects on Ito alone were estimated from a double-pulse protocol where IKur was inactivated (3.5 M IC50 in SR and 1 M in AF). Thus, inhibition of Ipeak is because of IKur reduction and not Ito. XEN-D0101 significantly prolonged the atrial action potential duration at 20%, 50%, and 90% of repolarization (AF tissue only) and significantly elevated the atrial action potential plateau phase and increased contractility (SR and AF tissues) while having no effect on human ventricular action potentials. In healthy volunteers, XEN-D0101 did not significantly increase baseline- and placebo-adjusted QTc up to a maximum oral dose of 300 mg. XEN-D0101 is a Kv1.5/IKur inhibitor with an attractive atrial-selective profile.

UI  - 23348529
TI  - Catheter ablation of atrial fibrillation in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy: atrial fibrillation type determines the success rate.
AB  - Catheter ablation of AF in patients with HCM is an effective and safe therapeutic option, particularly in patients with paroxysmal AF. Effectiveness of ablation is significantly smaller in patients with persistent AF and even more so in those with long-persistent AF. Repeated procedures were often necessary. Continued antiarrhythmic drug therapy is often required due to a significant degree of atrial remodelling.

UI  - 23338943
TI  - Effects of dronedarone started rapidly after amiodarone discontinuation.
AB  - In this patient population, a switch from amiodarone to dronedarone within a 2-day time frame might be feasible in certain patient categories, but further investigation is warranted.

UI  - 23337693
TI  - Confirmation of model-based dose selection for a Japanese phase III study of rivaroxaban in non-valvular atrial fibrillation patients.
AB  - This study was designed to confirm the appropriateness of the dose setting for a Japanese phase III study of rivaroxaban in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation (NVAF), which had been based on model simulation employing phase II study data. The previously developed mixed-effects pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic (PK-PD) model, which consisted of an oral one-compartment model parameterized in terms of clearance, volume and a first-order absorption rate, was rebuilt and optimized using the data for 597 subjects from the Japanese phase III study, J-ROCKET AF. A mixed-effects modeling technique in NONMEM was used to quantify both unexplained inter-individual variability and inter-occasion variability, which are random effect parameters. The final PK and PK-PD models were evaluated to identify influential covariates. The empirical Bayes estimates of AUC and C(max) from the final PK model were consistent with the simulated results from the Japanese phase II study. There was no clear relationship between individual estimated exposures and safety-related events, and the estimated exposure levels were consistent with the global phase III data. Therefore, it was concluded that the dose selected for the phase III study with Japanese NVAF patients by means of model simulation employing phase II study data had been appropriate from the PK-PD perspective.

UI  - 23325525
TI  - Percutaneous left atrial appendage closure for stroke prophylaxis in patients with atrial fibrillation: 2.3-Year Follow-up of the PROTECT AF (Watchman Left Atrial Appendage System for Embolic Protection in Patients with Atrial Fibrillation) Trial.
AB  - : URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00129545.

UI  - 23313007
TI  - Temporal trends in medication use and outcomes in atrial fibrillation.
AB  - With increased anticoagulation use, stroke rates are declining and emergency room bleeding complications are increasing. Despite an increased use of evidence-based AF therapies, mortality remains high in this population. These findings highlight the need to focus on AF prevention in addition to minimizing its complications.

UI  - 23292793
TI  - Left atrial flow velocity distribution and flow coherence using four-dimensional FLOW MRI: a pilot study investigating the impact of age and Pre- and Postintervention atrial fibrillation on atrial hemodynamics.
AB  - Flow-sensitive MRI shows that patients with a history of AF had global hemodynamics in the LA similar to those of age-matched volunteers. Additional studies with larger cohorts of AF patients and correlation with outcome are needed to further investigate the potential of atrial 4D flow MRI to flow patterns indicative of stroke risk in AF.

UI  - 23253701
TI  - Anticoagulation therapy in Chinese patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation: a prospective, multi-center, randomized, controlled study.
AB  - In Chinese patients with NVAF, the warfarin therapy (INR 1.6 - 2.5) for the prevention of thromboembolic events was superior to aspirin.

UI  - 23240154
TI  - [Electrophysiological effects and antiarrhythmic activity of novel domestic class III antiarrhythmogenic drug niferidil administered in patients with paroxismal supraventricular tachycardia].
AB  - Intracardiac electrophysiological effects and antiarrhythmic activity of novel domestic class III antiarrhythmogenic drug niferidil has been studied in a group of 25 patients with paroxismal supraventricular tachycardia (PSVT) diagnosis. The drug was administered in a dose of 20 mg/kg (i.v.). Niferidil injections increased the refractory periods in both right and left atrium (by 22 and 20%, respectively, p < 0.001), right ventricle (12%, p < 0.01), and the His-Purkinje system (34%, p < 0.001) and improved additional anterograde and retrograde conduction (by 22 and 31%, respectively, p < 0.001), while not influencing the conduction via excitable cardiac tissues. Elongation of the QTc interval (22%, p <0.05) in one case was accompanied by an arrythmogenic effect (induction of short-term polymorphous ventricular tachycardia of the "torsade de pointes" type. Niferidil arrested PSVT in 78% cases and prevented PSVT development in response to endocardial stimulation in 86% of patients.

UI  - 23232844
TI  - Metoprolol vs. carvedilol or carvedilol plus N-acetyl cysteine on post-operative atrial fibrillation: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study.
AB  - Carvedilol plus NAC decreased POAF incidence and duration of hospitalization compared with metoprolol and decreased POAF incidence compared with carvedilol.

UI  - 23229461
TI  - Safety and efficacy of adjusted dose of rivaroxaban in Japanese patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation: subanalysis of J-ROCKET AF for patients with moderate renal impairment.
AB  - The safety and efficacy of rivaroxaban vs. warfarin were consistent in patients with moderate renal impairment and preserved renal function.

UI  - 23223178
TI  - Effect of bucindolol on heart failure outcomes and heart rate response in patients with reduced ejection fraction heart failure and atrial fibrillation.
AB  - In HFREF patients with AF, bucindolol was associated with reductions in composite HF endpoints in those who achieved a resting heart rate  80 b.p.m. and nominally in those with the (1)389-Arg homozygous genotype.

UI  - 23219385
TI  - Decrease of the atrial fibrillatory rate, increased organization of the atrial rhythm and termination of atrial fibrillation by AZD7009.
AB  - The AFR may potentially serve as a biomarker of electrophysiological effects in early evaluation of rhythm control agents.

UI  - 23218193
TI  - Dosage of statin, cardiovascular comorbidities, and risk of atrial fibrillation: a nationwide population-based cohort study.
AB  - Statin therapy reduces the risk of new-onset atrial fibrillation in a dose-dependent manner, and is beneficial in patients with cardiovascular co-morbidities.

UI  - 23212720
TI  - Renal dysfunction as a predictor of stroke and systemic embolism in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation: validation of the R(2)CHADS(2) index in the ROCKET AF (Rivaroxaban Once-daily, oral, direct factor Xa inhibition Compared with vitamin K antagonism for prevention of stroke and Embolism Trial in Atrial Fibrillation) and ATRIA (AnTicoagulation and Risk factors In Atrial fibrillation) study cohorts.
AB  - URL: http://www.ClinicalTrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00403767.

UI  - 23200268
TI  - The efficacy and safety of low intensity warfarin therapy in Chinese elderly atrial fibrillation patients with high CHADS2 risk score.
AB  - 

UI  - 23186806
TI  - Increased mortality among patients taking digoxin--analysis from the AFFIRM study.
AB  - Digoxin was associated with a significant increase in all-cause mortality in patients with AF after correcting for clinical characteristics and comorbidities, regardless of gender or of the presence or absence of HF. These findings call into question the widespread use of digoxin in patients with AF.

UI  - 23141847
TI  - Gender differences of bleeding and stroke risk in very old atrial fibrillation patients on VKA treatment: results of the EPICA study on the behalf of FCSA (Italian Federation of Anticoagulation Clinics).
AB  - Elderly patients with AF do not show clear gender related differences in the risk of major adverse events. However, elderly males showed a higher rate of bleeding complications, and females showed a slightly higher rate of stroke, thus suggesting the possibility of a higher net clinical benefit of anticoagulant treatment in females.

UI  - 23121681
TI  - A randomized controlled trial of dabigatran versus warfarin for periablation anticoagulation in patients undergoing ablation of atrial fibrillation.
AB  - An anticoagulation strategy with dabigatran may surpass that with warfarin in reducing both the periprocedural risk of minor bleeding and a hypercoagulable state, and the time to ablation in patients undergoing ablation of AF.

UI  - 23111138
TI  - Comparison of four single-drug regimens on ventricular rate and arrhythmia-related symptoms in patients with permanent atrial fibrillation.
AB  - Rate control of atrial fibrillation (AF) is a main treatment modality. However, data are scarce on the relative efficacy of calcium channel blockers and  blockers or between drugs within each class. The purpose of the present study was to compare the effect of 4 rate-reducing, once-daily drug regimens on the ventricular heart rate and arrhythmia-related symptoms in patients with permanent AF. We included 60 patients (mean age 71  9 years, 18 women) with permanent AF in an investigator-blind cross-over study. Diltiazem 360 mg/day, verapamil 240 mg/day, metoprolol 100 mg/day, and carvedilol 25 mg/day were administered for 3 weeks in a randomized sequence. The 24-hour heart rate was measured using Holter monitoring, and arrhythmia-related symptoms were assessed using the Symptom Checklist questionnaire before randomization and on the last day of each treatment period. The 24-hour mean heart rate was 96  12 beats/min at baseline (no treatment), 75  10 beats/min with diltiazem, 81  11 beats/min with verapamil, 82  11 beats/min with metoprolol, and 84  11 beats/min with carvedilol. All drugs reduced the heart rate compared to baseline (p <0.001 for all). The 24-hour heart rate was significantly lower with diltiazem than with any other drug tested (p <0.001 for all). Compared to baseline, diltiazem significantly reduced both the frequency (p <0.001) and the severity (p= 0.005) of symptoms. In contrast, verapamil reduced symptom frequency only (p=0.012). In conclusion, diltiazem 360 mg/day was the most effective drug regimen for reducing the heart rate in patients with permanent AF. Arrhythmia-related symptoms were reduced by treatment with the calcium channel blockers diltiazem and verapamil, but not by the  blockers.

UI  - 23107870
TI  - Carvedilol is effective and safe in combination with bepridil for persistent atrial fibrillation and decreases the QT prolongation induced by bepridil therapy.
AB  - The authors demonstrated that the combination therapy with carvedilol plus bepridil is more effective for maintaining SR than bepridil alone therapy and carvedilol reduced QT prolongation by bepridil therapy.

UI  - 23103906
TI  - Analysis of upper gastrointestinal adverse events among patients given dabigatran in the RE-LY trial.
AB  - Among patients given dabigatran for atrial fibrillation, NB-UGI AEs are generally mild or moderate; 4% stopped taking the drug over a median of 21.7 months. The greatest increase was in GERD-type NB-UGI AEs. These observations should guide management and prevention strategies.

UI  - 23101282
TI  - Effect of selective beta-blockade with bisoprolol in the treatment of recent-onset atrial fibrillation.
AB  - Early regularization of rhythm in patients with recent-onset atrial fibrillation reduces the likelihood of recurrent episodes of arrhythmia. This makes the application of selective beta-blockade clinically significant.

UI  - 23094720
TI  - Radiofrequency ablation as initial therapy in paroxysmal atrial fibrillation.
AB  - In comparing radiofrequency ablation with antiarrhythmic drug therapy as first-line treatment in patients with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation, we found no significant difference between the treatment groups in the cumulative burden of atrial fibrillation over a period of 2 years. (Funded by the Danish Heart Foundation and others; MANTRA-PAF ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00133211.).

UI  - 23078130
TI  - Ivabradine in the treatment of inappropriate sinus tachycardia in patients after successful radiofrequency catheter ablation of atrioventricular node slow pathway.
AB  - Ivabradine is an effective treatment option to reduce HR and symptoms in patients with IST after RF ablation of atrioventricular node slow pathway. The therapy with ivabradine is well tolerated even with maximum daily dose.

UI  - 23063241
TI  - Quality of anticoagulation with warfarin in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation in the community setting.
AB  - The QoA with warfarin, as assessed by TTR, in the current community setting remains suboptimal, and there has been little to no improvement in current clinical practices. TTR should be considered when assessing the recent comparative studies evaluating novel pharmacologic agents to warfarin for the treatment of AF. SUBJECT AREAS: Arrhythmias, preventive cardiology, anticoagulation, thromboembolism, cardiovascular disease risk factors.

UI  - 23058149
TI  - Optimal dose of adenosine effective for supraventricular tachycardia in children.
AB  - Adenosine is an effective medicine in treating SVT in children. A higher dose of 200 g/kg may be used as first bolus particularly in children with pre-excitation.

UI  - 23052711
TI  - Plasma proteomics of patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation on chronic anti-coagulation with warfarin or a direct factor Xa inhibitor.
AB  - Plasma proteins mediate thrombogenesis, inflammation, endocardial injury and structural remodelling in atrial fibrillation (AF). We hypothesised that anti-coagulation with rivaroxaban, a direct factor Xa inhibitor, would differentially modulate biologically-relevant plasma proteins, compared with warfarin, a multi-coagulation protein antagonist. We performed unbiased liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectroscopy and candidate multiplexed protein immunoassays among Japanese subjects with non-valvular chronic AF who were randomly assigned to treatment with 24 weeks of rivaroxaban (n=93) or warfarin (n=94). Nine metaproteins, including fibulin-1 (p=0.0033), vitronectin (p=0.0010), haemoglobin  (p=0.0012), apolipoproteins C-II (p=0.0017) and H (p=0.0023), complement C5 precursor (p=0.0026), coagulation factor XIIIA (p=0.0026) and XIIIB (p=0.0032) subunits, and 10 candidate proteins, including thrombomodulin (p=0.0004), intercellular adhesion molecule-3 (p=0.0064), interleukin-8 (p=0.0007) and matrix metalloproteinase-3 (p=0.0003), were differentially expressed among patients with and without known clinical risk factors for stroke and bleeding in AF. Compared with warfarin, rivaroxaban treatment was associated with a greater increase in thrombomodulin ( 0.1 vs. 0.3 pg/ml, p=0.0026) and a trend towards a reduction in matrix metalloproteinase-9 ( 2.2 vs. -4.9 pg/ml, p=0.0757) over 24 weeks. Only modest correlations were observed between protein levels and prothrombin time, factor Xa activity and prothrombinase-induced clotting time. Plasma proteomics can identify distinct functional patterns of protein expression that report on known stroke and bleeding risk phenotypes in an ethnically-homogeneous AF population. The greater upregulation of thrombomodulin among patients randomised to rivaroxaban represents a proof-of-principle that pharmacoproteomics can be employed to discern novel effects of factor Xa inhibition beyond standard pharmacodynamic measures.

UI  - 23041016
TI  - N-acetyl cysteine for the conversion of atrial fibrillation into sinus rhythm after cardiac surgery: a prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled pilot study.
AB  - 

UI  - 23040570
TI  - Colchicine for prevention of early atrial fibrillation recurrence after pulmonary vein isolation: a randomized controlled study.
AB  - Colchicine is an effective and safe treatment for prevention of early AF recurrences after pulmonary vein isolation in the absence of antiarrhythmic drug treatment. This effect seems to be associated strongly with a significant decrease in inflammatory mediators, including IL-6 and CRP.

UI  - 23033347
TI  - Bleeding during treatment with aspirin versus apixaban in patients with atrial fibrillation unsuitable for warfarin: the apixaban versus acetylsalicylic acid to prevent stroke in atrial fibrillation patients who have failed or are unsuitable for vitamin K antagonist treatment (AVERROES) trial.
AB  - Anatomic sites and predictors of bleeding are similar for apixaban and aspirin in these patients. Higher CHADS2 scores are associated with increasing rates of bleeding and stroke, but the balance between risks and benefits of apixaban compared with aspirin is favorable irrespective of baseline stroke risk. Clinical Trial Registration Information- www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT 00496769.

UI  - 23031290
TI  - Statins and atrial fibrillation in patients with left ventricular dysfunction: insights from the AF-CHF trial.
AB  - 

UI  - 23027801
TI  - Variation in warfarin dose adjustment practice is responsible for differences in the quality of anticoagulation control between centers and countries: an analysis of patients receiving warfarin in the randomized evaluation of long-term anticoagulation therapy (RE-LY) trial.
AB  - URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00262600.

UI  - 23018151
TI  - The CHA2DS2-VASc score identifies those patients with atrial fibrillation and a CHADS2 score of 1 who are unlikely to benefit from oral anticoagulant therapy.
AB  - The CHA(2)DS(2)-VASc score reclassifies 26% of patients with a CHADS(2) score of 1 to a low annual risk of SSE of 1%. This risk seems low enough to consider withholding anticoagulant treatment.

UI  - 22997994
TI  - Extensive antiarrhythmic drugs after catheter ablation of persistent atrial fibrillation.
AB  - While use of extensive AADs within the initial 2 months after persistent AF ablation decreases early ATa, it does not prevent late ATa. Moreover, LAD as well as early ATa is a strong predictor of ATa at 12 months.

UI  - 22995971
TI  - Relation of gender-specific risk of ischemic stroke in patients with atrial fibrillation to differences in warfarin anticoagulation control (from AFFIRM).
AB  - Warfarin decreases risk of stroke for patients with atrial fibrillation (AF) dependent on percent time in the therapeutic range (TTR) with an international normalized ratio (INR) of 2 to 3. We hypothesized that gender differences in ischemic stroke risk are related to TTR. From the AFFIRM database of 4,060 patients with AF, we determined the incidence of ischemic stroke by gender. We evaluated the INR at time of ischemic stroke and calculated TTR. We determined the relation between gender and ischemic stroke by TTR. Women had CHADS(2) Scores (3.7  1.3 vs 2.5  1.3, p <0.0001) and more ischemic strokes than men (5% vs 3%, odds ratio 1.6, 95% confidence interval 1.19 to 2.26, p = 0.002). Mean INR near time of ischemic stroke was 2 for women and men; median values were subtherapeutic (1.7 and 1.8, respectively). Women spent more time outside the therapeutic range (40  0.7% vs 37  0.5%, p = 0.0001), with more time below the therapeutic range (29  0.7% vs 26  0.5%, p = 0.0002). A higher TTR protected against ischemic stroke for women but not for men. Women who had a comparably high TTR (66%) still had more ischemic strokes (p = 0.009). A fitted Cox proportional hazard regression model showed that gender, TTR <46% versus >80%, age, and previous stroke were significantly related to stroke incidence. In conclusion, women in AFFIRM were at greater risk of ischemic stroke than men, in part related to differences in TTR. Women with AF may benefit from more aggressive or novel anticoagulation to decrease their risk of stroke.

UI  - 22982132
TI  - [Predictors of reversion to sinus rhythm previous to electrical cardioversion in patients with persistent atrial fibrillation treated with anti-arrhythmic drugs].
AB  - In patients with persistent atrial fibrillation treated with anti-arrhythmic drugs, lack of obesity, duration of atrial fibrillation < 1 year and the absence of structural heart disease are predictors of reversion to sinus rhythm before electrical cardioversion.

UI  - 22981555
TI  - Clinical efficacy of ivabradine in patients with inappropriate sinus tachycardia: a prospective, randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, crossover evaluation.
AB  - In this cohort, ivabradine significantly improved symptoms associated with inappropriate sinus tachycardia and completely eliminated them in approximately half of the patients. These findings suggest that ivabradine may be an important agent for improving symptoms in patients with inappropriate sinus tachycardia.

UI  - 22971501
TI  - Comparison of desflurane and sevoflurane anaesthesia in relation to the risk of vagally mediated reflex bradycardia during gastrectomy.
AB  - Clinically significant reflex bradycardia occurred with a relatively high frequency during gastrectomy. Although desflurane is associated with sympathetic activation, it did not provide a protective effect against vagally mediated reflex bradycardia during gastrectomy compared with sevoflurane.

UI  - 22967497
TI  - Clinical efficacy of antazoline in rapid cardioversion of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation--a protocol of a single center, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study (the AnPAF Study).
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT01527279.

UI  - 22958623
TI  - Heart rate control in patients with chronic atrial fibrillation and heart failure.
AB  - The goal of this study was to determine whether aggressive heart rate (HR) control in patients with both chronic atrial fibrillation (AF) and heart failure (HF) is associated with improved outcomes. HR control is one of the mainstays in management of patients with AF. However, rate control can be challenging in patients with HF. This study was designed as an interventional clinical trial, using patients with chronic AF and left ventricular systolic dysfunction with left ventricular ejection fraction 40% (n=20) as their own controls. Intervention consisted of increasing doses of metoprolol succinate to achieve target resting HR <70 beats per minute. Clinical data were collected at baseline and after intervention, with paired t test used to evaluate statistically significant change. After 3 months of intervention, average resting HR decreased from 9414 beats per minute to 8512 beats per minute. Average metoprolol succinate dose at the end of the study was 121 mg. None of the outcomes improved significantly after the intervention, including exercise tolerance (meters walked on 6-minute walk test 32683 vs 33086), quality of life (Minnesota Living With Heart Failure Questionnaire score of 42.519 vs 3821), and brain natriuretic peptide (242306 pg/mL vs 279395 pg/mL). Aggressive HR control was difficult in this group of patients with chronic AF and HF due to patient intolerance of increasing doses of -blockade, and not associated with improved outcomes. Further studies are needed to establish guidelines for target HR in patients with chronic AF who also have significant HF.

UI  - 22933567
TI  - Efficacy of apixaban when compared with warfarin in relation to renal function in patients with atrial fibrillation: insights from the ARISTOTLE trial.
AB  - In patients with AF, renal impairment was associated with increased risk of cardiovascular events and bleeding. When compared with warfarin, apixaban treatment reduced the rate of stroke, death, and major bleeding, regardless of renal function. Patients with impaired renal function seemed to have the greatest reduction in major bleeding with apixaban.

UI  - 22923275
TI  - Assessing the risk of bleeding in patients with atrial fibrillation: the Loire Valley Atrial Fibrillation project.
AB  - Current oral anticoagulation prescribing patterns would suggest that bleeding risk estimation by clinicians is poor and that oral anticoagulation prescribing does not reflect bleeding risk per se. The HAS-BLED score performs well in relation to predicting bleeding events compared with older bleeding scores and the Anticoagulation and Risk Factors in Atrial Fibrillation score, with significantly improved reclassification using HAS-BLED compared with all other bleeding risk scores tested.

UI  - 22917757
TI  - Computerised assistance for warfarin dosage--effects on treatment quality.
AB  - Computerised dosing assistance within the Swedish national quality registry AuriculA improves or maintains a high treatment quality with warfarin as measured by TTR.

UI  - 22903738
TI  - A multi-institutional analysis of inpatient treatment for supraventricular tachycardia in newborns and infants.
AB  - This study aimed to examine practice patterns in the inpatient medical treatment of newborns and infants with supraventricular tachycardia (SVT) using the Pediatric Health Information System (PHIS) database, a large, multi-institutional administrative database. A retrospective examination of pediatric hospital discharge data was performed during the study period from January 2003 to September 2008. Data were extracted from the index hospitalization of all individuals younger than 1 year with the principal discharge diagnosis of SVT. Those with coexisting congenital or acquired structural heart disease were excluded from the study. The analysis included 171 patients. No deaths occurred, and 95 % of the infants were discharged to home. More than half (53 %) of the patients spent a portion of their hospital stay in an intensive care unit (ICU) setting. Multidrug therapy was common, with 45 % of the patients receiving two or more antiarrhythmic agents on the day of discharge. The five most commonly used antiarrhythmic drugs, in order of decreasing frequency of use, were propranolol, digoxin, amiodarone, flecainide, and sotalol. The median hospital stay for the group was 4 days, and this value increased as a function of the number of antiarrhythmic drugs used (median, 7 days for three or more agents) and the need for intensive care (median, 6 days). The information provided in this study helps to define common practice patterns and should allow caregivers to provide meaningful expectations to families regarding their potential treatment course and to anticipate the hospital length of stay.

UI  - 22839709
TI  - [Effect of -3 polyunsaturated fatty acids on predictors of sudden cardiac death in patients with ischemic heart disease and ventricular rhythm disturbances].
AB  - 6 months supplementation with 1 g/day -3 PUFA for 6 months in patients with IHD improves the effect of standard antiarrhythmic therapy, reducing the number of isolated and paired PVCs, the number of unstable ventricular tachycardia paroxysms, improves HRT, HRV, increases red blood cells -3 index. The long-term (more than 3 months) -3 PUFA supplementation must consider be taken into in mTWA assessment to avoid false-positive findings in the SCD risk stratification.

UI  - 22825936
TI  - Combined hypotensive treatment with  3 hypotensive drugs in patients with recurrent atrial fibrillation and arterial hypertension ensures more effective arrhythmia control than using less drugs.
AB  - AH promotes more advanced AF forms occurrence. Combined hypotensive therapy with minimum 3 drugs, including RAA inhibitors, may be effective in terms of BP control and reduction of arrhythmia episodes.

UI  - 22824434
TI  - A comprehensive evaluation of rhythm monitoring strategies for the detection of atrial fibrillation recurrence: insights from 647 continuously monitored patients and implications for monitoring after therapeutic interventions.
AB  - URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00806689.

UI  - 22818021
TI  - Stroke risk and efficacy of apixaban in atrial fibrillation patients with moderate chronic kidney disease.
AB  - Stage III CKD was an independent predictor of stroke in atrial fibrillation patients taking aspirin. Among stage III CKD patients, apixaban significantly reduced stroke relative to aspirin without a significant increase in major hemorrhage.

UI  - 22813718
TI  - Model-based dose selection for phase III rivaroxaban study in Japanese patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation.
AB  - The global ROCKET AF phase III trial evaluated rivaroxaban 20 mg once daily (o.d.) for stroke prevention in atrial fibrillation (AF). Based on rivaroxaban pharmacokinetics in Japanese subjects and lower anticoagulation preferences in Japan, particularly in elderly patients, the optimal dose regimen for Japanese AF patients was considered. The aim of this analysis was dose selection for Japanese patients from a pharmacokinetic aspect by comparison of simulated exposure in Japanese patients with those in Caucasian patients. As a result of population pharmacokinetics-pharmacodynamics analyses, a one-compartment pharmacokinetic model with first-order absorption and direct link pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic models optimally described the plasma concentration and pharmacodynamic models (Factor Xa activity, prothrombin time, activated partial thromboplastin time, and HepTest), which were also consistent with previous works. Steady-state simulations indicated 15 mg rivaroxaban o.d. doses in Japanese patients with AF would yield exposures comparable to the 20 mg o.d. dose in Caucasian patients with AF. In conclusion, in the context of the lower anticoagulation targets in Japanese practice, the population pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic modeling supports 15 mg o.d. as the principal rivaroxaban dose in J-ROCKET AF.

UI  - 22798522
TI  - Mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists and cardiovascular mortality in patients with atrial fibrillation and left ventricular dysfunction: insights from the Atrial Fibrillation and Congestive Heart Failure Trial.
AB  - Renal dysfunction was highly prevalent in patients with AF and HF. Mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists were independently associated with an increased incidence of cardiovascular deaths, predominantly of presumed arrhythmic cause. Although these provocative findings merit prospective validation, they underscore the importance of careful monitoring of renal function and electrolytes in patients with AF and HF receiving mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists.

UI  - 22779430
TI  - High prevalence of silent brain infarction in patients presenting with mechanical heart valve thrombosis.
AB  - Registered in the US National Institutes of Health registry at http://clinicaltrials.gov as NCT00232622.

UI  - 22772053
TI  - Metoprolol succinate vs. ivabradine in the treatment of inappropriate sinus tachycardia in patients unresponsive to previous pharmacological therapy.
AB  - Metoprolol and ivabradine exert a similar effect on resting HR in patients with IST. Ivabradine seems to be more effective to relieve symptoms during exercise or daily activity.

UI  - 22770643
TI  - Cost-effectiveness of dronedarone in atrial fibrillation: results for Canada, Italy, Sweden, and Switzerland.
AB  - Dronedarone on top of SOC appears to be a cost-effective treatment for atrial fibrillation compared with SOC alone. Despite the differences in the local settings considered, the results were consistent among all the countries included in the study. ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT00174785.

UI  - 22733833
TI  - Cost-effectiveness of dabigatran compared with warfarin for patients with atrial fibrillation in Sweden.
AB  - Dabigatran is a cost-effective treatment in Sweden, as its incremental cost-effectiveness ratio is below the normally accepted willingness to pay limit.

UI  - 22726401
TI  - Sinus rhythm versus atrial fibrillation in elderly patients with chronic heart failure--insight from the Cardiac Insufficiency Bisoprolol Study in Elderly.
AB  - Elderly patients with chronic HF and AF derive comparable clinical benefits from beta-blocker titration as those in SR. Patients with AF tolerate higher beta-blocker doses than those in SR, which appears to be related to higher baseline HR.

UI  - 22713626
TI  - Short-term versus long-term antiarrhythmic drug treatment after cardioversion of atrial fibrillation (Flec-SL): a prospective, randomised, open-label, blinded endpoint assessment trial.
AB  - The German Federal Ministry of Education and Research, Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft, 3M Medica, and MEDA Pharmaceuticals.

UI  - 22693869
TI  - [Series: Clinical study from Japan and its reflections RE-LY trial].
AB  - 

UI  - 22689712
TI  - Effectiveness of amiodarone versus bepridil in achieving conversion to sinus rhythm in patients with persistent atrial fibrillation: a randomised trial.
AB  - Bepridil was superior to amiodarone in achieving sinus conversion and in maintaining sinus rhythm after cardioversion in patients with persistent AF. Even so, we must be watchful for potentially serious adverse complications when administering bepridil.

UI  - 22687400
TI  - The relationship between the plasma concentration of bepridil and its efficacy in the treatment of atrial fibrillation in Japanese patients.
AB  - Bepridil hydrochloride is used for treatment of atrial fibrillation (AF) in Japan. We investigated the relationship between plasma concentrations of bepridil just before dosing (Cbep) and its clinical efficacy in Japanese patients (n=36) with AF. Patients were treated orally with 100, 150 or 200 mg/d bepridil. Cbep were measured with UV-HPLC. In the first 14 d, when 150, 200, 250 or 300 ng/mL was set as a boundary value, the efficacy of bepridil was significantly higher in all patients with Cbep above than below the boundary value (p<0.05). In the maintenance stage (3 months longer after starting therapy), the efficacy of bepridil was significantly higher in patients with Cbep above than below 300 ng/mL (p=0.04). The clinical efficacy of bepridil was closely related to Cbep. The target value of Cbep to obtain a clinical benefit was approximately 300 ng/mL. Monitoring Cbep should be useful in the treatment of patients with AF.

UI  - 22664798
TI  - Randomized, multicenter, warfarin-controlled phase II study of edoxaban in Japanese patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation.
AB  - Edoxaban 30, 45, and 60mg QD in patients with NVAF was associated with a numerical increase in all bleeding across the dose range, but this was not statistically significant, nor was any dose compared with warfarin.

UI  - 22664783
TI  - Rivaroxaban vs. warfarin in Japanese patients with atrial fibrillation  the J-ROCKET AF study .
AB  - J-ROCKET AF demonstrated the safety of a Japan-specific rivaroxaban dose and supports bridging the global ROCKET AF results into Japanese clinical practice.

UI  - 22628450
TI  - ESC-EURObservational Research Programme: the Atrial Fibrillation Ablation Pilot Study, conducted by the European Heart Rhythm Association.
AB  - The AFib Ablation Pilot Study provides crucial information on AF ablation in clinical practice across Europe. These data are relevant for further improvement of the management strategies of patients suffering from atrial fibrillation.

UI  - 22627981
TI  - Impact of atrial fibrillation on outcome in thrombolyzed patients with stroke: evidence from the Virtual International Stroke Trials Archive (VISTA).
AB  - In this nonrandomized comparison, presence of atrial fibrillation had no independent impact on stroke outcome and compared with untreated comparators, the patients who received thrombolysis experienced an advantage in outcomes that was of equal magnitude whether in the presence or absence of atrial fibrillation.

UI  - 22624834
TI  - Dynamicity of the J-wave in idiopathic ventricular fibrillation with a special reference to pause-dependent augmentation of the J-wave.
AB  - Pause-dependent augmentation of J waves was confirmed in about one-half of the patients with idiopathic VF after sudden R-R prolongation. Such dynamicity of J waves was specific to idiopathic VF and may be used for risk stratification.

UI  - 22621799
TI  - Comparison of effectiveness of ranolazine plus amiodarone versus amiodarone alone for conversion of recent-onset atrial fibrillation.
AB  - Ranolazine, an antianginal agent with antiarrhythmic properties, prevents atrial fibrillation (AF) in patients with acute coronary syndrome. In experimental models, the combination of ranolazine and amiodarone has marked synergistic effects that potently suppress AF. Currently, the clinical effect of the ranolazine-amiodarone combination for the conversion of AF is unknown. This prospective randomized pilot study compared the safety and efficacy of ranolazine plus amiodarone versus amiodarone alone for the conversion of recent-onset AF. We enrolled 51 consecutive patients with AF (<48-hour duration) eligible for pharmacologic cardioversion. Patients (33 men, 63  8 years of age) were randomized to intravenous amiodarone for 24 hours (group A, n = 26) or to intravenous amiodarone plus oral ranolazine 1,500 mg at time of randomization (group A + R, n = 25). The 2 groups were well balanced with respect to clinical characteristics and left atrial diameter. Conversion within 24 hours (primary end point) was achieved in 22 patients (88%) in group A + R versus 17 patients (65%) in group A (p = 0.056). Time to conversion was shorter in group A + R than in group A (9.8  4.1 vs 14.6  5.3 hours, p = 0.002). According to Cox regression analysis, left atrial diameter and A + R treatment were the only independent predictors of time to conversion (hazard ratio 5.35, 95% confidence interval 2.37 to 12.11, p <0.001; hazard ratio 0.81, 95% confidence interval 0.74 to 0.88, p <0.001, respectively). There were no proarrhythmic events in either group. In conclusion, addition of ranolazine to standard amiodarone therapy is equally safe and appears to be more effective compared to amiodarone alone for conversion of recent-onset AF.

UI  - 22617224
TI  - Impact of the 1-adrenoceptor Arg389Gly polymorphism on heart-rate responses to bisoprolol and carvedilol in heart-failure patients.
AB  - This pharmacogenetic substudy of the prospective, double-blind, randomized CIBIS-ELD trial determined the impact of the 1-adrenoceptor Arg189Gly polymorphism on heart-rate responses to bisoprolol or carvedilol in elderly patients with heart failure (421 with sinus rhythm, 107 with atrial fibrillation). Patients were randomized 1:1 to bisoprolol or carvedilol with a fortnightly dose-doubling scheme and guideline target doses. Patients with sinus rhythm responded essentially identically to bisoprolol and carvedilol, independent of genotype. Atrial fibrillation patients homozygous for Arg389 had a much smaller response to carvedilol than carriers of at least one Gly389 allele (mean difference 12 bpm, P < 0.00001). Carvedilol up to 2  12.5 mg did not reduce heart rate in Arg389Arg homozygotes at all. Interestingly, the immediate response to carvedilol did not differ between genotypes. The Arg389Gly polymorphism has a major impact on the heart-rate response to carvedilol (but not bisoprolol) in patients with heart failure plus atrial fibrillation.

UI  - 22607868
TI  - Progression of atrial fibrillation in the REgistry on Cardiac rhythm disORDers assessing the control of Atrial Fibrillation cohort: clinical correlates and the effect of rhythm-control therapy.
AB  - Although heart failure and hypertension are associated with AF progression, rhythm control is associated with lower risk of AF progression.

UI  - 22607858
TI  - International variation in use of oral anticoagulation among heart failure patients with atrial fibrillation.
AB  - International use of guidelines-recommended anticoagulation in HF patients with AF varies significantly across countries and represents an important opportunity for improving quality of care.

UI  - 22584491
TI  - Successful improvement of frequency and symptoms of premature complexes after oral magnesium administration.
AB  - Oral Mg supplementation decreases PCD, resulting in symptom improvement.

UI  - 22575297
TI  - Use of rate control medication before cardioversion of recent-onset atrial fibrillation or flutter in the emergency department is associated with reduced success rates.
AB  - We demonstrated reduced successful electrical cardioversion of RAFF when patients were pretreated with either rate or rhythm control medication. Although rate control medication was not associated with increased success of chemical cardioversion, use of procainamide was. Slowing the ventricular rate prior to cardioversion should be avoided.

UI  - 22572202
TI  - Apixaban compared with warfarin in patients with atrial fibrillation and previous stroke or transient ischaemic attack: a subgroup analysis of the ARISTOTLE trial.
AB  - Bristol-Myers Squibb and Pfizer.

UI  - 22546623
TI  - A multicentre, randomized study of telmisartan versus carvedilol for prevention of atrial fibrillation recurrence in hypertensive patients.
AB  - Telmisartan was significantly more effective than carvedilol in preventing recurrent AF episodes in hypertensive AF patients, despite a similar lowering of blood pressure.

UI  - 22535516
TI  - Impact of glomerular filtration estimate on bleeding risk in very old patients treated with vitamin K antagonists. Results of EPICA study on the behalf of FCSA (Italian Federation of Anticoagulation Clinics).
AB  - Vitamin K antagonists (VKA) therapy is increasingly used in elderly for prevention of venous thromboembolism (VTE) and of stroke in atrial fibrillation (AF). Glomerular filtration rate (GFR), usually estimated from different equations, decreases progressively with age and it is a risk factor for bleeding. In the frame of the EPICA study, a multicentre prospective observational study including 4,093 patients 80 years nave to VKA treated for AF or after VTE, we performed this ancillary study to evaluate the prevalence of chronic kidney diseases (CKD) by estimated GFR (eGFR). Incidence of bleedings was recorded and bleeding risk was evaluated in relation to eGFR calculated by Cockroft-Gault (C-G); Modification of Diet in Renal Disease (MDRD) and Chronic Kidney Disease Epidemiology Collaboration (CKD-EPI) formulas. In addition, the agreement among the three eGFR formulas was evaluated. We recorded 179 major bleedings (rate 1.87 x100 patient-years [py]), 26 fatal (rate 0.27 x100 py). Moderate CKD was detected in 69.3%, 59.3% and 47.0% and severe CKD in 5.8%, 7.4% and 10.0% of cases by C-G, MDRD and CKD-EPI, respectively. Bleeding risk was higher in patients with severe CKD irrespective of the applied equation. This study confirms that CKD represents an independent risk factor for bleeding and that a wide proportion of elderly on VKA had severe or moderate CKD, suggesting the need for frequent monitoring. Although the different available equations yield different eGFR, all appear to similarly predict the risk of major bleeding.

UI  - 22522403
TI  - Effect of telmisartan on paroxysmal atrial fibrillation recurrence in hypertensive patients with normal or increased left atrial size.
AB  - Telmisartan was more effective than amlodipine in preventing AF recurrences in hypertensive patients with paroxysmal AF.

UI  - 22519759
TI  - Oral anticoagulant therapy in Italian patients 80 yr of age or older with atrial fibrillation: a pilot study of low vs. standard PT/INR targets.
AB  - A low PT/INR target seems effective and safe in Italian patients with AF over the age of 80. Further trials are needed to confirm the hypothesis generated by this study.

UI  - 22492518
TI  - Intracranial hemorrhage in atrial fibrillation patients during anticoagulation with warfarin or dabigatran: the RE-LY trial.
AB  - The clinical spectrum of intracranial hemorrhage was similar for patients given warfarin and dabigatran. Absolute rates at all sites and both fatal and traumatic intracranial hemorrhages were lower with dabigatran than with warfarin. Concomitant aspirin use was the most important modifiable independent risk factor for intracranial hemorrhage.

UI  - 22456472
TI  - Long-term outcomes of mechanical valve replacement in patients with atrial fibrillation: impact of the maze procedure.
AB  - Compared with valve replacement alone, the addition of the maze procedure was associated with a reduction in thromboembolic complications and improvements in hemodynamic performance in patients undergoing mechanical valve replacement, particularly in those with low risk of surgery.

UI  - 22447578
TI  - Impact of comorbidity on medication use in elderly patients with cardiovascular diseases: the OCTOCARDIO study.
AB  - Even in the absence of comorbidity, elderly patients with major cardiovascular diseases are denied from indicated medical treatments probably because of their age alone. Implementing measures to enhance awareness of treatment benefits and promote appropriate prescribing is necessary.

UI  - 22447005
TI  - Heparin bridging vs. uninterrupted oral anticoagulation in patients with Atrial Fibrillation undergoing Coronary Artery Stenting. Results from the AFCAS registry.
AB  - UAC does not increase perioperative complications during coronary stenting and is a simple and cost-effective alternative to conventional heparin bridging.

UI  - 22441774
TI  - Anxiety sensitivity moderates prognostic importance of rhythm-control versus rate-control strategies in patients with atrial fibrillation and congestive heart failure: insights from the Atrial Fibrillation and Congestive Heart Failure Trial.
AB  - URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT88597077.

UI  - 22424854
TI  - Interpretation and management of INR results: a case history based survey in 13 countries.
AB  - Variation in VKA monitoring is substantial implying clinical consequences. Guidelines seem either unknown or may be considered impracticable. Further efforts towards standardisation of VKA management are needed.

UI  - 22424006
TI  - Detection of QT prolongation using a novel electrocardiographic analysis algorithm applying intelligent automation: prospective blinded evaluation using the Cardiac Safety Research Consortium electrocardiographic database.
AB  - The virtually automated ECG algorithm used for this analysis produced similar yet less variable TQT results compared with the sponsor-reported study, without the use of a manual core laboratory. These findings indicate that CSRC ECG data sets can be useful for evaluating novel methods and algorithms for determining drug-induced QT/QTc prolongation. Although the results should not constitute endorsement of specific algorithms by either CSRC or FDA, the value of a public domain digital ECG warehouse to provide prospective, blinded comparisons of ECG technologies applied for QT/QTc measurement is illustrated.

UI  - 22418240
TI  - Impact of antihypertensive treatment on left ventricular systolic dyssynchrony in treatment-nave hypertensive patients.
AB  - Dyssynchrony is common in asymptomatic patients with hypertension. We sought to investigate the impact of antihypertensive treatment on dyssynchrony in patients with hypertension. A total of sixty patients who had uncomplicated hypertension that had never been treated (treatment-nave hypertensive patients) underwent echocardiographic evaluations of left ventricular (LV) dyssynchrony at baseline and after a 6-month treatment with antihypertensive drugs. The measured parameters were as follows: (1) the s.d. of 12 LV-segment time-to-peak systolic velocities (Ts-SD12), and (2) the maximal difference between peak systolic velocities of any 2 of the 12 segments (Ts-Max). Patients with Ts-SD12  33 ms or Ts-Max  100 ms were regarded as having LV systolic dyssynchrony. Patients with systolic dyssynchrony (group 1, n = 29) and without systolic dyssynchrony (group 2, n = 31) were compared. Among the patients in group 1, antihypertensive treatment significantly improved LV systolic dyssynchrony (Ts-SD12, -13.1 ms; P<0.001 and Ts-Max, -34.0 ms; P = 0.003), whereas it did not demonstrate additional benefit among group 2 patients. The change in LV systolic dyssynchrony was significantly associated with changes in the mean annulus E' velocity, mean annulus S' velocity and mean annulus E'/A' ratio, but not with changes in blood pressure and LV mass index. It is likely that chronic antihypertensive treatment could reverse the LV systolic dyssynchrony and simultaneously improve subclinical systolic and diastolic function in patients with hypertension and LV systolic dyssynchrony.

UI  - 22413438
TI  - [Effect of landiolol hydrochloride for intraoperative tachycardia--multicenter questionnaire study].
AB  - Information obtained by the questionnaire suggests that bolus injection and/or low-dose continuous administration of landiolol, which are not described in the drug information documents, are effective and safe for treatment of tachycardia during anesthesia.

UI  - 22402056
TI  - Rivaroxaban compared with warfarin in patients with atrial fibrillation and previous stroke or transient ischaemic attack: a subgroup analysis of ROCKET AF.
AB  - Johnson and Johnson Pharmaceutical Research and Development and Bayer HealthCare.

UI  - 22398858
TI  - A combined pharmacometric analysis of dabigatran etexilate in healthy volunteers and patients with atrial fibrillation or undergoing orthopaedic surgery.
AB  - Dabigatran etexilate is the orally bioavailable pro-drug of dabigatran, a direct thrombin inhibitor. Using data from eight clinical studies in healthy volunteers and patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation (AF) or undergoing orthopaedic surgery (OS), population pharmacokinetic (PK) and pharmacodynamic (PD) models were developed to investigate whether the PK and PD of dabigatran differ across different populations. In both healthy volunteers (n=80) and patients (n=1,965), the PK of dabigatran was best described by a two-compartment disposition model with first-order absorption and elimination. Renal function was the only covariate shown to have a clinically relevant impact on dabigatran exposure. The patient PK model was successfully applied in predicting exposure observed in the RE-LY trial evaluating dabigatran treatment in patients with non-valvular AF. The relationship between dabigatran plasma concentrations and activated partial thromboplastin time in healthy volunteers and patients (n=762) was best described with a combination of a linear model and a maximum effect (Emax) model, consistent with previous reports. PK/PD relationships were robust across the various populations tested and were not affected by any of the covariates examined. In summary, the PK of dabigatran is sufficiently consistent to allow extrapolation of data generated in healthy volunteers to patients with AF or undergoing OS.

UI  - 22398655
TI  - Modelling and simulation of edoxaban exposure and response relationships in patients with atrial fibrillation.
AB  - Edoxaban is a novel, orally available, highly specific direct inhibitor of factor Xa and is currently being developed for the treatment and prevention of venous thromboembolism and prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation (NVAF). The objectives of the present analyses were to characterise edoxaban population pharmacokinetics (PPK) and identify potential intrinsic and extrinsic factors affecting variability in edoxaban exposure, determine if there are relationships between edoxaban pharmacokinetics or biomarkers and the risk of bleeding in patients with NVAF using an exposure-response model, and to use the PPK and exposure-response model to support dose selection for a phase III trial of edoxaban in patients with NVAF. PPK analysis of data from 1,281 edoxaban-dosed subjects with intrinsic factors such as renal impairment or NVAF and extrinsic factors such as concomitant medications revealed significant effects of renal impairment and concomitant strong P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inhibitors on the pharmacokinetics of edoxaban. Exposure-response analysis found that in patients with NVAF, the incidence of bleeding events increased significantly with increasing edoxaban exposure, with steady-state minimum concentration (Cmin,ss) showing the strongest association. Clinical trial simulations of bleeding incidence were used to select 30 mg and 60 mg once-daily edoxaban with 50% dose reductions for patients with moderate renal impairment or receiving concomitant strong P-gp inhibitors as the treatment regimens in the ENGAGE AF-TIMI 48 (NCT00781391) trial.

UI  - 22374183
TI  - Cardiac biomarkers are associated with an increased risk of stroke and death in patients with atrial fibrillation: a Randomized Evaluation of Long-term Anticoagulation Therapy (RE-LY) substudy.
AB  - Elevations of troponin I and NT-proBNP are common in patients with AF and independently related to increased risks of stroke and mortality. Cardiac biomarkers seem useful for improving risk prediction in AF beyond currently used clinical variables.

UI  - 22368149
TI  - Effect of PON1 Q192R genetic polymorphism on clopidogrel efficacy and cardiovascular events in the Clopidogrel in the Unstable Angina to Prevent Recurrent Events trial and the Atrial Fibrillation Clopidogrel Trial with Irbesartan for Prevention of Vascular Events.
AB  - In conclusion, our study shows that PON1 Q192R genotype does not modify the efficacy and safety of clopidogrel in patients with acute coronary syndromes. Further studies are needed to confirm or refute the association of the Q allele with adverse cardiovascular events independent of clopidogrel in secondary prevention patients.

UI  - 22361918
TI  - Landiolol, an ultra-short-acting -blocker, more effectively terminates atrial fibrillation than diltiazem after open heart surgery: prospective, multicenter, randomized, open-label study (JL-KNIGHT study).
AB  - Landiolol is more effective and safer than diltiazem for patients with postoperative AF after open heart surgery.

UI  - 22341891
TI  - Two doses of spinal bupivacaine for caesarean delivery in severe preeclampsia: a pilot study.
AB  - 

UI  - 22305462
TI  - Apixaban versus aspirin in patients with atrial fibrillation and previous stroke or transient ischaemic attack: a predefined subgroup analysis from AVERROES, a randomised trial.
AB  - Bristol-Myers Squibb and Pfizer.

UI  - 22294717
TI  - Application of the UK NHS Improvement Anticoagulation Commissioning Support Document for 'safety indicators' in atrial fibrillation. Results of the European Action on Anticoagulation study.
AB  - The EAA clinical study provides a quantitative basis for the safety indicators' in AF listed in the NHS Commissioning Support Document and emphasises the importance of the document.

UI  - 22293451
TI  - Dabigatran in clinical practice for atrial fibrillation with special reference to activated partial thromboplastin time.
AB  - We found a wide distribution of APTT in NVAF patients under dabigatran treatment. High APTT might help screen for bleeding risks among patients under dabigatran, but requires future investigation.

UI  - 22291438
TI  - Efficacy and safety of vernakalant in patients with atrial flutter: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - Vernakalant did not restore sinus rhythm in patients with AFL. Vernakalant modestly slowed AFL and ventricular response rates, and was well tolerated.

UI  - 22279699
TI  - Atrial fibrillation: a primary care cross-sectional study.
AB  - The prevalence and age distribution of AF in southern Israel are similar to findings in the western world. Many of the patients did not receive appropriate antithrombotic prophylaxis.

UI  - 22277458
TI  - [Expectation to and problems of thrombin inhibitor].
AB  - Dabigatran is a direct thrombin inhibitor, does not require blood coagulation monitoring and limitation of vitamin K intake as well as very few drug interactions, and thus expected to be an oral anticoagulant alternative to warfarin. Randomized Evaluation of Long Term Anticoagulant Therapy (RE-LY) was conducted to determine non-inferiority of dabigatran against warfarin as an international multicenter-cooperative randomized trial in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation (NVAF). The results showed not only non-inferiority of dabigatran but also superiority of high-dose dabigatran in efficacy and of low-dose dabigatran in safety. In a sub-analysis of RE-LY in NVAF patients with history of stroke or TIA, who are at high risk of intracranial hemorrhage with anticoagulants, hemorrhagic stroke was much less frequent in patients on either dose of dabigatran than in those on warfarin. In a sub-analysis of RE-LY in Japanese patients with NVAF, the results showed a consistency of the efficacy and safety profiles of dabigatran with the results of the global RE-LY trial. Use of dabigatran should be contraindicated in NVAF patients with renal insufficiency because some cases with fatal bleeding have been reported in a post marketing survey.

UI  - 22276463
TI  - [Pharmacoepidemiologic investigations about the interactions between oral anticoagulants and other drugs in patients with hemostasis disorders].
AB  - Analysis and statistical processing of data shows that during the period of the study, 69 patients, which received oral anticoagulant therapy associated with different other medication belonged to the 60 and 80 years age group. The findings suggests the pathology is represented especially by atrial fibrillation and cerebral ischemic diseases. The correlation between the therapy consisting in OAC and amiodaronum or statines drugs association and International Normalized Ratio (INR), revealed a high level of anticoagulation and an increase of hemorragic complications.

UI  - 22223715
TI  - Clinical correlates of immediate success and outcome at 1-year follow-up of real-world cardioversion of atrial fibrillation: the Euro Heart Survey.
AB  - Contemporary cardioversion of AF is routinely successfully and safely performed with a high proportion of patients in SR at 1-year follow-up.

UI  - 22217461
TI  - [ECAIS study: inadvertent cardiovascular adverse events in sepsis].
AB  - In this study patients with sepsis showed a low incidence of cardiovascular ischemic events. In contrast, arrhythmic events showed a high incidence. Conventional monitoring failed to detect any of the ischemic events and most arrhythmic events. In this study, cardiovascular events generated by adrenergic discharge had no impact upon mortality.

UI  - 22215856
TI  - Myocardial ischemic events in patients with atrial fibrillation treated with dabigatran or warfarin in the RE-LY (Randomized Evaluation of Long-Term Anticoagulation Therapy) trial.
AB  - There was a nonsignificant increase in MI with dabigatran compared with warfarin, but other myocardial ischemic events were not increased. Treatment effects of dabigatran were consistent in patients at higher and lower risk of myocardial ischemic events.

UI  - 22214738
TI  - [The effect of levosimendan and dobutamine treatment on QT dispersion in patients with decompensated heart failure: a prospective study].
AB  - Our results suggest that, therapeutic doses of levosimendan infusion do not have a significant effect on QT parameters - the predictors of arrhythmias-, in patients with decompensated heart failure when compared with dobutamine infusion.

UI  - 23479986
TI  - [In search of optimal treatment for nonischemic ventricular arrhythmia in patients with anxiety disorders].
AB  - The psychogenic factor plays a significant and sometimes determining role in the genesis of non-coronarogenic VA. When used alone and in combination with antiarrthythmics, Adaptol proved to be effective in treating non-coronarogenic VA in patients with higher anxiety.

UI  - 22205496
TI  - A randomized trial of budiodarone in paroxysmal atrial fibrillation.
AB  - In this preliminary study, budiodarone at both higher doses significantly reduced AT/AFB. The study is novel because dual-chamber pacemakers, previously placed for standard clinical indications, were successfully used to monitor AT/AFB.

UI  - 22190167
TI  - Clinical features of patients with left atrial thrombus undergoing anticoagulant therapy.
AB  - D-dimer levels below 0.5 g/mL is not enough to rule out LA thrombus in AF patients with well-controlled anticoagulation.

UI  - 22177002
TI  - Impact of periprocedural atrial fibrillation on short-term clinical outcomes following percutaneous coronary intervention.
AB  - There are few data on the incidence and clinical outcomes of patients with atrial fibrillation (AF) treated in the era of percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). We analyzed 30-day clinical outcomes in 3,307 consecutive patients with and without AF (sinus rhythm) undergoing PCI from January 2007 through December 2008 enrolled in a multicenter Australian registry. Periprocedural AF was present in 162 patients (4.9%). AF was associated with older age (74.1  8.9 vs 63.9  11.9 years, p <0.001), higher baseline serum creatinine (0.13  0.14 vs 0.10  0.13 mmol/L, p = 0.01), and lower left ventricular ejection fraction (49.5  13.2% vs 53.4%  11.6%, p <0.001). Significantly more patients with AF had a history of heart failure and cerebrovascular and peripheral arterial diseases (p 0.01 for all comparisons). Periprocedural glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitor (31.5% vs 31.4%, p = 0.98) and antithrombin use were not different between groups, but in-hospital bleeding complications were higher in patients with AF (5.0% vs 2.1%, p = 0.015). Fewer patients with AF received drug-eluting stents (p = 0.004). AF was associated with a greater than fourfold increase in 30-day mortality (9.9% vs 2.2%, p <0.0001) and readmission rates at 30 days (p = 0.01). Fewer patients with AF were on dual antiplatelet therapy at 30 days (86.3% vs 94.3%, p <0.0001), although 28.1% of patients with AF were on triple therapy (dual antiplatelet therapy plus oral anticoagulation). In conclusion, patients with periprocedural AF represent a very high-risk group. Excess 30-day morbidity and mortality after PCI may be due to the higher incidence of co-morbidities, bleeding complications, and suboptimal antiplatelet therapy.

UI  - 22171925
TI  - Celivarone for maintenance of sinus rhythm and conversion of atrial fibrillation/flutter.
AB  - In these studies, celivarone does not appear to be efficacious in the maintenance of sinus rhythm in AF/AFL patients or for the conversion of AF/AFL patients.

UI  - 22168348
TI  - Use of oral anticoagulation among stroke patients with atrial fibrillation in China: the ChinaQUEST (Quality evaluation of stroke care and treatment) registry study.
AB  - These data indicate oral anticoagulation use is lower in stroke patients with atrial fibrillation in China than that in Western countries, being applied more often in those of younger age, nonmanual occupation, and having less cardiovascular risk factors.

UI  - 22157519
TI  - Angiotensin II-antagonist in paroxysmal atrial fibrillation (ANTIPAF) trial.
AB  - One year of ARB therapy per se does not reduce the number of AF episodes in patients with documented paroxysmal AF without structural heart disease. Clinical Trial Registration- URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00098137.

UI  - 22120130
TI  - Long-term omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid supplementation reduces the recurrence of persistent atrial fibrillation after electrical cardioversion.
AB  - Omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid supplementation commenced >1 month prior to electrical cardioversion and continued thereafter reduces the recurrence of persistent AF. Randomized controlled trials on long-term fish oil supplementation are needed to confirm these findings.

UI  - 22118824
TI  - Effect of warfarin on outcomes in septuagenarian patients with atrial fibrillation.
AB  - Anticoagulation has been shown to decrease ischemic stroke in atrial fibrillation (AF). However, concerns remain regarding their safety and efficacy in those 70 years of age who constitute most patients with AF. Of the 4,060 patients (mean age 65 years, range 49 to 80) in the Atrial Fibrillation Follow-up Investigation of Rhythm Management (AFFIRM) trial, 2,248 (55% of 4,060) were 70 to 80 years of age, 1,901 of whom were receiving warfarin. Propensity score for warfarin use, estimated for each of the 2,248 patients, was used to match 227 of the 347 patients not on warfarin (in 1:1, 1:2, or 1:3 sets) to 616 patients on warfarin who were balanced in 45 baseline characteristics. All-cause mortality occurred in 18% and 33% of matched patients receiving and not receiving warfarin, respectively, during up to 6 years (mean 3.4) of follow-up (hazard ratio [HR] when warfarin use was compared to its nonuse 0.58, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.43 to 0.77, p <0.001). All-cause hospitalization occurred in 64% and 67% of matched patients receiving and not receiving warfarin, respectively (HR associated with warfarin use 0.93, 95% CI 0.77 to 1.12, p = 0.423). Ischemic stroke occurred in 4% and 8% of matched patients receiving and not receiving warfarin, respectively (HR associated with warfarin use 0.57, 95% CI 0.31 to 1.04, p = 0.068). Major bleeding occurred in 7% and 10% of matched patients receiving and not receiving warfarin, respectively (HR associated with warfarin use 0.73, 95% CI 0.44 to 1.22, p = 0.229). In conclusion, warfarin use was associated with decreased mortality in septuagenarian patients with AF but had no association with hospitalization or major bleeding.

UI  - 22108512
TI  - Vernakalant: conversion of atrial fibrillation in patients with ischemic heart disease.
AB  - Vernakalant was safe and well tolerated in AF/AFL patients with a history of IHD, and was significantly more effective than placebo for the acute conversion of AF regardless of IHD status.

UI  - 22098039
TI  - Heparin bridging therapy and bleeding events in octogenarian inpatients with atrial fibrillation starting anticoagulation: results of an ancillary study.
AB  - 

UI  - 22082198
TI  - Dronedarone in high-risk permanent atrial fibrillation.
AB  - Dronedarone increased rates of heart failure, stroke, and death from cardiovascular causes in patients with permanent atrial fibrillation who were at risk for major vascular events. Our data show that this drug should not be used in such patients. (Funded by Sanofi-Aventis; PALLAS ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT01151137.).

UI  - 22074122
TI  - Effects of aliskiren on QT duration and dispersion in hypertensive patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - Despite similar BP lowering effect, aliskiren, but not amlodipine, reduced QT duration and dispersion, which might be related to the ability of aliskiren to interfere with mechanisms underlying myocardial electrical instability in the heart of diabetic hypertensive patients.

UI  - 22046815
TI  - [Interactions between oral anticoagulants and other medication in emergency department--a pharmacoepidemiologic approach].
AB  - Analysis and statistical processing of data shows that during the study period 56 patients which received oral anticoagulant therapy associated with different other medication belonged to the 60 and 80 years age group. This finding suggests that the pathology is represented especially by atrial fibrillation and myocardial infarction. The correlation between the therapy consisting in OAC and sartan or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and International Normalized Ratio (INR), revealed a high level of anticoagulation and an increase in hemorragic complications.

UI  - 22041946
TI  - Net clinical benefit of adding clopidogrel to aspirin therapy in patients with atrial fibrillation for whom vitamin K antagonists are unsuitable.
AB  - Bristol-Myers Squibb and sanofi-aventis.

UI  - 22034996
TI  - The Modified Ablation Guided by Ibutilide Use in Chronic Atrial Fibrillation (MAGIC-AF) Study: clinical background and study design.
AB  - The MAGIC-AF study will assess the utility of a combined pharmaco-ablative strategy in patients with persistent AF undergoing a CFAE based ablation strategy.

UI  - 21996417
TI  - Prognostic importance of atrial fibrillation in asymptomatic aortic stenosis: the Simvastatin and Ezetimibe in Aortic Stenosis study.
AB  - Rate of AF is moderate in asymptomatic AS. Longstanding but not episodic AF was, independently predictive of increased risk of heart failure and non-hemorrhagic stroke. New-onset AF was associated with cardiac decompensation.

UI  - 21996393
TI  - The effect of rate control on quality of life in patients with permanent atrial fibrillation: data from the RACE II (Rate Control Efficacy in Permanent Atrial Fibrillation II) study.
AB  - Stringency of heart rate control does not influence QOL. Instead, symptoms, sex, age, and severity of the underlying disease influence QOL. (Rate Control Efficacy in Permanent Atrial Fibrillation; NCT00392613).

UI  - 21995973
TI  - Treatment effect estimates varied depending on the definition of the provider prescribing preference-based instrumental variables.
AB  - The IV estimates of treatment effect may vary considerably depending on the IV definition. Choosing the strongest IV could reduce the variance of the IV estimates.

UI  - 21986286
TI  - Isolated atrioventricular block in the fetus: a retrospective, multinational, multicenter study of 175 patients.
AB  - Risk factors associated with a poor outcome were gestation < 20 weeks, ventricular rate  50 bpm, hydrops, and impaired left ventricular function. No significant effect of treatment with fluorinated corticosteroids was seen.

UI  - 21983766
TI  - [Comparative effects of nebivolol and valsartan on atrial electromechanical coupling in newly diagnosed stage 1 hypertensive patients].
AB  - Prolonged interatrial electromechanical time intervals in hypertensives are improved with antihypertensive treatment.

UI  - 21983111
TI  - The cost of clopidogrel use in atrial fibrillation in the ACTIVE-A trial.
AB  - C+A in patients unsuitable for VKA therapy is cost neutral (following our predefined conditions) as cost of clopidogrel is offset by prevention of costly strokes. These findings support the use of C+A in ACTIVE-A patients for whom VKA therapy is unsuitable.

UI  - 21981797
TI  - Development and comparison of a warfarin-dosing algorithm for Korean patients with atrial fibrillation.
AB  - This study derived and validated a multivariate regression model for daily warfarin dose requirements in Korean patients with atrial fibrillation. As no algorithm could be considered the best for all dosing ranges, it may be important to consider the characteristics or limitations of each dosing algorithm and the nature of a population in choosing the most appropriate pharmacogenetic dosing.

UI  - 21978965
TI  - Celivarone in patients with an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator: adjunctive therapy for the reduction of ventricular arrhythmia-triggered implantable cardioverter-defibrillator interventions.
AB  - Celivarone tends to reduce ventricular tachycardia-/ventricular fibrillation-triggered ICD therapies. This effect was not statistically significant. There was a trend toward greater efficacy in the 300-mg group, especially in patients undergoing ICD therapy within 30 days prior to randomization. Overall, celivarone was well tolerated.

UI  - 21972820
TI  - Population pharmacokinetic analysis of the oral thrombin inhibitor dabigatran etexilate in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation from the RE-LY trial.
AB  - The analysis provides a thorough PK characterization of dabigatran in the AF patient population from RE-LY. None of the covariates investigated, with the exception of renal function, warrants dose adjustment.

UI  - 21967071
TI  - Effect of nalmefene 20 and 80 mg on the corrected QT interval and T-wave morphology: a randomized, double-blind, parallel-group, placebo- and moxifloxacin-controlled, single-centre study.
AB  - This thorough QT/QTc study was a negative study in accordance with the ICH E14 guideline, meaning that nalmefene has no clinically relevant effect on the QTc interval and T-wave morphology. The study predicts no concern over proarrhythmia or need for intensive QTc monitoring with the use of nalmefene in clinical practice.

UI  - 21959598
TI  - Effectiveness and safety of warfarin initiation in older hemodialysis patients with incident atrial fibrillation.
AB  - Although we confirmed association between warfarin use and hemorrhagic stroke in dialysis patients with AF, we found no association between warfarin use and ischemic stroke. Adequately powered randomized trials are required to conclusively determine the risks and benefits of the studied warfarin indication in hemodialysis patients.

UI  - 21946315
TI  - Radiofrequency catheter ablation and antiarrhythmic drug therapy: a prospective, randomized, 4-year follow-up trial: the APAF study.
AB  - URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00340314.

UI  - 21942955
TI  - [Possibilities of a preparation omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids in the treatment of patients with ventricular arrhythmias and myocardial infarction].
AB  - The aim was to study the effectiveness of prescription medication containing 90% omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids for 6 months on ventricular arrhythmias in patients with myocardial infarction less than a year ago. The study involved 56 patients with ventricular extrasystoles, from 500 to 1000 per day. Divided into two groups of patients we divided into I group - 30 people - received in addition to standard drug therapy of omega-3 PUFA 1 g daily, for 6 months; II group - 26 men were given only previously assigned therapies. The average age of patients in group I - 60,7+/-8,6, II group - 61+/-9,7 years (p> 0,05). ECG monitoring was performed at 3 and 6 months. Administration of highly concentration preparation of omega-3 PUFAs for 3 months reduced number of PVCs per day, frequencies of grades 2, 3, 4A, 4B, and high grade PVCs (grades 3 - 5) as a whole. These effects persisted after 6 months of treatment.

UI  - 21940001
TI  - [Prevalence of atrial fibrillation and related factors in hospitalized old patients: ESFINGE study].
AB  - Over one third of hospitalized patients older than 70 years have AF, which is generally relapsing and permanent. Heart failure is the commonest reason for hospitalization in these patients and about 40% have an associated disease.

UI  - 21931080
TI  - Comparison of transplacental treatment of fetal supraventricular tachyarrhythmias with digoxin, flecainide, and sotalol: results of a nonrandomized multicenter study.
AB  - Flecainide and digoxin were superior to sotalol in converting SVT to a normal rhythm and in slowing both AF and SVT to better-tolerated ventricular rates and therefore might be considered first to treat significant fetal tachyarrhythmia.

UI  - 21930724
TI  - Maintenance of sinus rhythm with an ablation strategy in patients with atrial fibrillation is associated with a lower risk of stroke and death.
AB  - Restoration of sinus rhythm by catheter ablation of AF is associated with lower rates of stroke and death compared with patients treated medically.

UI  - 21930542
TI  - Comparison of umbilical venous and intraosseous access during simulated neonatal resuscitation.
AB  - In a simulated delivery room setting, ION placement can be performed more quickly than UVC insertion without any difference in technical error rate or perceived ease of use. ION insertion should be considered when rapid intravenous access is required in the neonate at the time of birth, especially by health care professionals who do not routinely place UVCs.

UI  - 21926261
TI  - Left atrial remodeling and response to valsartan in the prevention of recurrent atrial fibrillation: the GISSI-AF echocardiographic substudy.
AB  - GISSI-AF patients in sinus rhythm and history of AF showed severely increased LAVmax with mostly normal LV volume, mass, and systolic and diastolic function. Valsartan for 1 year did not reverse LA remodeling or prevent AFr. Half of the patients without AFr had severe LA dilation; therefore, mechanisms other than structural remodeling triggered recurrence.

UI  - 21925716
TI  - Effect on perfusion chamber thrombus size in patients with atrial fibrillation during anticoagulant treatment with oral direct thrombin inhibitors, AZD0837 or ximelagatran, or with vitamin K antagonists.
AB  - Effects of AZD0837 and ximelagatran on thrombus formation were similar or greater than for VKA therapy and correlated with plasma concentrations of their active forms.

UI  - 21914315
TI  - [Evaluation of shensongyangxin capsules in the treatment of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation: a randomized, double-blind and controlled multicenter trial].
AB  - Shensongyangxin capsules and propafenone have comparable efficacies in the treatment of PAF. The efficacy of TCM symptoms is better than propafenone. Shensongyangxin capsules have an excellent profile of safety.

UI  - 21911317
TI  - Pharmacological conversion of recent atrial fibrillation: a randomized, placebo-controlled study of three antiarrhythmic drugs.
AB  - In patients with recent-onset AF, oral flecainide, amiodarone or propafenone are superior to placebo in restoring sinus rhythm within the 24-hour period following the drug intake.

UI  - 21903982
TI  - Warfarin in atrial fibrillation patients with moderate chronic kidney disease.
AB  - Among atrial fibrillation patients participating in the Stroke Prevention in Atrial Fibrillation III trials, stage 3 CKD was associated with higher rates of ischemic stroke/systemic embolism. Adjusted-dose warfarin markedly reduced ischemic stroke/systemic embolism in high-risk atrial fibrillation patients with stage 3 CKD.

UI  - 21895039
TI  - Rivaroxaban: population pharmacokinetic analyses in patients treated for acute deep-vein thrombosis and exposure simulations in patients with atrial fibrillation treated for stroke prevention.
AB  - Population analyses of phase II clinical data indicated that the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of all rivaroxaban doses were predictable and were affected by expected demographic factors in patients with acute DVT.

UI  - 21875859
TI  - Heart rate reduction with ivabradine and health related quality of life in patients with chronic heart failure: results from the SHIFT study.
AB  - In patients with systolic HF, low HQoL is associated with an increased rate of cardiovascular death or hospital admission for HF. Reduction in HR with ivabradine is associated with improved HQoL. The magnitude of HR reduction is related to the extent of improvement in HQoL.

UI  - 21875858
TI  - Effects of selective heart rate reduction with ivabradine on left ventricular remodelling and function: results from the SHIFT echocardiography substudy.
AB  - Ivabradine reverses cardiac remodelling in patients with HF and LV systolic dysfunction.

UI  - 21870978
TI  - Apixaban versus warfarin in patients with atrial fibrillation.
AB  - In patients with atrial fibrillation, apixaban was superior to warfarin in preventing stroke or systemic embolism, caused less bleeding, and resulted in lower mortality. (Funded by Bristol-Myers Squibb and Pfizer; ARISTOTLE ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00412984.).

UI  - 21861038
TI  - Safety of ablation for atrial fibrillation with therapeutic INR: comparison with transition to low-molecular-weight heparin.
AB  - Catheter ablation for AF without withholding OAC and with therapeutic INR is a strategy that has similar safety and efficacy when compared with the traditional transition to LMWH, avoiding the potentially inadequate anticoagulation of the initial post-ablation period.

UI  - 21851883
TI  - Effect of lenient versus strict rate control on cardiac remodeling in patients with atrial fibrillation data of the RACE II (RAte Control Efficacy in permanent atrial fibrillation II) study.
AB  - Female sex, not lenient rate control, seemed to be associated with significant adverse cardiac remodeling in patients with permanent AF such as those enrolled in the RACE II study. (RAte Control Efficacy in Permanent Atrial Fibrillation [RACE II]; NCT00392613).

UI  - 21841092
TI  - Patient self-management of warfarin therapy: pragmatic feasibility study in Canadian primary care.
AB  - Patient self-management was not demonstrated to be superior to standard care, but was easily implemented and was the method preferred by patients. Our feasibility outcomes justify a larger trial and suggest that subject recruitment and protocol adherence would not pose barriers for such a study. Trial registration number NCT00925028 (ClinicalTrials.gov).

UI  - 21835301
TI  - Clinical characteristics of patients with asymptomatic recurrences of atrial fibrillation in the Gruppo Italiano per lo Studio della Sopravvivenza nell'Infarto Miocardico-Atrial Fibrillation (GISSI-AF) trial.
AB  - Asymptomatic AF recurrences were frequent in the GISSI-AF study population in patients who were more likely to develop persistent-permanent AF and were characterized by an increased thromboembolic risk.

UI  - 21830957
TI  - Rivaroxaban versus warfarin in nonvalvular atrial fibrillation.
AB  - In patients with atrial fibrillation, rivaroxaban was noninferior to warfarin for the prevention of stroke or systemic embolism. There was no significant between-group difference in the risk of major bleeding, although intracranial and fatal bleeding occurred less frequently in the rivaroxaban group. (Funded by Johnson & Johnson and Bayer; ROCKET AF ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00403767.).

UI  - 21810658
TI  - Bleeding risk in very old patients on vitamin K antagonist treatment: results of a prospective collaborative study on elderly patients followed by Italian Centres for Anticoagulation.
AB  - In this large study on very old patients on VKA carefully monitored by anticoagulation clinics, the rate of bleedings was low, suggesting that age in itself should not be considered a contraindication to treatment. Adequate management of VKA therapy in specifically trained center allows very old and frail patients to benefit from VKA thromboprophylaxis.

UI  - 21798501
TI  - Practice-level variation in warfarin use among outpatients with atrial fibrillation (from the NCDR PINNACLE program).
AB  - Warfarin is a complex but highly effective treatment for decreasing thromboembolic risk in atrial fibrillation (AF). We examined contemporary warfarin treatment rates in AF before the expected introduction of newer anticoagulants and extent of practice-level variation in warfarin use. Within the National Cardiovascular Data Registry Practice Innovation and Clinical Excellence program from July 2008 through December 2009, we identified 9,113 outpatients with AF from 20 sites who were at moderate to high risk for stroke (congestive heart failure, hypertension, age, diabetes, stroke score >1) and would be optimally treated with warfarin. Using hierarchical models, the extent of site-level variation was quantified with the median rate ratio, which can be interpreted as the likelihood that 2 random practices would differ in treating "identical" patients with warfarin. Overall rate of warfarin treatment was only 55.1% (5,018 of 9,913). Untreated patients and treated patients had mean congestive heart failure, hypertension, age, diabetes, stroke scores of 2.5 (p = 0.38) and similar rates of heart failure, hypertension, diabetes mellitus, and previous stroke, suggesting an almost "random" pattern of treatment. At the practice level, however, there was substantial variation in treatment ranging from 25% to 80% (interquartile range for practices 50 to 65), with a median rate ratio of 1.31 (1.22 to 1.55, p <0.001). In conclusion, within the Practice Innovation and Clinical Excellence registry, we found that warfarin treatment in AF was suboptimal, with large variations in treatment observed across practices. Our findings suggest important opportunities for practice-level improvement in stroke prevention for outpatients with AF and define a benchmark treatment rate before the introduction of newer anticoagulant agents.

UI  - 21791869
TI  - Determinants of warfarin use and international normalized ratio levels in atrial fibrillation patients in Japan. - Subanalysis of the J-RHYTHM Registry-.
AB  - Currently in Japan, adherence to the guidelines regarding anticoagulation therapy is limited (UMIN Clinical Trials Registry UMIN000001569).

UI  - 21786177
TI  - Population pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic analysis of vernakalant hydrochloride injection (RSD1235) in atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter.
AB  - Vernakalant hydrochloride is a novel, relatively atrial-selective antiarrhythmic agent that rapidly converts atrial fibrillation (AF) to sinus rhythm (SR). This analysis integrates pharmacokinetic (PK) and safety data from 5 clinical trials of patients with AF or atrial flutter (AFL). Patients were initially given a 10-min intravenous (IV) infusion of vernakalant 3 mg/kg or placebo. If SR was not evident after a 15-min observation, then a second 10-min IV infusion of vernakalant 2 mg/kg or placebo was given. Population pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic (PK/PD) models were constructed for QT interval prolongation corrected for heart rate by Fridericia's formula (QTcF) and for changes in systolic blood pressure (SBP). The exposure-response relationships for QTcF and SBP were best described by sigmoidal maximum-effect (E (max)) models. For QTcF, the model was characterized by a typical E (max) of 20.3 ms, and by a vernakalant median effective concentration dependent (EC) on conversion status (4,222 ng/ml for patients converting to SR and 2,276 ng/ml for those remaining in AF/AFL). For SBP, the model was characterized by E (max) of 3.05 mmHg and EC of 1,141 ng/ml. Risk of hypotension (SBP <90 mmHg) was primarily associated with low baseline SBP and to a smaller extent with a history of congestive heart failure (CHF); plasma vernakalant concentrations showed a small contribution to the risk of hypotension (relative risk = 1.4 at 4,000 ng/ml), which may be significant with a baseline SBP of <105 mmHg. These results show that vernakalant had a smaller effect on QTcF in patients who demonstrated conversion to SR than those remaining in AF or AFL, and it had a relatively small effect on SBP.

UI  - 21784372
TI  - Persisting thrombin activity in elderly patients with atrial fibrillation on oral anticoagulation is decreased by anti-inflammatory therapy with intensive cholesterol-lowering treatment.
AB  - Intensive cholesterol lowering significantly reduced inflammation and was accompanied by reduced thrombin generation. Larger clinical studies should determine which inflammatory markers are most specific and sensitive for estimating the inflammatory burden in these patients and at which corresponding thrombin activity level it is beneficial and safe to add intensive cholesterol lowering therapy even if normal cholesterol levels are present.

UI  - 21778447
TI  - Improved late survival and disability after stroke with therapeutic anticoagulation for atrial fibrillation: a population study.
AB  - In addition to improving short-term outcome in selected hospital-treated patient groups, therapeutic anticoagulation may provide important benefits for long-term stroke outcomes in unselected populations.

UI  - 21757938
TI  - Atorvastatin given prior to electrical cardioversion does not affect the recurrence of atrial fibrillation in patients with persistent atrial fibrillation who are on antiarrhythmic therapy.
AB  - Atorvastatin therapy prior to EC does not prevent the recurrence of arrhythmia in patients with persistent AF who are receiving antiarrhythmic therapy.

UI  - 21742102
TI  - Atrial fibrillation and mortality in African American patients with heart failure: results from the African American Heart Failure Trial (A-HeFT).
AB  - African Americans with HF and AF (vs no AF) were older, had lower BP, and had higher creatinine and brain natriuretic peptide levels. Mortality and morbidity were worse when AF was present, and these data suggest that there may be an enhanced survival benefit with the use of FDC I/H in AA patients with HF and AF.

UI  - 21737956
TI  - Effects of quinidine on the action potential duration restitution property in the right ventricular outflow tract in patients with brugada syndrome.
AB  - Quinidine appears to suppress the induction of VF by increasing RVOT MAP duration and decreasing the maximum slope of the restitution curve.

UI  - 21712169
TI  - Ivabradine, a novel heart rate slower: is it a sword of double blades in patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy?
AB  - Ivabradine is a safe and effective drug in reducing resting heart rate, improving NYHA functional class without undesirable effects on conduction parameters or ectopic activity.

UI  - 21670542
TI  - Safety and efficacy of the oral direct factor xa inhibitor apixaban in Japanese patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation. -The ARISTOTLE-J study-.
AB  - In Japanese patients with AF, apixaban 2.5 and 5mg b.i.d. were well tolerated over 12 weeks. A global phase III trial, which includes Japanese patients, is ongoing (ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier NCT00787150).

UI  - 21651593
TI  - Correlation between AF substrate ablation difficulty and left atrial fibrosis quantified by delayed-enhancement cardiac magnetic resonance.
AB  - LA DE-CMR can predict increased difficulty of CFAE ablation in AF. This tool may be beneficial in both selection of patients and ablation strategy.

UI  - 21635612
TI  - -blockers protect against dispersion of repolarization during exercise in congenital long-QT syndrome type 1.
AB  - In LQT1 patients, -blockers reduced QT and T(pe) during exercise and recovery, supporting the theory that -blocker therapy protects LQT1 patients by reducing dispersion of repolarization during exercise and recovery.

UI  - 21635195
TI  - Anticoagulation prescription in atrial fibrillation.
AB  - Although prognosis of patients with AF is mainly determined by the long-term thrombotic risk, the prescription of antithrombotic therapy depends more on the bleeding risk and the immediate thrombotic risk perception.

UI  - 21631213
TI  - Hemodynamic instability following carotid artery stenting.
AB  - Hemodynamic instability occurs frequently after CAS, but it seems to be a benign phenomenon and does not increase the risk of mortality or morbidity in the short term. A VR at rest less than 1.10, baseline autonomic dysfunction, and degree of carotid artery stenosis can be used as measures for predicting HI after CAS.

UI  - 21626804
TI  - [First experience of clinical use of new class III antiarrhythmic agent niferidil in patients with persistent atrial fibrillation and flutter].
AB  - The aim of the study was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of administered intravenously niferidil in doses 10, 20 and 30 mkg per kg in patients with persistent atrial fibrillation (AF) and flutter (AFL) for pharmacological cardioversion. The study included 30 patients (22 male) with persistent AF (n = 28) and AFL (n = 2) without structural heart diseases with median arrhythmia duration 6.1 +/- 4.8 months (2 weeks to 24 months). Niferidil was administered as 3 bolus injections (10 mkg per kg each) performed with the interval of 15 minutes. Antiarrhythmic efficacy of niferidil in dose of 10 mkg per kg was 60%, in dose of 20 mkg per kg it was 70%, and in dose of 30 mkg per kg reached 90% prespectively. The part of the patients, in whom QTc prolongation exceeded potentionally dangerous value of 500 mc, was 22.2% (6 of 27). None of the patients developed proarrhythmic side effect as torsade de pointes.

UI  - 21624541
TI  - Effects of chronic omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid supplementation on human pulmonary vein and left atrial electrophysiology in paroxysmal atrial fibrillation.
AB  - Omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids in fish oils may have antifibrillatory effects; however, their electrophysiologic effects in paroxysmal atrial fibrillation (PAF) remain unknown. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of chronic fish oil supplementation on human pulmonary vein (PV) and left atrial electrophysiology in PAF. Patients with PAF undergoing PV isolation were randomized 1 month before their procedure into a control group (n = 18) or a fish oil group (n = 18) in an unblinded fashion. The latter were supplemented with fish oil 6 g/day for a mean of 40  12 days. Pulmonary venous and left atrial effective refractory periods (ERPs), PV conduction, and susceptibility to AF initiated within PVs were assessed. Compared to the control group, the fish oil group had (1) longer left-sided (p = 0.002) and right-sided (p = 0.001) pulmonary venous ERPs; (2) less dispersion of pulmonary venous ERPs (left PVs p = 0.001, right PVs p = 0.07); (3) longer left atrial ERPs (p = 0.02); (4) no difference in pulmonary venous conduction; (5) lower incidence of AF initiated from PVs during ERP testing (77% vs 31%, p = 0.02); and (6) prolongation of mean AF cycle length (p = 0.009) and shortest AF cycle length in PVs (p = 0.04). In conclusion, patients with PAF chronically supplemented with fish oils exhibit distinctive electrophysiologic properties including prolonged pulmonary venous and left atrial ERPs and decreased susceptibility to initiation AF from within PVs. These changes may in part explain the antifibrillatory effect of chronic omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid supplementation in patients with PAF.

UI  - 21623067
TI  - Atrial fibrillation in Saudi patients.
AB  - 

UI  - 21619383
TI  - QT response after a test dose and during maintenance therapy with AZD1305 in patients with atrial fibrillation: a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - In this exploratory study a test dose predicted the QT response during maintenance treatment with AZD1305 and may thus be employed in further studies. [ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT00643448].

UI  - 21618202
TI  - Association of the idiotype:antiidiotype antibody ratio with the efficacy of intravenous immunoglobulin treatment for the prevention of recurrent autoimmune-associated congenital heart block.
AB  - This is the first study in humans to demonstrate that IVIG influences the Id-anti-Id network of a specific pathogenic autoantibody. Specifically, we showed that IVIG enhanced the anti-Id antibody response in pregnant women with anti-La/SSB antibodies. A high Id:anti-Id ratio in both the IVIG preparation and the maternal serum may explain the absence of an effect of IVIG in preventing recurrent neonatal lupus in some cases.

UI  - 21616951
TI  - Anticoagulation control in Sweden: reports of time in therapeutic range, major bleeding, and thrombo-embolic complications from the national quality registry AuriculA.
AB  - Compared with prospective randomized trials of warfarin treatment, TTR in the AuriculA population was higher. Complications were low, probably due to the organization of anticoagulation treatment in Sweden. Use of the AuriculA dosing programme could have contributed to the results by keeping dosing regimens consistent over all centres.

UI  - 21616285
TI  - Flecainide therapy reduces exercise-induced ventricular arrhythmias in patients with catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia.
AB  - Flecainide reduced exercise-induced ventricular arrhythmias in patients with CPVT not controlled by conventional drug therapy.

UI  - 21585647
TI  - Incidence of chronic kidney disease in patients with atrial fibrillation and its relevance for prescribing new oral antithrombotic drugs.
AB  - 

UI  - 21576658
TI  - Risk of bleeding with 2 doses of dabigatran compared with warfarin in older and younger patients with atrial fibrillation: an analysis of the randomized evaluation of long-term anticoagulant therapy (RE-LY) trial.
AB  - http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00262600.

UI  - 21576129
TI  - Impact of dronedarone on hospitalization burden in patients with atrial fibrillation: results from the ATHENA study.
AB  - Dronedarone reduced the risk for CV hospitalization and the total hospitalization burden in this patient group. The trial is registered under ClinicalTrials.gov #NCT 00174785.

UI  - 21570534
TI  - High-dose atorvastatin and risk of atrial fibrillation in patients with prior stroke or transient ischemic attack: analysis of the Stroke Prevention by Aggressive Reduction in Cholesterol Levels (SPARCL) trial.
AB  - High-dose atorvastatin does not prevent development of AF in patients with prior stroke or transient ischemic attack.

UI  - 21561900
TI  - Pharmacological cardioversion of atrial fibrillation--a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, multicentre, dose-escalation study of AZD1305 given intravenously.
AB  - http://clinicaltrials.gov identifier NCT00915356.

UI  - 21551479
TI  - Beneficial effect of pioglitazone on the outcome of catheter ablation in patients with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation and type 2 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - Pioglitazone improved the preservation of sinus rhythm and reduced the reablation rate in patients with PAF and T2DM after catheter ablation.

UI  - 21543035
TI  - Effect of multiple doses of fimasartan, an angiotensin II receptor antagonist, on the steady-state pharmacokinetics of digoxin in healthy volunteers.
AB  - Coadministration of fimasartan with digoxin does not result in clinically significant changes of digoxin pharmacokinetics at steady-state in healthy subjects.

UI  - 21517667
TI  - Low molecular weight heparin versus unfractionated heparin for thromboprophylaxis in patients with acute atrial fibrillation: a randomized control trial.
AB  - While long-term anticoagulation prevents ischemic stroke in high-risk patients with atrial fibrillation (AF), the optimal initial anti-thrombotic regime in acute AF is less well defined. We randomized 96 patients with new onset acute AF in an emergency admission ward to receive (1) once-daily preparation of low molecular weight heparin (LMWH), tinzaparin or (2) conventional intravenous unfractionated heparin (target APTT 50-70 s). 5 patients in unfractionated heparin group compared with no patients in LMWH group (0%, P = 0.04) developed ischemic stroke/transient ischemic attack during the first 48 h. An initial subcutaneous LMWH was safe and effective in ischemic stroke prevention in patients with acute AF.

UI  - 21512184
TI  - Cost effectiveness of warfarin versus aspirin in patients older than 75 years with atrial fibrillation.
AB  - Warfarin is cost-effective compared with aspirin in atrial fibrillation patients age 75 years. These data support the anticoagulant therapy option in this high-risk patient population. However, the small differences in costs and effects indicate the importance of exploring patient preferences.

UI  - 21508007
TI  - Local activation times at the high posterior wall of the left atrium during left atrial appendage pacing predict roof line block with high specificity and sensitivity.
AB  - Parameters derived from the measurement of LAT of the high posterior and anterior LA wall help guide the assessment of roof line block.

UI  - 21505156
TI  - Prompt repeat testing after out-of-range INR values: a quality indicator for anticoagulation care.
AB  - Prompt repeat testing after out-of-range INR values is associated with better anticoagulation control at the site level and could be an important part of a quality improvement effort for oral anticoagulation.

UI  - 21487792
TI  - Transesophageal electrophysiological evaluation of children with a history of supraventricular tachycardia in infancy.
AB  - Supraventricular tachycardia (SVT) presenting in the neonatal period may resolve by 1 year of age. Predicting which patients require therapy beyond 1 year of age is desirable. Pediatric electrophysiology databases from two institutions were reviewed for patients with a history of infant SVT who underwent transesophageal electrophysiology study (TEEPS) after initial SVT and before 2 years of age. All patients were tested off medications and followed for clinical recurrence. Forty-two patients presented with SVT at median age of 4 days (0-300 days). Initial control was achieved with one drug in 31 patients and multiple drugs in 11 patients. Prior to TEEPS, nine patients had clinical recurrence in the first year of life after initial control had been previously achieved. For all patients, TEEPS was performed, without complications, at median 13 months (9-22 months) of age and at median of 13 months (6-22 months) following the initial SVT episode. SVT was inducible in 27/42: 8 atrio-ventricular nodal reentry tachycardia (AVNRT) and 19 atrio-ventricular reciprocating tachycardia (AVRT). Inducibility was not associated with age at presentation, age at TEEPS, ventricular dysfunction at presentation, presence of structural congenital heart disease, number of drugs required to initially control SVT, or SVT recurrence after initial control. Of 15 not inducible at TEEPS, none had known SVT recurrence off medications at median follow-up of 27 months (6-37 months). In conclusion, among patients having SVT in early infancy, (1) TEEPS results are not associated with clinical variables, (2) non-inducibility is a good indicator of lack of clinical recurrence at intermediate follow-up, and (3) AVNRT may be more prevalent in infancy than previously reported.

UI  - 21483169
TI  - Statin treatment for patients with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation.
AB  - Recent clinical evidence and animal experiments support the belief that statins have beneficial effects on cardiovascular outcomes and prevention of atrial fibrillation (AF). We investigated whether the use of statins reduces the mortality, morbidity, and recurrence rate of AF in patients with paroxysmal AF. A post hoc analysis of the Japanese Rhythm Management Trial for Atrial Fibrillation (J-RHYTHM) study was conducted.Of the 823 patients with paroxysmal AF in the J-RHYTHM study, 101 (12.3%) were receiving a statin at baseline. Patients taking statins were older and more likely to have hypertension, dyslipidemia, coronary artery disease, and ischemic stroke compared to patients not taking statins. During a mean follow-up period of 19.3 months, 40 patients (5.5%) reached the primary endpoint (a composite of all-cause death, stroke, systemic embolism, major bleeding, and hospitalization for heart failure) and 140 patients (19.4%) experienced a recurrence of AF. Multivariate Cox proportional-hazard regression analysis revealed statin use was not associated with improved mortality and morbidity (hazard ratio [HR] 0.409, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.113-1.482), or a decreased risk of AF recurrence (HR 0.662, 95% CI 0.299-1.466).This analysis provides evidence that statin use did not affect clinical outcomes in patients with paroxysmal AF and emphasizes the need for randomized clinical trials defining more clearly the role of statins in treating AF.

UI  - 21477372
TI  - Practice nursed-based, individual and video-assisted patient education in oral anticoagulation--protocol of a cluster-randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Deutsches Register Klinischer Studien (German Clinical Trials Register): DRKS00000586Universal Trial Number (UTN U1111-1118-3464).

UI  - 21467664
TI  - Present status of anticoagulation treatment in Japanese patients with atrial fibrillation: a report from the J-RHYTHM Registry.
AB  - At present, warfarin is used extensively in patients with AF whose stroke risk is relatively low (ie, in Japan) and half of them had CHADS2 scores of 0 to 1 (UMIN Clinical Trials Registry UMIN000001569).

UI  - 21440143
TI  - Treatment of long-lasting persistent atrial fibrillation using minimally invasive surgery combined with irbesartan.
AB  - The video-assisted minimally invasive ablation procedure was safe and effective for patients with long-lasting persistent AF. Patients who were additionally treated with irbesartan had a significantly lower rate of AF recurrence than patients who were treated with ablation alone.

UI  - 21438804
TI  - Dabigatran for stroke prevention in atrial fibrillation: the RE-LY trial.
AB  - Oral anticoagulation is the mainstay of therapy for stroke prevention in patients with atrial fibrillation. Vitamin K antagonists such as warfarin reduce the risk of cardioembolic stroke by approximately two-thirds compared with no treatment, but are limited by their unpredictable anticoagulant effect and narrow therapeutic index. Warfarin therapy requires routine coagulation monitoring, which is inconvenient for patients and costly for the healthcare system. The limitations of the vitamin K agonists have spurred the development of new oral anticoagulants that selectively inhibit thrombin or factor Xa. The Randomized Evaluation of Long-Term Anticoagulation (RE-LY) trial of 18,113 patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation and at least one additional risk factor for stroke demonstrated that dabigatran etexilate given at a dose of 150 mg twice daily compared with warfarin, reduced the rate of stroke or systemic embolism by one-third with a similar rate of major bleeding, whereas dabigatran etexilate given at a dose of 110 mg twice daily compared with warfarin had a similar rate of stroke or systemic embolism and reduced the rate of major bleeding by one-fifth. Both doses of dabigatran etexilate reduced intracranial bleeding by approximately two-thirds compared with warfarin. Based on the results of the RE-LY trial, both the US FDA and Health Canada recently approved dabigatran etexilate for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation.

UI  - 21436594
TI  - Efficacy and safety of dabigatran vs. warfarin in patients with atrial fibrillation--sub-analysis in Japanese population in RE-LY trial.
AB  - In RE-LY, the efficacy and safety profiles of dabigatran for Japanese AF patients at high risk of stroke were essentially the same as for the study population overall.

UI  - 21388310
TI  - Irbesartan in patients with atrial fibrillation.
AB  - Irbesartan did not reduce cardiovascular events in patients with atrial fibrillation. (Funded by Bristol-Myers Squibb and Sanofi-Aventis; ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00249795.).

UI  - 21386067
TI  - Impact of a depression care management program for hospitalized cardiac patients.
AB  - Among patients with a broad range of cardiac diagnoses, a collaborative care depression management program initiated during hospitalization led to significant improvements in multiple clinically important mental health outcomes and had promising effects on relevant medical outcomes after intervention. Clinical Trial Registration- URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00847132.

UI  - 21362312
TI  - Evaluation of the traditional Chinese Medicine Shensongyangxin capsule on treating premature ventricular contractions: a randomized, double-blind, controlled multicenter trial.
AB  - Compared with placebo or mexiletine, SSYX capsules have significant therapeutic efficacy in reducing PVCs numbers and alleviate PVCs-related symptoms.

UI  - 21336617
TI  - Post-ATHENA and beyond.
AB  - Dronedarone, an amiodarone analog, was developed to be a safer alternative to amiodarone. Dronedarone is useful in suppressing atrial fibrillation/flutter and controlling the ventricular response. Dronedarone reduced cardiovascular hospitalization in the ATHENA trial (A placebo-controlled, double-blind, parallel arm Trial to assess the efficacy of dronedarone 400 mg bid for the prevention of cardiovascular Hospitalization or death from any cause in patiENts with Atrial fibrillation/atrial flutter). This paper reviews the results of ATHENA, including subsequent sub-analyses of the trial. These results raise the hypothesis that many of the benefits noted from this trial may be secondary to more than the antiarrhythmic properties of dronedarone. Future studies will clarify the mechanisms of this beneficial effect.

UI  - 21335482
TI  - Effect of telmisartan and ramipril on atrial fibrillation recurrence and severity in hypertensive patients with metabolic syndrome and recurrent symptomatic paroxysmal and persistent atrial fibrillation.
AB  - This study evaluated the effect of telmisartan, ramipril, and amlodipine on atrial fibrillation (AF) recurrence and severity in hypertensive patients with metabolic syndrome. A total of 391 hypertensive outpatients with metabolic syndrome, in sinus rhythm but with at least 2 episodes of AF in the previous 6 months were randomized to telmisartan, ramipril, or amlodipine for 1 year. At the first AF, ventricular rate (VR) and plasma cardiac troponin I (TnI) were evaluated. P-wave dispersion (PWD) and procollagen type I carboxy-terminal peptide (PIP) were evaluated before and after 12 months of treatment. Systolic blood pressure (SBP) and diastolic blood pressure (DBP) were similarly and significantly reduced by all treatments (P < .001). In all, 49% of patients treated with amlodipine had a recurrence of AF as did 25.5% of patients with ramipril and 12.9% of patients with telmisartan (P < .01 vs amlodipine and P < .05 vs ramipril). Ventricular rate and TnI at the first AF recurrence were significantly lower with telmisartan and ramipril than with amlodipine. P-wave dispersion was reduced by ramipril (-5.1 ms, P < .05) and even more by telmisartan (-11 ms, P < .01). Telmisartan and ramipril induced a similar PIP reduction (-52.8 and -49.8 g/L, respectively, P < .01). These findings suggested that in these patients telmisartan was more effective than ramipril in reducing AF recurrence and severity as well as in improving PWD, despite a similar BP reduction and a similar improvement in cardiac fibrosis. This could be related to a specific effect of telmisartan on atrial electric remodeling.

UI  - 21318609
TI  - Disparities in management of new-onset atrial fibrillation in the emergency department despite adherence to the current guidelines: data from a large metropolitan area.
AB  - Atrial Fibrillation management is still a matter for debate. Past research has largely been based on the outpatient setting in which patients are followed during ambulatory visits. Very little data exist on the optimal management of AF in the Emergency Department (ED). This study investigated which factors drive different AF treatments in the ED, describing their use in different hospitals. Finally, the efficacy of different strategies in terms of cardioversion in the ED was analyzed. Charts of patients treated for atrial fibrillation (AF) were collected in 6 EDs in a large metropolitan area over a 24-consecutive month period and were reviewed and analysed. Demographics, comorbidities, treatment strategy and ED outcome were collected. Inclusion criteria were symptom onset <3 weeks and stable hemodynamic conditions at presentation. A propensity score was used to adjust for baseline clinical characteristics and to compare the efficacy of different treatments. 3,085 patients were included in the analysis. Variables associated with a rhythm control strategy were onset of symptoms <48 h, age, dyspnea, palpitations, renal failure and the presence of a mechanical valve. Different EDs applied different strategies in terms of drugs used and the electrocardioversion rate, showing heterogeneity in AF management. Adjusting for the propensity score, electrocardioversion and antidysrhythmic drugs of class Ic were more effective than a wait-and-watch strategy in the ED. Despite international guidelines being respected, AF management is heterogeneous in different ED settings. A rhythm control strategy with electrocardioversion and Class Ic drugs is more effective than a wait-and watch approach during the ED visit. Further research, toward an evidence-based approach to the emergent management of AF in the ED, is still needed.

UI  - 21315217
TI  - Effects of n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids on malignant ventricular arrhythmias in patients with chronic heart failure and implantable cardioverter-defibrillators: A substudy of the Gruppo Italiano per lo Studio della Sopravvivenza nell'Insufficienza Cardiaca (GISSI-HF) trial.
AB  - The results of this study, though not statistically significant, support prior evidences of an antiarrhythmic effect of n-3PUFA in patients with ICD, although they leave open the issue of whether this effect leads to a survival benefit.

UI  - 21309657
TI  - Apixaban in patients with atrial fibrillation.
AB  - In patients with atrial fibrillation for whom vitamin K antagonist therapy was unsuitable, apixaban reduced the risk of stroke or systemic embolism without significantly increasing the risk of major bleeding or intracranial hemorrhage. (Funded by Bristol-Myers Squibb and Pfizer; ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00496769.).

UI  - 21308791
TI  - One-year cholesterol lowering treatment reduces medial temporal lobe atrophy and memory decline in stroke-free elderly with atrial fibrillation: evidence from a parallel group randomized trial.
AB  - In spite of limitations due to small sample size, our data suggest that intensive cholesterol lowering therapy in AF patients may slow cognitive decline and atrophy of the MTL. Though these results have to be replicated in a larger sample, they offer potential for future interventions.

UI  - 21296333
TI  - Rhythm- and rate-controlling effects of dronedarone in patients with atrial fibrillation (from the ATHENA trial).
AB  - Dronedarone is a multi-channel-blocking drug for the treatment of patients with atrial fibrillation (AF) or atrial flutter (AFL) with rate- and rhythm-controlling properties. A Placebo-Controlled, Double-Blind, Parallel Arm Trial to Assess the Efficacy of Dronedarone 400 mg b.i.d. for the Prevention of Cardiovascular Hospitalization or Death from Any Cause in Patients With Atrial Fibrillation/Atrial Flutter (ATHENA) demonstrated that dronedarone reduced the risk for first cardiovascular hospitalization or death from any cause. The aim of this post hoc analysis was to evaluate the rhythm- and rate-controlling properties of dronedarone in the ATHENA trial. Patients were randomized to dronedarone 400 mg twice daily (n = 2,301) or placebo (n = 2,327). Electrocardiographic tracings were classified for AF or AFL or sinus rhythm. Patients with AF or AFL on every postbaseline electrocardiogram were classified as having permanent AF or AFL. All electrical cardioversions were documented. The use of rate-controlling medications was equally distributed in the 2 treatment groups. The median time to first AF or AFL recurrence of patients in sinus rhythm at baseline was 498 days in placebo patients and 737 days in dronedarone patients (hazard ratio 0.749, 95% confidence interval 0.681 to 0.824, p <0.001). In the dronedarone group, 339 patients (15%) had 1 electrical cardioversion, compared to 481 (21%) in the placebo group (hazard ratio 0.684, 95% confidence interval 0.596 to 0.786, p <0.001). The likelihood of permanent AF or AFL was lower with dronedarone (178 patients [7.6%]) compared to placebo (295 patients [12.8%]) (p <0.001). At the time of first AF or AFL recurrence, the mean heart rates were 85.3 and 95.5 beats/min in the dronedarone and placebo groups, respectively (p <0.001). In conclusion, dronedarone demonstrated both rhythm- and rate-controlling properties in ATHENA. These effects are likely to contribute to the reduction of important clinical outcomes observed in this trial.

UI  - 21288278
TI  - Effects of dronedarone on clinical outcomes in patients with lone atrial fibrillation: pooled post hoc analysis from the ATHENA/EURIDIS/ADONIS studies.
AB  - According to this post hoc analysis, patients with lone AF have a high risk for cardiovascular hospitalization within 1 year. Dronedarone when added to standard of care reduces the risk of cardiovascular hospitalizations in this population.

UI  - 21252013
TI  - Final results of a phase IIa, randomised, open-label trial to evaluate the percutaneous intramyocardial transplantation of autologous skeletal myoblasts in congestive heart failure patients: the SEISMIC trial.
AB  - These data indicate that implantation of myoblasts in patients with HF is feasible, appears to be safe and may provide symptomatic relief, though no significant effect was detected on global LVEF.

UI  - 21232669
TI  - A randomized active-controlled study comparing the efficacy and safety of vernakalant to amiodarone in recent-onset atrial fibrillation.
AB  - Vernakalant demonstrated efficacy superior to amiodarone for acute conversion of recent-onset AF. Both vernakalant and amiodarone were safe and well tolerated in this study. (A Phase III Superiority Study of Vernakalant vs Amiodarone in Subjects With Recent Onset Atrial Fibrillation [AVRO]; NCT00668759).

UI  - 21220052
TI  - Strategic lessons from the clinical event classification process for the Assessment of Pexelizumab in Acute Myocardial Infarction (APEX-AMI) trial.
AB  - A complementary approach of a computerized assessment and physician review was used in the CEC effort of the APEX-AMI trial. The algorithm categorized approximately one third of suspected CHF/cardiogenic shock events. The APEX-AMI CEC experience shows that an algorithmic approach may be a useful strategy for end point evaluation but requires validation.

UI  - 21215227
TI  - [A comparative study on the efficacy and safety of intravenous esmolol, amiodarone and diltiazem for controlling rapid ventricular rate of patients with atrial fibrillation during anesthesia period].
AB  - Intravenous esmolol, amiodarone and diltiazem are all equally effective and safe on controlling rapid ventricular rate in patients with atrial fibrillation during the anesthesia period. Esmolol use is associated with the shortest mean reacting time and amiodarone use is associated with the lowest total side effect rate in this patient cohort.

UI  - 21214105
TI  - The effect of amiodarone on cardiac rhythm after cardiopulmonary bypass in patients with atrial fibrillation.
AB  - Amiodarone had a good effect on cardiac recovery and the rhythm of AF patients after CPB.

UI  - 21178289
TI  - Comparison of QT/RR relation based on a 15-s averaged ECG and a single beat ECG during atrial fibrillation.
AB  - The QT interval after sinus restoration could be estimated better using QT/RR-average than using QT/RR-single during AF.

UI  - 21175515
TI  - Vernakalant hydrochloride: A novel atrial-selective agent for the cardioversion of recent-onset atrial fibrillation in the emergency department.
AB  - Vernakalant rapidly converted recent-onset AF to sinus rhythm in over half of patients, was well tolerated, and has the potential to offer an important therapeutic option for rhythm control of recent-onset AF in the ED.

UI  - 21172721
TI  - Oral direct thrombin inhibitor AZD0837 for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation: a Phase II study of AZD0837 in patients who are appropriate for but unable or unwilling to take vitamin K antagonist therapy.
AB  - AZD0837 had a good safety profile during this study, including a low incidence of bleeding events, with effective anticoagulation on pharmacodynamic parameters. A larger study in AF patients unable or unwilling to take warfarin is feasible, as judged by compliance and dropout rates.

UI  - 21148662
TI  - Randomized trial of angiotensin II-receptor blocker vs. dihydropiridine calcium channel blocker in the treatment of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation with hypertension (J-RHYTHM II study).
AB  - In patients with paroxysmal AF and hypertension, treatment of hypertension by candesartan did not have an advantage over amlodipine in the reduction in the frequency of paroxysmal AF (umin CTR C000000427).

UI  - 21148442
TI  - Cost efficiency of anticoagulation with warfarin to prevent stroke in medicare beneficiaries with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation.
AB  - these results indicate that 41.5% of Medicare patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation are not anticoagulated with warfarin. The incidence of stroke and overall medical costs were significantly lower in patients treated with warfarin.

UI  - 21147728
TI  - Dabigatran and warfarin in vitamin K antagonist-naive and -experienced cohorts with atrial fibrillation.
AB  - http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00262600.

UI  - 21136011
TI  - Safety of edoxaban, an oral factor Xa inhibitor, in Asian patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation.
AB  - Edoxaban is an oral, reversible, direct factor Xa inhibitor in phase III clinical development for the prevention of stroke in atrial fibrillation (AF). A phase II study was undertaken to evaluate the safety and efficacy of edoxaban in Asian patients with non-valvular AF with CHADS2 score 1. In a multicentre, active-controlled, double-blind edoxaban and open-label warfarin, parallel-group study, a total of 235 patients from four Asian countries were randomly assigned to edoxaban 30 mg qd, 60 mg qd or warfarin dose adjusted to international normalised ratio of 2-3 for three months. The primary endpoint was the incidence of centrally adjudicated all bleeding events (major, clinically relevant non-major and minor). Secondary endpoints included thromboembolic events, biomarkers of thrombus formation and all adverse events (AEs). The incidence of all bleeding events (95% CI) was 20.3% (12.9, 30.4) for edoxaban 30 mg, 23.8% (15.8, 34.1) for edoxaban 60 mg, and 29.3% (20.2, 40.4) for warfarin. A subgroup analysis suggested low body weight (60 kg) may affect the incidence of bleeding events with edoxaban. The incidence of study drug-related AEs was 22% for edoxaban 30 mg, 29% for edoxaban 60 mg and 33% for warfarin. No thromboembolic events occurred in any treatment group. In conclusion, this phase II study found a trend for a reduction in the incidence of all bleeding events in Asian AF patients with edoxaban 30 mg and 60 mg compared with warfarin. Adverse events were similar between the edoxaban 60-mg and warfarin groups and were lower with the edoxaban 30-mg group.

UI  - 21129991
TI  - Left atrial wall tension directly affects the restoration of sinus rhythm after Maze procedure.
AB  - An aggressive approach to reduce LA wall tension significantly improves restoration of sinus rhythm after the Maze procedure. LA wall tension directly affects sinus conversion. Further studies using pharmacologic intervention to reduce LA wall tension for maintenance of sinus rhythm need to be evaluated.

UI  - 21111555
TI  - Comparative validation of a novel risk score for predicting bleeding risk in anticoagulated patients with atrial fibrillation: the HAS-BLED (Hypertension, Abnormal Renal/Liver Function, Stroke, Bleeding History or Predisposition, Labile INR, Elderly, Drugs/Alcohol Concomitantly) score.
AB  - This analysis identifies diabetes and heart failure or left ventricular dysfunction as potential risk factors for bleeding in AF beyond those previously recognized. Of the contemporary bleeding risk stratification schemas, the new HAS-BLED scheme offers useful predictive capacity for bleeding over previously published schemas and may be simpler to apply.

UI  - 21094362
TI  - Effect of combined spironolactone--blocker  enalapril treatment on occurrence of symptomatic atrial fibrillation episodes in patients with a history of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation (SPIR-AF study).
AB  - Angiotensin II and aldosterone are key factors responsible for the structural and neurohormonal remodeling of the atria and ventricles in patients with atrial fibrillation (AF). The aim of the present study was to evaluate the antiarrhythmic effects of spironolactone compared to angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors in patients with recurrent AF. A cohort of 164 consecutive patients (mean age 66 years, 87 men), with an average 4-year history of recurrent AF episodes, was enrolled in a prospective, randomized, 12-month trial with 4 treatment arms: group A, spironolactone, enalapril, and a  blocker; group B, spironolactone and a  blocker; group C, enalapril plus a  blocker; and group D, a  blocker alone. The primary end point of the trial was the presence of symptomatic AF episodes documented on the electrocardiogram. At 3-, 6-, 9-, and 12 months, a significant (p < 0.001) reduction had occurred in the incidence of AF episodes in both spironolactone-treated groups (group A, spironolactone, enalapril, and a  blocker; and group B, spironolactone plus a  blocker) compared to the incidence in patients treated with enalapril and a  blocker (group C) or a  blocker alone (group D). No significant difference was seen in AF recurrences between patients taking spironolactone and a  blocker with (group A) and without (group B) enalapril. No significant differences were found in the systolic or diastolic blood pressure or heart rate among the groups before and after 1 year of follow-up. In conclusion, combined spironolactone plus -blocker treatment might be a simple and valuable option in preventing AF episodes in patients with normal left ventricular function and a history of refractory paroxysmal AF.

UI  - 21078810
TI  - Efficacy and safety of prescription omega-3 fatty acids for the prevention of recurrent symptomatic atrial fibrillation: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00402363.

UI  - 21059484
TI  - Dabigatran compared with warfarin in patients with atrial fibrillation and previous transient ischaemic attack or stroke: a subgroup analysis of the RE-LY trial.
AB  - Boehringer Ingelheim.

UI  - 21055277
TI  - [Effects of carvedilol and metoprolol on expression of autoantibodies against cardiac adrenergic receptors in aged patients with chronic heart failure and ventricular arrhythmia].
AB  - Carvedilol is superior to metoprolol on decreasing the incidence of VA in aged patients with chronic heart failure and ventricular arrhythmia.

UI  - 21029824
TI  - Usefulness of vernakalant hydrochloride injection for rapid conversion of atrial fibrillation.
AB  - The objective of the present study was to assess the safety and effectiveness of vernakalant hydrochloride injection (RSD1235), a novel antiarrhythmic drug, for the conversion of atrial fibrillation (AF) or atrial flutter to sinus rhythm (SR). Patients with either AF or atrial flutter were randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive vernakalant (n = 138) or placebo (n = 138) and were stratified by an arrhythmia duration of >3 hours to 7 days (short duration) and 8 to 45 days (long duration). The first infusion of placebo or vernakalant (3 mg/kg) was given for 10 minutes followed by a second infusion of placebo or vernakalant (2 mg/kg) 15 minutes later if the arrhythmia had not terminated. A total of 265 patients were randomized and received treatment. The primary end point was conversion of AF to SR for 1 minute within 90 minutes of the start of the drug infusion in the short-duration AF group. Of the 86 patients receiving vernakalant in the short-duration AF group, 44 (51.2%) demonstrated conversion to SR compared to 3 (3.6%) of the 84 in the placebo group (p <0.0001). The median interval to conversion of short-duration AF to SR in the responders given vernakalant was 8 minutes. Of the entire AF population (short- and long-duration AF), 47 (39.8%) of the 118 vernakalant patients experienced conversion of AF to SR compared to 4 (3.3%) of the 121 placebo patients (p <0.0001). Transient dysgeusia and sneezing were the most common adverse events in the vernakalant patients. One vernakalant patient who had severe aortic stenosis experienced hypotension and ventricular fibrillation and died. In conclusion, vernakalant demonstrated a rapid and high rate of conversion for short-duration AF and was well tolerated.

UI  - 20979470
TI  - Effects of CYP2C19 genotype on outcomes of clopidogrel treatment.
AB  - Among patients with acute coronary syndromes or atrial fibrillation, the effect of clopidogrel as compared with placebo is consistent, irrespective of CYP2C19 loss-of-function carrier status. (Funded by Sanofi-Aventis and Bristol-Myers Squibb; ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00249873.).

UI  - 20966417
TI  - Identifying patients at high risk for stroke despite anticoagulation: a comparison of contemporary stroke risk stratification schemes in an anticoagulated atrial fibrillation cohort.
AB  - Coronary artery disease and smoking are additional risk factors for TE in anticoagulated AF patients, whereas alcohol use appears protective. Of the contemporary stroke RSS, the CHADS-VASc scheme correctly identified the greatest proportion of AF patients at high risk, despite the similar predictive ability of most RSS evidenced by the c-statistic.

UI  - 20961244
TI  - Effect of home testing of international normalized ratio on clinical events.
AB  - As compared with monthly high-quality clinic testing, weekly self-testing did not delay the time to a first stroke, major bleeding episode, or death to the extent suggested by prior studies. These results do not support the superiority of self-testing over clinic testing in reducing the risk of stroke, major bleeding episode, and death among patients taking warfarin therapy. (Funded by the Department of Veterans Affairs Cooperative Studies Program; ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00032591.).

UI  - 20959565
TI  - Warfarin discontinuation after starting warfarin for atrial fibrillation.
AB  - More than 1 in 4 patients newly starting warfarin for atrial fibrillation discontinued therapy in the first year despite a low overall hemorrhage rate. Individuals deriving potentially less benefit from warfarin, including those with younger age, fewer stroke risk factors, and poorer INR control, were less likely to remain on warfarin. Maximizing the benefits of anticoagulation for atrial fibrillation depends on determining which patients are most appropriately initiated and maintained on therapy.

UI  - 20951321
TI  - Prevention of atrial fibrillation recurrence with corticosteroids after radiofrequency catheter ablation: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Transient use of small amounts of corticosteroids shortly after AF ablation may be effective and safe for preventing not only immediate AF recurrences but also AF recurrences during the mid-term follow-up period after PVI.

UI  - 20937532
TI  - Influence of leukotriene biosynthesis inhibition on heart rate in patients with atrial fibrillation.
AB  - 

UI  - 20934556
TI  - Evaluation of the novel factor Xa inhibitor edoxaban compared with warfarin in patients with atrial fibrillation: design and rationale for the Effective aNticoaGulation with factor xA next GEneration in Atrial Fibrillation-Thrombolysis In Myocardial Infarction study 48 (ENGAGE AF-TIMI 48).
AB  - ENGAGE AF-TIMI 48 is a phase 3 comparison of the novel oral factor Xa inhibitor edoxaban to warfarin for the prevention of thromboembolism in patients with atrial fibrillation.

UI  - 20877128
TI  - Report from J-PULSE multicenter registry of patients with shock-resistant out-of-hospital cardiac arrest treated with nifekalant hydrochloride.
AB  - Intravenous administration of NIF seems to be feasible as a potential therapy for advanced cardiac life-support in patients with out-of-hospital VF, and therefore further study is warranted.

UI  - 20864213
TI  - Variation in management of recent-onset atrial fibrillation and flutter among academic hospital emergency departments.
AB  - We demonstrated a high degree of variation in management approaches for recent-onset atrial fibrillation and flutter patients treated in academic hospital EDs. Individual hospital site, age, previous cardioversion, and associated heart failure were independent predictors for the use of rhythm control.

UI  - 20825922
TI  - Management of patients with acute atrial fibrillation in the ED.
AB  - Flecainide and propafenone achieve rhythm control in a higher proportion of patients as compared with amiodarone within a 6-hour management.

UI  - 20819537
TI  - Nifekalant hydrochloride terminating sustained ventricular tachycardia accompanied with QT dispersion prolongation.
AB  - More administration of NIF indicates higher terminating rate of VT and more QTd prolongation. However, the safety is acceptable if several important issues were noticed in using NIF, such as serum potassium concentration, stopping side-effect related agents, and carefully observing clinical responses.

UI  - 20723644
TI  - Effect of high doses of magnesium on converting ibutilide to a safe and more effective agent.
AB  - Ibutilide is a class III antiarrhythmic agent indicated for cardioversion of atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter to sinus rhythm (SR). The most serious complication of ibutilide is torsades de pointes (TdP). Magnesium has been successfully used for the treatment of TdP, but its use as a prophylactic agent for this arrhythmia has not yet been established. The present study investigated whether high dose of magnesium would increase the safety and efficacy of ibutilide administration. A total of 476 patients with atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter who were candidates for conversion to SR were divided into 2 groups. Group A consisted of 229 patients who received ibutilide to convert atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter to SR. Group B consisted of 247 patients who received an intravenous infusion of 5 g of magnesium sulfate for 1 hour followed by the administration of ibutilide. Then, another 5 g of magnesium were infused for 2 additional hours. Of the patients in groups A and B, 154 (67.3%) and 189 (76.5%), respectively, were converted to SR (p = 0.033). Ventricular arrhythmias (sustained, nonsustained ventricular tachycardia, and TdP) occurred significantly more often in group A than in group B (7.4% vs 1.2%, respectively, p = 0.002). TdP developed in 8 patients (3.5%) in group A and in none (0%) in group B (p = 0.009). The administration of magnesium (despite the high doses used) was well tolerated. In conclusion, the administration of high doses of magnesium probably makes ibutilide a much safer agent, and magnesium increased the conversion efficacy of ibutilide.

UI  - 20714158
TI  - Symptomatic hemorrhagic transformation and its predictors in acute ischemic stroke with atrial fibrillation.
AB  - Caution is needed in anticoagulation treatment of acute cardioembolic stroke patients with a large infarct, previous hemorrhagic stroke, low platelet count, or a high hsCRP level.

UI  - 20694273
TI  - Randomised, parallel-group, multicentre, multinational phase 2 study comparing edoxaban, an oral factor Xa inhibitor, with warfarin for stroke prevention in patients with atrial fibrillation.
AB  - The primary objective of this study was to compare the safety of four fixed-dose regimens of edoxaban with warfarin in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation (AF). In this 12-week, parallel-group, multicentre, multinational study, 1,146 patients with AF and risk of stroke were randomised to edoxaban 30 mg qd, 30 mg bid, 60 mg qd, or 60 mg bid or warfarin dose-adjusted to a target international normalised ratio of 2.0-3.0. The study was double-blind to edoxaban dose, but open-label to warfarin. Primary outcomes were occurrence of major and/or clinically relevant non-major bleeding and elevated hepatic enzymes and/or bilirubin. Mean age was 65 +/- 8.7 years and 64.4% were warfarin-nave. Whereas major plus clinically relevant non-major bleeding occurred in 3.2% of patients randomised to warfarin, the incidence of bleeding was significantly higher with the edoxaban 60 mg bid (10.6%; p=0.002) and 30 mg bid regimens (7.8%; p=0.029), but not with the edoxaban 60 mg qd (3.8%) or 30 mg qd regimens (3.0%). For the same total daily dose of 60 mg, both bleeding frequency and trough edoxaban concentrations were higher in the 30-mg bid group than in the 60-mg qd group. There were no significant differences in hepatic enzyme elevations or bilirubin values among the groups. The safety profiles of edoxaban 30 and 60 mg qd in patients with AF were similar to warfarin. In contrast, the edoxaban bid regimens were associated with more bleeding than warfarin. These results suggest that in this three-month study, edoxaban 30 or 60 mg qd are safe and well-tolerated.

UI  - 20693799
TI  - QT prolongation and serum sotalol concentration are highly correlated following intravenous and oral sotalol.
AB  - A strong correlation was observed between serum sotalol concentration and QTc prolongation across the entire concentration range. Low-dose sotalol caused significant QT prolongation. At similar concentrations, intravenous and oral sotalol caused similar QT and QTc effects. Knowing the QT effect can be used to guide further dose increase.

UI  - 20685676
TI  - Mortality predictors and effects of antithrombotic therapies in atrial fibrillation: insights from ACTIVE-W.
AB  - Non-fatal strokes increased mortality in ACTIVE-W, but non-disabling strokes did not. Among major bleeding events, only those also classified as severe increased mortality. Future research should emphasize the prevention of disabling strokes and severe bleeds and place less emphasis on non-disabling stroke or major bleeds that are not severe.

UI  - 20668354
TI  - Combination of irbesartan and amiodarone to maintain sinus rhythm in patients with persistent atrial fibrillation after rheumatic valve replacement.
AB  - In patients with post-rheumatic valve replacement, the combination of amiodarone and irbesartan demonstrated a lower rate of AF recurrence after cardioversion than amiodarone alone, which might be due to preventing the atrial remodeling.

UI  - 20644019
TI  - Relationship between nonsustained ventricular tachycardia after non-ST-elevation acute coronary syndrome and sudden cardiac death: observations from the metabolic efficiency with ranolazine for less ischemia in non-ST-elevation acute coronary syndrome-thrombolysis in myocardial infarction 36 (MERLIN-TIMI 36) randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Nonsustained VT is common after admission for non-ST-elevation acute coronary syndrome, and even short episodes of VT lasting 4 to 7 beats are independently associated with the risk of SCD over the subsequent year. Clinical Trial Registration- URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00099788.

UI  - 20642544
TI  - Eltrombopag does not affect cardiac repolarization: results from a definitive QTc study in healthy subjects.
AB  - No clinically significant QT(c) prolongation was observed for eltrombopag at therapeutic and supratherapeutic doses.

UI  - 20635581
TI  - Electrophysiological effects, efficacy and safety of intravenous propafenone in termination of atrioventricular nodal reentrant tachycardia and atrioventricular reentrant tachycardia: a prospective non-randomized interventional study.
AB  - The aim of this prospective, non-randomized interventional study was to assess electrophysiological effects, efficacy and safety of intravenous propafenone in termination of atrioventricular nodal reentrant tachycardia (AVNRT) and orthodromic atrioventricular reentrant tachycardia (AVRT). This single-center study was carried out at Department of Cardiology, Sestre milosrdnice University Hospital in Zagreb, Croatia, between January 1, 2005 and December 31, 2006. Eligibility requirements were fulfilled by a total of 70 patients with AVNRT (n=37) and AVRT (n=33). The intervention consisted of the electrophysiological study aimed at inducing tachycardia, followed by intravenous administration of 2 mg/kg propafenone in both groups. The main outcome measures were safety and efficacy of 2 mg/kg intravenous propafenone in tachycardia termination and re-induction. Out of 37 patients with AVNRT, propafenone managed to terminate it in 28 (75.7%) patients, while tachycardia was not inducible in 25 (67.56%) patients. Out of 33 patients with AVRT, propafenone managed to terminate AVRT in 29 (87.9%) patients, while tachycardia was not inducible in 22 (66.66%) patients. The overall propafenone efficacy in tachycardia termination was 81.42%. No propafenone-related adverse effects were recorded during the study period. Propafenone was found to be a safe and effective anti-arrhythmic drug and can be justifiably administered for AVNRT and AVRT termination. It could be considered as an alternative to adenosine and verapamil.

UI  - 20631453
TI  - Prospective comparative study of intravenous cibenzoline and disopyramide therapy in the treatment of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation after cardiovascular surgery.
AB  - The efficacy of iv cibenzoline for the termination of postoperative paroxysmal AF was significantly better than that of disopyramide, especially in patients with pre-administration of oral beta-adrenergic blockers and those with smaller left atrium.

UI  - 20625396
TI  - Beta1-adrenoceptor polymorphism predicts flecainide action in patients with atrial fibrillation.
AB  - The beta(1)AR Arg389Arg genotype is associated with increased flecainide potency and higher heart rate during atrial fibrillation. The Arg389Gly-Ser49Gly genotype might be of predictive value for atrial fibrillation.

UI  - 20622475
TI  - Statin for prevention of atrial fibrillation after off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting in Japanese patients.
AB  - Preoperative statin significantly reduces the incidence of AF after elective isolated off-pump CABG in Japanese patients.

UI  - 20620233
TI  - Optimizing catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia therapy in calsequestrin-mutant mice.
AB  - Verapamil is highly effective against catecholamine-induced arrhythmia in mice with CASQ2 mutations and may potentiate the antiarrhythmic activity of -blockers in humans with CPVT2.

UI  - 20587052
TI  - Fructose-1, 6-diphosphate (FDP) as a novel antidote for yellow oleander-induced cardiac toxicity: a randomized controlled double blind study.
AB  - Current Controlled trial ISRCTN71018309.

UI  - 20569725
TI  - A multicenter, open-label study of vernakalant for the conversion of atrial fibrillation to sinus rhythm.
AB  - Vernakalant rapidly converted recent-onset AF to SR, was well tolerated, and may be a valuable therapeutic alternative for reestablishing SR in patients with recent-onset AF.

UI  - 20546155
TI  - Comparison of surgical cut and sew versus radiofrequency pulmonary veins isolation for chronic permanent atrial fibrillation: a randomized study.
AB  - PVI by SURG formed more effective block lines than RF. SR at hospital discharge was similar among the groups, but more amiodarone was used in RF. During follow-up, incidence of recurrent AF was higher in the RF group.

UI  - 20538128
TI  - Impact of lipid-lowering therapy on outcomes in atrial fibrillation.
AB  - Lipid-lowering therapy (LLT) decreases mortality in select patient populations. LLT has also been shown to have antiarrhythmic effects, thus favorably influencing the incidence and recurrence of atrial fibrillation (AF). However, data are lacking regarding the effect of LLT on mortality in patients with AF. The Atrial Fibrillation Follow-up Investigation of Rhythm Management (AFFIRM) study was the one of the largest multicenter trials comprising of 4,060 patients with AF at high risk for stroke and death. This is a post hoc analysis of the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute limited-access dataset of AFFIRM patients who were on LLT at the time of randomization (n = 913). The control group consisted of AFFIRM patients who were not on LLT (n = 3,147). Cox proportional hazards analysis was performed controlling for baseline differences. The end point was all-cause mortality, cardiovascular mortality, and ischemic stroke. A separate analysis was carried out for the combined end point of death, ventricular tachycardia, ventricular fibrillation, cardiac arrest, ischemic stroke, major bleeding, systemic embolism, pulmonary embolism, and myocardial infarction. Patients on LLT were younger and on more cardioactive medications but also had more cardiovascular morbidities. On multivariate analysis, LLT use was associated with lower all-cause mortality (hazard ratio [HR] 0.77, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.62 to 0.95, p = 0.01), cardiovascular mortality (HR 0.71, 95% CI 0.53 to 0.95, p = 0.02), ischemic stroke (HR 0.56, 95% CI 0.36 to 0.89, p = 0.01), and combined end point (HR 0.81, 95% CI 0.69 to 0.96, p = 0.01). In conclusion, a decrease in mortality and adverse cardiovascular events was observed using LLT in AF.

UI  - 20487528
TI  - TRial of an Educational intervention on patients' knowledge of Atrial fibrillation and anticoagulant therapy, INR control, and outcome of Treatment with warfarin (TREAT).
AB  - ISRCTN93952605.

UI  - 20473735
TI  - Effects of combined therapy of Xuezhikang Capsule and Valsartan on hypertensive left ventricular hypertrophy and heart rate turbulence.
AB  - Combined therapy with XZK and Valsartan can improve hypertensive LVH and HRT parameters, and lessen the damage on the autonomous nervous system.

UI  - 20459399
TI  - [Effect of beta-adrenoblockers on remodeling of myocardium and adhesive function of endothelium in patients with ischemic heart disease, complicated with chronic heart failure and atrial fibrillation].
AB  - Carvedilol in long term therapy of CHF with AF exerts substantial influence on adhesive function of endothelium and improves hemodynamics.

UI  - 20455988
TI  - The effects of rate and rhythm control on blood pressure and antihypertensive drug usage in patients with atrial fibrillation and hypertension enrolled in the AFFIRM trial.
AB  - Our findings suggest that AF could be contributing to BP elevation in patients with a history of HTN and that a rhythm control strategy might result in a decrease in BP in these patients. This hypothesis however, requires future testing.

UI  - 20436046
TI  - Dronedarone in patients with congestive heart failure: insights from ATHENA.
AB  - In this post-hoc analysis of ATHENA patients with AF and stable CHF, dronedarone did not increase mortality and showed a reduction of CV hospitalization or death similar to the overall population. However, in the light of the ANtiarrhythmic trial with DROnedarone in Moderate to severe CHF Evaluating morbidity DecreAse study, dronedarone should be contraindicated in patients with NYHA class IV or unstable NYHA classes II and III CHF.

UI  - 20430112
TI  - Antiarrhythmic use from 1991 to 2007: insights from the Canadian Registry of Atrial Fibrillation (CARAF I and II).
AB  - The management of AF has undergone significant shifts since 1990, reflecting the influence of drug development, prevailing belief systems, the impact of large clinical trials, and evidence-based recommendations. Monitoring of pharmacotherapy trends will provide insight into the real-world application of evidence-based guidelines as well as allow the opportunity to identify deficiencies and improve patient care.

UI  - 20429697
TI  - Prediction of drug-related morphological changes of the T wave.
AB  - Independent predictors of subsequent morphological changes were found at baseline and shortly after start of treatment, and may be of use to identify individuals with a reduced repolarization reserve.

UI  - 20406769
TI  - Atrial fibrillation management strategies and early mortality after myocardial infarction: results from the Valsartan in Acute Myocardial Infarction (VALIANT) Trial.
AB  - In patients with AF after an MI, an anti-arrhythmic drug-based rhythm control strategy is associated with excess 45-day mortality compared with a rate control strategy, but is not associated with increased mortality outside of the immediate peri-infarct period. These results potentially identify a patient population in whom the use of anti-arrhythmic drug therapy may portend an increased risk of death.

UI  - 20400005
TI  - Dose-dependent hemodynamic effects of propofol induction following brotizolam premedication in hypertensive patients taking angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors.
AB  - In patients chronically taking ACEIs, low doses of propofol reduce hemodynamic instability.

UI  - 20385507
TI  - Prognosis of atrial fibrillation in patients with symptomatic peripheral arterial disease: data from the REduction of Atherothrombosis for Continued Health (REACH) Registry.
AB  - AF is common in European patients with symptomatic PAD and is independently associated with a worse 2-year CV outcome.

UI  - 20384650
TI  - A short-term, randomized, double-blind, parallel-group study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of dronedarone versus amiodarone in patients with persistent atrial fibrillation: the DIONYSOS study.
AB  - In this short-term study, dronedarone was less effective than amiodarone in decreasing AF recurrence, but had a better safety profile, specifically with regard to thyroid and neurologic events and a lack of interaction with oral anticoagulants.

UI  - 20381665
TI  - Warfarin and aspirin use in atrial fibrillation among practicing cardiologist (from the AFFECTS Registry).
AB  - Among patients with atrial fibrillation (AF), the risk of thromboembolism is a significant concern. However, the reported use of warfarin among patients with AF at elevated risk of stroke remains low. In the present study, we have provided information on anticoagulation use reported during the recent Atrial Fibrillation: Focus on Effective Clinical Treatment Strategies (AFFECTS) Registry. Among patients identified by their physician at baseline to be at an increased risk of stroke, as determined from an assessment of the medical history, 74% received warfarin and 29% received aspirin. Post hoc analysis of warfarin use stratified by Congestive heart failure, Hypertension, Age, Diabetes, Stroke, (CHADS(2)) doubled score revealed that at the end of the study, warfarin use was 73% (155 of 213) and 66% (185 of 280) in the rate- and rhythm-control patients with a score of > or = 2, respectively, compared to 60% (183 of 306) and 49% (322 of 662) in the rate- and rhythm-control patients with a score of <2, respectively. The practicing cardiologists who participated in this registry initiated anticoagulation therapy in most of their patients with AF. However, warfarin use is not yet in line with the guidelines and evidence-based recommendations. Patients considered at no risk of stroke appear to have been overprescribed anticoagulant agents, and a considerable portion of high-risk patients did not receive warfarin. In conclusion, these results suggest that continued physician education of appropriate anticoagulation use in patients with AF is needed.

UI  - 20381664
TI  - Practice patterns among United States cardiologists for managing adults with atrial fibrillation (from the AFFECTS Registry).
AB  - The Atrial Fibrillation: Focus on Effective Clinical Treatment Strategies (AFFECTS) Registry was designed to examine atrial fibrillation (AF) treatment by United States cardiologists in the context of the American College of Cardiology, American Heart Association, and European Society of Cardiology guidelines after recent landmark clinical trials. Most patients in AFFECTS had AF without clinically significant structural heart disease or only uncomplicated hypertension. Among the all-enrolled population (n = 1,461), initial treatment strategies assigned were rhythm control in 64% and rate control in 36%. Among patients with either paroxysmal (n = 1,165) or persistent (n = 273) AF, 67% and 55%, respectively, were assigned rhythm control. The trend to assign rhythm control as the initial treatment goal decreased with age. In the rhythm-control group, most patients (74%) also received a rate-control agent during the registry, while 25% of those assigned to rate control received antiarrhythmic drugs. Most first prescriptions of antiarrhythmic drugs were for first-line therapy compliant with 2001 (76%) and 2006 (86%) guidelines. Most second prescriptions were for first-line therapies as well. Rates of serious adverse events were low. In conclusion, data from this study provide insight into community treatment patterns in patients with AF, most without clinically significant structural heart disease or with only uncomplicated hypertension.

UI  - 20381662
TI  - Differential effects of statins (pravastatin or simvastatin) on ventricular ectopic complexes: Galpha(i2), a possible molecular marker for ventricular irritability.
AB  - Retrospective studies suggest that statins might exert an antiarrhythmic effect on the heart. The mechanism of this effect is unclear. Parasympathetic stimulation of the heart has been shown to protect against ventricular arrhythmias. The goal of this study was to determine the effect of statins on ventricular arrhythmias and its correlation with changes in parasympathetic responsiveness and Galpha(i2) expression. Patients were randomized to pravastatin and simvastatin in a double-blind crossover design. Ventricular arrhythmias were determined by analysis of 24-hour Holter recordings. Spectral RR interval analysis of Holter studies determined peak high-frequency power fraction, which reflects parasympathetic modulation of heart rate. Expression of Galpha(i2), a molecular component of the parasympathetic response pathway, was determined by Western blots of patients' lymphocytes. Pravastatin treatment decreased the incidence of ventricular premature complexes by 22.5 + or - 3.4% (n = 20, p <0.05), couplets, and runs of 3 to 6 beats of nonsustained ventricular tachycardia from 9.8 + or - 2.67 to 3.9 + or - 1.25 events/patient/24 hours (n = 12, p <0.05). Pravastatin increased peak high-frequency fraction by 29.8 + or - 4.3% (n = 33, p <0.001), while Galpha(i2) expression increased by 51.3 + or - 22.5% (n = 21, p <0.05). Effects of simvastatin on ventricular premature complexes and nonsustained ventricular tachycardia were not significant. Relative changes in couplets and nonsustained ventricular tachycardia in pravastatin-treated patients correlated negatively with changes in Galpha(i2) and high-frequency fraction (rho = -0.588 and rho = -0.763, respectively, n = 12, p <0.05). In conclusion, these data suggest that pravastatin might decrease cardiac irritability via an increase in parasympathetic responsiveness and that changes in Galpha(i2) expression might serve as a molecular marker for this effect, which might play a role in the molecular mechanism of the antiarrhythmic effect of statins.

UI  - 20379004
TI  - Impact of drug alteration to maintain rhythm control in paroxysmal atrial fibrillation. - Subanalysis from J-RHYTHM study -.
AB  - The need to change AA was associated with physical/psychological disabilities that seemed not to be relieved simply by changing AAs, and this should be considered as a marker for refractory paroxysmal AF requiring other strategies.

UI  - 20356911
TI  - Intravenous infusion of n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids and inducibility of ventricular tachycardia in patients with implantable cardioverter defibrillator.
AB  - Intravenous n-3 PUFA tended to decrease VT inducibility, but a larger study is warranted.

UI  - 20354335
TI  - Importance of morphological changes in T-U waves during bepridil therapy as a predictor of ventricular arrhythmic event.
AB  - In patients with stable bepridil treatment, a change in T-U wave morphology might be a useful predictor of ventricular arrhythmia assisting the QT interval.

UI  - 20350992
TI  - Intravenous administration of flecainide or propafenone in patients with recent-onset atrial fibrillation does not predict adverse effects during 'pill-in-the-pocket' treatment.
AB  - The patient's tolerance of intravenous administration of flecainide or propafenone does not seem to predict adverse effects during out-of-hospital self-administration of these drugs.

UI  - 20339190
TI  - Efficacy of procainamide and lidocaine in terminating sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia.
AB  - Procainamide, the relatively older drug, was more effective than lidocaine in terminating SMVT associated with structural heart diseases. This is a retrospective analysis but can form the basis for formulating guidelines for initial management of SMVT.

UI  - 20235224
TI  - Physician stated atrial fibrillation management in light of treatment guidelines: data from an international, observational prospective survey.
AB  - These results highlight points of divergence from the American College of Cardiology (ACC)/ American Heart Association (AHA)/European Society of Cardiology (ESC) guidelines for the management of AF in terms of first-line drug selection in patients with associated SHD or coronary artery disease.

UI  - 20233976
TI  - Cognitive function and anticoagulation control in patients with atrial fibrillation.
AB  - Cognitive dysfunction is common in elderly patients with atrial fibrillation and is related to less effective anticoagulation and more vascular events. The MMSE identifies patients with atrial fibrillation in whom extra efforts are needed to maintain effective anticoagulation and improve outcomes. Clinical Trial Registration- URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00243178.

UI  - 20231232
TI  - Lenient versus strict rate control in patients with atrial fibrillation.
AB  - In patients with permanent atrial fibrillation, lenient rate control is as effective as strict rate control and is easier to achieve. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00392613.)

UI  - 20221975
TI  - [Health-related quality of life of patients with atrial fibrillation managed by cardiologists: MOVE study].
AB  - The great majority of AF patients had one or more recent AF symptoms, and their overall QoL was limited. In daily practise, rate control is not inferior to rhythm control in AF patients with respect to QoL.

UI  - 20211294
TI  - Rationale and design of AVERROES: apixaban versus acetylsalicylic acid to prevent stroke in atrial fibrillation patients who have failed or are unsuitable for vitamin K antagonist treatment.
AB  - By evaluating the use of apixaban as a replacement for ASA in AF patients who are not treated with a VKA, the AVERROES study is addressing an important unmet clinical need. The results of AVERROES will be complementary to those of a parallel noninferiority trial comparing apixaban with VKA therapy in patients with AF who are able to receive a VKA.

UI  - 20211293
TI  - Rivaroxaban-once daily, oral, direct factor Xa inhibition compared with vitamin K antagonism for prevention of stroke and Embolism Trial in Atrial Fibrillation: rationale and design of the ROCKET AF study.
AB  - The ROCKET AF study will determine the efficacy and safety of rivaroxaban as an alternative to warfarin for the prevention of thromboembolism in patients with AF.

UI  - 20211292
TI  - Apixaban for reduction in stroke and other ThromboemboLic events in atrial fibrillation (ARISTOTLE) trial: design and rationale.
AB  - Atrial fibrillation (AF) is associated with increased risk of stroke that can be attenuated with vitamin K antagonists (VKAs). Vitamin K antagonist use is limited, in part, by the high incidence of complications when patients' international normalized ratios (INRs) deviate from the target range. The primary objective of ARISTOTLE is to determine if the factor Xa inhibitor, apixaban, is noninferior to warfarin at reducing the combined endpoint of stroke (ischemic or hemorrhagic) and systemic embolism in patients with AF and at least 1 additional risk factor for stroke. We have randomized 18,206 patients from over 1,000 centers in 40 countries. Patients were randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to receive apixaban or warfarin using a double-blind, double-dummy design. International normalized ratios are monitored and warfarin (or placebo) is adjusted aiming for a target INR range of 2 to 3 using a blinded, encrypted point-of-care device. Minimum treatment is 12 months, and maximum expected exposure is 4 years. Time to accrual of at least 448 primary efficacy events will determine treatment duration. The key secondary objectives are to determine if apixaban is superior to warfarin for the combined endpoint of stroke (ischemic or hemorrhagic) and systemic embolism, and for all-cause death. These will be tested after the primary objective using a closed test procedure. The noninferiority boundary is 1.38; apixaban will be declared noninferior if the 95% CI excludes the possibility that the primary outcome rate with apixaban is >1.38 times higher than with warfarin. ARISTOTLE will determine whether apixaban is noninferior or superior to warfarin in preventing stroke and systemic embolism; whether apixaban has particular benefits in the warfarin-nave population; whether it reduces the combined rate of stroke, systemic embolism, and death; and whether it impacts bleeding.

UI  - 20200016
TI  - Effect of continuous versus episodic amiodarone treatment on quality of life in persistent atrial fibrillation.
AB  - Quality of life was comparable in the episodic and continuous treated group after 12 months of follow-up. Continued maintenance of sinus rhythm was associated with an improvement in QoL in the episodic but not the continuous treated group.

UI  - 20189089
TI  - The Stroke Practice Improvement Network: a quasiexperimental trial of a multifaceted intervention to improve quality.
AB  - Implementation of site-specific interventions for quality improvement of specific measures in stroke was difficult to achieve in a 6-month time frame and led to improved adherence for only one of 3 PMs. Studies with a longer intervention period and more sites are required to determine whether tailored interventions can enhance stroke improvement.

UI  - 20185266
TI  - Cyanide poisoning and cardiac disorders: 161 cases.
AB  - Cardiac complications are common in cyanide poisoning in fire survivors.

UI  - 20185018
TI  - The RecordAF study: design, baseline data, and profile of patients according to chosen treatment strategy for atrial fibrillation.
AB  - The REgistry on Cardiac rhythm disORDers assessing the control of Atrial Fibrillation (RecordAF) is the first worldwide, 1-year observational, longitudinal study of the management of paroxysmal/persistent atrial fibrillation (AF) in recently diagnosed patients. The study was conducted at 532 sites in 21 countries across Europe, America, and Asia; recruitment was completed in April 2008. The primary objectives were to prospectively assess the therapeutic success and clinical outcomes in rhythm- and rate-control strategies. The study design and patient baseline data are reported. A total of 5,814 patients with AF were registered, and 5,604 were eligible for evaluation. Rhythm- and rate-control strategies were applied to 55% and 45% of patients, respectively, at study inclusion. Rhythm-control patients mainly received class III agents (45%) or beta blockers (51%), except for sotalol, and rate-control patients mainly received beta blockers (72%), except for sotalol, or cardiac glycosides (34%). Patients receiving a rhythm-control strategy were younger, had a lower resting heart rate, were more frequently symptomatic, and were more likely to have recently diagnosed AF or paroxysmal AF compared to patients receiving a rate-control strategy. A rate-control strategy was more common in patients with a history of heart failure or valvular heart disease and persistent AF. Rate-control patients more often had previous electrocardiographic evidence of AF and were not in sinus rhythm at inclusion (p <0.01 for both end points). Patients were followed at 6 and 12 months, and changes in therapeutic strategy and clinical outcomes were recorded. In conclusion, the RecordAF study results will provide a global perspective on current AF treatment strategies.

UI  - 20184511
TI  - Guidelines' criteria for rate control in atrial fibrillation: are they useful?
AB  - AF patients satisfying the Guidelines' criteria for adequate rate control did not have higher oxygen uptake or report better QoL than AF patients not satisfying the criteria.

UI  - 20178563
TI  - Influence of co-existing atrial fibrillation on the efficacy of atorvastatin treatment in patients with dilated cardiomyopathy: a pilot study.
AB  - In patients with DCM and co-existing AF, a weaker effect of atorvastatin concerning the reduction of IL-6 and NT-proBNP concentration was observed than in patients without atrial fibrillation.

UI  - 20173211
TI  - Efficacy of catheter ablation for atrial fibrillation in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy: impact of age, atrial remodelling, and disease progression.
AB  - RFCA was successful in restoring long-term sinus rhythm and improving symptomatic status in most HCM patients with refractory AF, including the subset with proven sarcomere gene mutations, although redo procedures were often necessary. Younger HCM patients with small atrial size and mild symptoms proved to be the best RFCA candidates, likely due to lesser degrees of atrial remodelling.

UI  - 20170810
TI  - The risk of thromboembolism and need for oral anticoagulation after successful atrial fibrillation ablation.
AB  - In this nonrandomized study, the risk-benefit ratio favored the suspension of OAT after successful AF ablation even in patients at moderate-high risk of TE. This conclusion needs to be confirmed by future large randomized trials.

UI  - 20164787
TI  - Candesartan decreases type III procollagen-N-peptide levels and inflammatory marker levels and maintains sinus rhythm in patients with atrial fibrillation.
AB  - This study has evaluated whether candesartans prevent the recurrence of atrial fibrillation (AF) and decrease type III procollagen-N-peptide (PIIINP) levels. A total of 153 patients with AF were enrolled in this study. Three groups of patients were compared; candesartan group was treated with candesartan plus bepridil (n = 52); and carvedilol group with carvedilol plus bepridil (n = 51); and bepridil group with bepridil alone (n = 50). The primary end point was length of time to the recurrence of AF and all patients were ultimately followed-up for 730 days. Serum levels of the biomarkers were measured at baseline and after 24 months. Maintenance of sinus rhythm was achieved in 25 (50%) patients in bepridil group, 37 (73%) in candesartan group, and 34 (67%) in carvedilol group, giving a bepridil group/candesartan group hazard ratio of 0.36 (95% confidence interval 0.21-0.63; P = 0.03). Candesartan significantly decreased PIIINP levels at 24 months than at baseline in sinus rhythm group (0.57 +/- 0.02 vs. 0.64 +/- 0.05 U/mL, P = 0.04) and did not decrease PIIINP levels in the recurrence group. In conclusions, PIIINP might be related to the possibility of the atrial fibrosis for AF. However, further studies are needed to clarify the relationship between PIIINP and AF.

UI  - 20159046
TI  - Sinus rhythm is associated with fewer heart failure symptoms: insights from the AFFIRM trial.
AB  - Patients in the rhythm control arm had fewer HF symptoms than those in the rate control arm. Stable sinus rhythm was associated with the best functional status. Patients who are the most symptomatic in AF but are unable to maintain normal sinus rhythm if treated by the means used in the AFFIRM trial may be candidates for other treatment options, such as ablation.

UI  - 20158563
TI  - Ablation of severe drug-resistant tachyarrhythmia during pregnancy.
AB  - Ablation can be performed safely with no or minimal radiation exposure during pregnancy. In the setting of malignant, drug-resistant arrhythmia, ablation may be considered a therapeutic option in selected cases.

UI  - 20154349
TI  - Impact of the control of symptomatic paroxysmal atrial fibrillation on health-related quality of life.
AB  - In this study, patients with uncontrolled symptomatic PAF at baseline had an inferior QoL to those with controlled symptomatic PAF. Following treatment with controlled-release flecainide acetate, their QoL improved to a level comparable to controlled patients.

UI  - 20150004
TI  - Comparative effects of losartan and nifedipine therapy on exercise capacity, Doppler echocardiographic parameters and endothelin levels in patients with secondary pulmonary hypertension.
AB  - The findings of this study indicate that losartan is non-inferior to nifedipine for reducing PAP and improving exercise capacity. However, the short-term use of losartan or nifedipine had no statistically significant effect on endothelin-1 levels in patients with secondary PHT.

UI  - 20147846
TI  - Comparative study of nifekalant versus amiodarone for shock-resistant ventricular fibrillation in out-of-hospital cardiopulmonary arrest patients.
AB  - AMD may be borderline superior over NIF to facilitate defibrillation in out-of-hospital patients with cardiopulmonary arrest. However, from the view point of preservation of brain function, NIF is not inferior to AMD for CPR.

UI  - 20132506
TI  - The feasibility of fully automated pacemaker advise in treating atrial tachyarrhythmias.
AB  - This study demonstrates that experienced cardiologists agree with 95% of the observations and programming suggestions that the TA automatically generates.

UI  - 20127419
TI  - Quality of life predicts one-year survival in patients with implantable cardioverter defibrillators.
AB  - Quality of life is an important factor predicting 1-year survival in patients with ICDs. ACE medication and younger age also predict 1-year survival independent of QOL and each other.

UI  - 20105114
TI  - Insights from the dabigatran versus warfarin in patients with atrial fibrillation (RE-LY) trial.
AB  - Oral anticoagulants such as warfarin have been used widely for the treatment of venous thromboembolism and stroke prevention in atrial fibrillation (AF) patients. Warfarin has significant limitations and also requires frequent monitoring. Thus, there is an unmet need, with the quest for alternative oral anticoagulants with stable pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics that do not need monitoring. The paper under evaluation provides us with up-to-date information on the safety and efficacy of a new oral anticoagulant, dabigatran, compared with warfarin for stroke prevention in AF patients.

UI  - 20103757
TI  - Comparison of antiarrhythmic drug therapy and radiofrequency catheter ablation in patients with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00116428.

UI  - 20100903
TI  - Beneficial electrophysiological effects of trimetazidine in patients with postischemic chronic heart failure.
AB  - The aim of the study was to assess whether trimetazidine (TMZ) could affect dispersion of atrial depolarization and ventricular repolarization. Corrected QT interval (QTc), QTc dispersion (QTc-d), Tpeak-Tend, and Tpeak-Tend dispersion (Tpeak-Tend-d) were measured in 30 patients with chronic heart failure (CHF) before and 6 months after randomization to conventional therapy plus TMZ (17 patients) or conventional therapy alone (13 patients). After 6 months, QTc was significantly reduced in both groups, whereas QT-peak was increased only in control group. Tpeak-Tend-d decreased (from 63.53 +/- 24.73 to 42.35 +/- 21.07 milliseconds, P = .006) only in TMZ group. When subgrouped according to CHF etiology, only ischemic patients on TMZ showed Tpeak-Tend-d reduction (65.00 +/- 27.14 vs 36.67 +/- 11.55 milliseconds, P = .001 in ischemic patients; 60.00 +/- 20.00 vs 56.00 +/- 33.86 milliseconds, P = NS, in nonischemic). These electrophysiological properties indicate an undiscovered mechanism of action of TMZ, which could be useful in conditions at risk of major arrhythmias.

UI  - 20076850
TI  - Safety and tolerability of an immediate-release formulation of theoral direct thrombin inhibitor AZD0837 in the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in patients with atrial fibrillation.
AB  - AZD0837 is an investigational oral anticoagulant which is converted to the active form, AR-H067637, a selective direct thrombin inhibitor. The present study, a multicentre, randomised, parallel-group, dose-guiding study, assessed the safety and tolerability of an immediate-release formulation of AZD0837 compared with dose-adjusted warfarin in the prevention of stroke and systemic embolic events in atrial fibrillation (AF) patients. Two hundred fifty AF patients with at least one additional risk factor for stroke were randomised to receive either immediate-release AZD0837 (150mg twice daily [bid] or 350mg bid, blinded treatment) or dose-adjusted warfarin (international normalised ratio 2.0-3.0, open treatment) for three months. The safety and tolerability of 150mg bid AZD0837 appeared to be as good as that of warfarin. Total bleeding events were six with 150mg bid AZD0837, 15 with 350mg bid AZD0837 and eight with warfarin. Alanine aminotransferase elevations (>3xupper limit of normal) were infrequent, without apparent differences between treatment groups. A numerically higher incidence of serious adverse events was observed with 350mg bid AZD0837 compared with 150mg bid, with six of 13 being cardiac related, all with different diagnoses. An increase in mean serum creatinine of approximately 10% was observed in both AZD0837 groups, which returned to baseline after completion of therapy. There were no strokes, transient ischaemic attacks or cerebral haemorrhages with any of the treatments. In conclusion, the safety and tolerability of 150mg bid immediate-release AZD0837 appeared to be as good as that of dose-adjusted warfarin. However, larger studies will be needed to define the safety profile of AZD0837.

UI  - 20076843
TI  - Lower versus standard intensity oral anticoagulant therapy (OAT) in elderly warfarin-experienced patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation.
AB  - It has been observed that elderly patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation (NVAF) benefit from standard [an international normalised ratio (INR) goal of 2.0-3.0] oral anticoagulant treatment (OAT). The hypothesis that lower-intensity anticoagulation therapy can offset the higher bleeding risk in this population has never been tested in an 'ad hoc' clinical trial. Patients over 75 years of age with NVAF were randomised to receive warfarin to maintain the INR at 1.8 (range 1.5-2.0) or at a standard target of 2.5 (range 2.0-3.0). There were 135 patients in the low-intensity and 132 in the standard-intensity groups. During a mean follow-up lasting 5.1 years, 59 primary outcome events (thromboembolism and major haemorrhage) were recorded, 24 (3.5 per 100 patient-years) in the low-intensity group and 35 (5.0 per 100 patient-years) in the standard-intensity group (HR=0.7, 95% CI 0.4-1.1, p=0.1). The reduction in the primary endpoint was mainly due to a diminution in major bleedings (1.9 vs. 3.0 per 100 patient-years; HR=0.6, 95% CI 0.3-1.2, p=0.1). The median achieved INR value was 1.86 in the low-intensity and 2.24 in the standard-intensity group (p<0.001). The frequency of INR testing was 26.1 +/- 13.5 vs. 24.3 +/- 11.6 days, p<0.0001). In this exploratory study we observed a low rate of stroke and major bleeding in elderly patients (>75) being managed in an anticoagulation clinic for primary stroke prevention with low-intensity anticoagulation (INR 1.5-2.0). However, further trials are needed to confirm the hypothesis generated by the present study.

UI  - 20071715
TI  - Utility of treadmill testing in identification and genotype prediction in long-QT syndrome.
AB  - The presence and genotype of LQTS can be predicted by a combination of postural and exercise changes in the QT/RR relationship. beta-Blockade normalized these changes. Routine exercise testing is useful in predicting and directing genetic testing in LQTS.

UI  - 20064822
TI  - The impact of statins and renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system blockers on pulmonary vein antrum isolation outcomes in post-menopausal females.
AB  - Treatment with statins or RAAS inhibitors did not improve catheter ablation success rates among PMFS. Thereby, from a clinical standpoint, PMFS should not be started on these treatments as a procedural 'augmenting agent' at this time.

UI  - 20052497
TI  - The effect of landiolol on cerebral blood flow in patients undergoing off-pump coronary artery bypass surgery.
AB  - Continuous administration of landiolol at a dose of 0.04 mg/kg/min after 1 min rapid i.v. administration at a dose of 0.125 mg/kg/min decreases HR without causing aggravation of CBF during treatment of intraoperative tachycardia in patients with normal and deteriorated cardiac function.

UI  - 21591384
TI  - [Antiarrhythmic activity of omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids in patients with stable ischemic heart disease and ventricular rhythm disturbances].
AB  - 1 g/day omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids application in patients with stable CHD without myocardium contraction dysfunction suffering from ventricular arrhythmias (4B grade after B.Lown) with no direct indications for implantable cardioverter defibrillator therapy results in significant reduction of arrhythmia.

UI  - 20022876
TI  - Increase in organization index predicts atrial fibrillation termination with flecainide post-ablation: spectral analysis of intracardiac electrograms.
AB  - Increase in OI, independent of changes to CL and DF, appears critical to AF termination with flecainide. Increase in OI holds promise as a sensitive predictor of AF termination.

UI  - 20021522
TI  - Remote monitoring of implantable cardioverter defibrillators versus quarterly device interrogations in clinic: results from a randomized pilot clinical trial.
AB  - We showed no significant reduction in cardiac-related resource utilization with remote monitoring of ICDs. However, given the small number of patients in our study, the real clinical and health economics impact of remote monitoring needs to be verified by a large, multicenter, randomized clinical trial.

UI  - 20003123
TI  - Recent caffeine ingestion reduces adenosine efficacy in the treatment of paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia.
AB  - Ingestion of caffeine less than 4 hours before a 6-mg adenosine bolus significantly reduces its effectiveness in the treatment of SVT. An increased initial adenosine dose may be indicated for these patients.

UI  - 20001998
TI  - Outpatient management of oral anticoagulation therapy in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation.
AB  - Due to heightened risk for thromboembolic complications, nonvalvular atrial fibrillation (NVAF) presents an absolute indication for long-term oral anticoagulation therapy. This was an observational, analytical, randomised, one-year clinical study, conducted in the Blood Transfusion Institute Sarajevo, Bosnia & Herzegovina. The aim of this study was to present the oral anticoagulation treatment in terms of International normalised ratio (INR) monitoring and warfarin/acenocoumarol dose titration in 117 patients with NVAF. INR values, the doses of warfarin and acenocoumarol, as well as the tendency and adequacy of their changes were monitored. Percentages of the therapeutic INR values were 51,77% and 53,62%, subtherapeutic 42,84% and 35,86%, and supratherapeutic 5,39% and 10,53% for the warfarin and acenocoumarol treatment, respectively. The average total weekly doses (TWD) which most frequently achieved the therapeutic INR values were 27,89+/-12,34 mg and 20,44+/-9,94 mg, for warfarin and acenocoumarol, respectively. The dose changes with the INR values 1,7 or lower/3,3 or higher were omitted in 13,46% and 15,63%, and with the INR values 1,8-3,2 were noted in 8,62% and 13,48% of all the check-up visits in the warfarin and acenocoumarol group, respectively. The annual dose changes were noted in 24,65% and 31,41%, and the daily dose changes in 74,43% and 73,36% of all the check-up visits of warfarin and acenocoumarol group, respectively. We can conclude that the management of the oral anticoagulation treatment in our country is in accordance with the relevant recommendations, but with the present tendency toward underdosing and unnecessary frequent dose changing.

UI  - 19998013
TI  - Treatment of inappropriate sinus tachycardia with ivabradine.
AB  - The results of our study show that patients with inappropriate sinus tachycardia can be successfully treated with ivabradine.

UI  - 19967647
TI  - Vascular calcification and QT interval in incident hemodialysis patients.
AB  - This study proposes [corrected] to evaluate the impact of different phosphate binders on the slowing of [corrected]cardiovascular calcification [corrected] and QT dispersion in incident haemodialysis patients with a follow-up of [corrected] 36 months. This is to be a [corrected] randomized, multicenter, perspective, [corrected] interventional study. Inclusion criteria are age over 18 years and being an [corrected] incident patient [corrected] on hemodialysis. Exclusion criteria are congenital prolongation of QT segment syndrome, QT-c >440 ms, bradycardia <50 beats per minute, symptomatic [corrected] arrhythmia or any other significant heart problems; electrolyte imbalances [corrected] (especially hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia or [corrected] hypocalcemia); abnormal liver function tests and [corrected] hypothyroidism. An informed consent will be taken at study entry. The patients will be randomized to 2 cohorts: [corrected] 180 patients in the sevelamer [corrected] group and 180 patients in calcium-binder phosphate group. Related vascular calcification mortality is the principal end point [corrected] and will be evaluated at 36 months.

UI  - 19967155
TI  - Are glycoprotein inhibitors safe during percutaneous coronary intervention in patients on chronic warfarin treatment?
AB  - The aim of this study was to evaluate the safety of glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors (GPIs) during percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) in patients on chronic warfarin therapy due to atrial fibrillation (AF). We analysed all consecutive AF patients (N = 377, mean age 70 years, male 71%) on warfarin therapy referred for PCI in seven centres. Major bleeding, access site complications and major adverse cardiovascular events were recorded during hospitalisation. A total of 111 patients (29%) received periprocedural GPIs with a wide inter-hospital variation in their use (range 3-68%). The use of GPIs increased with the severity of the disease presentation and 49% of patients with ST-elevation myocardial infarction received GPIs. Mean periprocedural international normalised ratio (INR) of patients who received GPIs was 1.89 (range 1.1-3.3). Major bleeding was more common in the patients treated with GPIs (9.0% vs. 1.5%, p = 0.001) than in those without GPIs, but there was no difference in major adverse cardiovascular events between the groups. In multivariable analysis, use of GPIs (odds ratio [OR] 5.1, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.3-20.6, p = 0.02) and old age (OR 1.2, 95% CI 1.0-1.3, p= 0.02) remained as the only independent predictors of major bleeding. Also after adjusting for propensity score, GPIs remained as a significant predictor of major bleeding (OR 3.8, 95% CI 1.03-14.1, p = 0.045). In the GPI group, major bleeding was not predicted by INR level or warfarin pause. GPIs increase the risk of major bleeding events irrespective of periprocedural INR levels and should be used with caution in this fragile patient group.

UI  - 19955857
TI  - Thromboembolism in patients with atrial fibrillation with and without left atrial thrombus documented by transesophageal echocardiography.
AB  - The incidence of cerebrovascular events (CVEs) was investigated in 95 consecutive patients with atrial fibrillation (AF) with left atrial thrombus (LAT) diagnosed by transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) and in 131 age- and sex-matched AF patients without LAT. Compared with patients without LAT, patients with LAT had a larger left atrial diameter (49 versus 44 mm, P < 0.0001), a lower left ventricular ejection fraction (40% versus 50%, P < 0.0001), a higher prevalence of spontaneous echocardiographic contrast (88% versus 25%, P < 0.001), a reduced left atrial appendage emptying velocity (0.25 versus 0.41 cm/s, P < 0.0001), and less use of antiarrhythmic drugs (61% versus 76%, P = 0.03). Before TEE, the prevalence of prior CVE was higher in LAT patients (20%) compared with patients without LAT (8%) (P = 0.01). Fifty-four of 95 LAT patients (57%) and 81 of 131 non-LAT patients (62%) were on warfarin before TEE. The incidence of prior CVE in LAT patients without warfarin (32%) was higher than that in non-LAT patients without warfarin (10%) (P = 0.02). The mortality rate in LAT patients with an international normalized ratio (INR) >or= 2.0 (42%) was higher than that in patients without LAT and an INR >or= 2.0 (11%) (P < 0.001). Fifty-one of 95 LAT patients (54%) underwent repeat TEE before cardioversion (48 patients received warfarin therapy). The thrombus resolved in 40 of 51 patients (78%) after the first TEE. There was no significant difference in INR between the patients with persistent and resolved LAT. AF patients with persistent LAT had a higher incidence of CVE (45%) than the patients with resolved LAT (5%) (P = 0.003). We suggest that patients with LAT be treated with warfarin to maintain an INR between 2.5 and 3.5 rather than between 2.0 and 3.0 because they are at a high risk for new thromboembolism.

UI  - 19950088
TI  - Efficacy and tolerability of oral propafenone versus quinidine in the treatment of recent onset atrial fibrillation: A randomized, prospective study.
AB  - Although both drugs revealed the same effectiveness, the conversion to sinus rhythm in the group treated with propafenone was observed more quickly despite the longer paroxysmal AF episode duration.

UI  - 19948506
TI  - Vernakalant hydrochloride for the rapid conversion of atrial fibrillation after cardiac surgery: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov. Identifier: NCT00125320.

UI  - 19927630
TI  - [Comparison of amiodarone plus irbesartan regimen versus amiodarone alone on maintaining sinus rhythm in rheumatic heart disease patients with persistent atrial fibrillation post valve replacement and cardioversion].
AB  - Combined amiodarone and irbesartan use is superior to amiodarone alone for maintaining sinus rhythm in rheumatic heart disease patients with persistent AF post valve replacement and cardioversion.

UI  - 19920784
TI  - Heart rate reduction for 12 months with ivabradine reduces left ventricular mass in cardiac allograft recipients.
AB  - Heart rate reduction with ivabradine is effective and safe in heart transplant recipients. After 12 months, significant effects on LVMI were observed. Therefore, ivabradine may offer a beneficial effect on left ventricular remodelling in HTX patients.

UI  - 19917887
TI  - Impact of implantable cardioverter-defibrillator, amiodarone, and placebo on the mode of death in stable patients with heart failure: analysis from the sudden cardiac death in heart failure trial.
AB  - URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00000609.

UI  - 19913983
TI  - Nifekalant versus lidocaine for in-hospital shock-resistant ventricular fibrillation or tachycardia.
AB  - Nifekalant was more effective than lidocaine for termination of arrhythmia and for ROSC in patients with shock-resistant in-hospital VF or VT (umin-CTR No. UMIN 000001781).

UI  - 19891247
TI  - [The CONVERT trial].
AB  - 

UI  - 19887458
TI  - Does catheter ablation cure atrial fibrillation? Single-procedure outcome of drug-refractory atrial fibrillation ablation: a 6-year multicentre experience.
AB  - Aims In the last decade, several approaches to ablating triggers and substrates of atrial fibrillation (AF) have been developed. However, most studies have reported data only on short- or medium-term follow-up. The aim of this study was to investigate whether the 1-year efficacy of catheter ablation for AF is predictive of long-term clinical success. Methods and results Between February 2001 and October 2003, 229 consecutive patients affected by drug-refractory paroxysmal or persistent AF underwent a single radiofrequency catheter ablation procedure (anatomical approach in 146 patients and electrophysiologically guided approach in 83 patients). Of these patients, 177 (mean age 59.1 +/- 10.5 years, 57.6% with paroxysmal AF) were free from any atrial arrhythmia recurrence after 12 months. These 177 patients were subsequently followed up for at least another 24 months, by means of electrocardiogram and 24 h Holter monitoring. After a mean follow-up of 49.7 +/- 13.3 months (range 36-83 months), 58.2% of the patients were free from any atrial arrhythmia recurrence (39.5% without antiarrhythmic drugs). The actuarial atrial arrhythmia recurrence rate was 13.0% at 2 years, 21.8% at 3 years, 35.0% at 4 years, 46.8% at 5 years, and 54.6% at 6 years. Atrial arrhythmia-free survival was similar in patients with paroxysmal or persistent AF, with and without antiarrhythmic drugs during the follow-up, who underwent electrophysiologically guided pulmonary vein (PV) isolation or anatomical PV ablation. Conclusion Even patients in whom catheter ablation prevents AF recurrence for 1 year should not be considered 'cured', since >40% of them will suffer AF recurrence over a long-term clinical follow-up.

UI  - 19845524
TI  - [Dabigatran versus Warfarin in patients with atrial fibrillation. Results of the RE-LY study].
AB  - 

UI  - 19808492
TI  - Results of a minimally invasive surgical pulmonary vein isolation and ganglionic plexi ablation for atrial fibrillation: single-center experience with 12-month follow-up.
AB  - The single procedure success at 1-year follow-up for surgical pulmonary vein isolation and ganglionic plexi ablation is 65%. Atrial tachyarrhythmia recurrences after surgery are usually responsive to catheter ablation and/or antiarrhythmic drugs.

UI  - 19804515
TI  - Electrophysiologic characteristics of wide QRS complexes during pharmacologic termination of sustained supraventricular tachycardias with verapamil and adenosine: observations from electrophysiologic study.
AB  - Noncatheter induced, five different appearance patterns and four distinct morphologies of ventricular origin were observed. Most of them do not directly terminate tachycardia, but are associated with its termination and are not observed in ongoing tachycardia.

UI  - 19801040
TI  - Evaluation of the effects of PM101, a cyclodextrin-based formulation of intravenous amiodarone, on blood pressure in healthy humans.
AB  - Intravenous amiodarone (AIV) is used to treat cardiac arrhythmias. Hypotension is the dose-limiting adverse event of AIV and is considered to be due to the cosolvents (polysorbate 80 and benzyl alcohol) in the formulation. To minimize hypotension, the initial loading dose of AIV (150 mg) is diluted to 1.5 mg/ml and slowly infused over 10 minutes. PM101 is a cosolvent-free intravenous formulation of amiodarone. The present study was designed to assess any potential hypotensive effect of PM101 (50 mg/ml) on the administration of the loading dose (150 mg) as an undiluted bolus push. This was a randomized, double-blind, placebo- and active-controlled study in healthy human subjects receiving placebo (5% dextrose in water, n = 112) or PM101 (bolus push, n = 112). The primary end point was the noninferiority assessment of placebo versus PM101 for change in systolic blood pressure. For comparison, the standard loading dose of AIV (150 mg) was infused at 1.5 mg/ml over 10 minutes, and a rapid loading dose of AIV (150 mg) was infused undiluted (50 mg/ml) over 15 seconds. PM101 was noninferior to placebo, with changes from baseline systolic blood pressure for placebo and PM101 of -4.25 +/- 4.2 and -4.83 +/- 5.0 mm Hg, respectively. Neither regimen of AIV altered systolic blood pressure compared to placebo. Transient and significant increases in heart rate were observed in both AIV groups and with PM101 but not placebo. In conclusion, the results of this study demonstrate that PM101 is devoid of hypotension in healthy human subjects. The absence of a hypotensive effect of AIV in this population suggests that further evaluation is needed in a patient population with cardiac disease.

UI  - 19793146
TI  - Neurally mediated syncope as a cause of syncope in patients with Brugada electrocardiogram.
AB  - Thirty-five percent of patients with Brugada ECG showed vasovagal responses during the HUT test, suggesting that some Brugada patients have impaired balance of autonomic nervous system, which may relate to their syncopal episodes.

UI  - 19778670
TI  - Quality of care for atrial fibrillation among patients hospitalized for heart failure.
AB  - Guideline-recommended warfarin use in patients with AF and HF is less than optimal, has not improved over time, and varies significantly according to age, race, risk profile, region, and hospital site.

UI  - 19760273
TI  - Inhibition of IK,ACh current may contribute to clinical efficacy of class I and class III antiarrhythmic drugs in patients with atrial fibrillation.
AB  - Inward rectifier potassium currents I(K1) and acetylcholine activated I(K,ACh) are implicated in atrial fibrillation (AF) pathophysiology. In chronic AF (cAF), I(K,ACh) develops a receptor-independent, constitutively active component that together with increased I(K1) is considered to support maintenance of AF. Here, we tested whether class I (propafenone, flecainide) and class III (dofetilide, AVE0118) antiarrhythmic drugs inhibit atrial I(K1) and I(K,ACh) in patients with and without cAF. I(K1) and I(K,ACh) were measured with voltage clamp technique in atrial myocytes from 58 sinus rhythm (SR) and 35 cAF patients. The M-receptor agonist carbachol (CCh; 2 microM) was employed to activate I(K,ACh). In SR, basal current was not affected by either drug indicating no effect of these compounds on I(K1). In contrast, all tested drugs inhibited CCh-activated I(K,ACh) in a concentration-dependent manner. In cAF, basal current was confirmed to be larger than in SR (at -80 mV, -15.2 +/- 1.2 pA/pF, n = 88/35 vs. -6.5 +/- 0.4 pA/pF, n = 194/58 [myocytes/patients]; P < 0.05), whereas CCh-activated I(K,ACh) was smaller (-4.1 +/- 0.5 pA/pF vs. -9.5 +/- 0.6 pA/pF; P < 0.05). In cAF, receptor-independent constitutive I(K,ACh) contributes to increased basal current, which was reduced by flecainide and AVE0118 only. This may be due to inhibition of constitutively active I(K,ACh) channels. In cAF, all tested drugs reduced CCh-activated I(K,ACh). We conclude that in cAF, flecainide and AVE0118 reduce receptor-independent, constitutively active I(K,ACh), suggesting that they may block I(K,ACh) channels, whereas propafenone and dofetilide likely inhibit M-receptors. The efficacy of flecainide to terminate AF may in part result from blockade of I(K,ACh).

UI  - 19738370
TI  - Gender differences in the mortality and outcome of stroke patients in Korea.
AB  - In Korea, women lived longer, but had greater disabilities after strokes than men, indicating the need to develop gender-specific interventions to improve stroke outcomes and reduce the disability burden in women.

UI  - 19738136
TI  - The first evaluation of a novel vitamin K antagonist, tecarfarin (ATI-5923), in patients with atrial fibrillation.
AB  - This is the first study of tecarfarin in patients with atrial fibrillation. It appears that tecarfarin may possess advantages over the currently available standard of care, warfarin, by improving time in therapeutic range. Adequately powered prospective trials are warranted to definitively compare tecarfarin with warfarin in clinical settings for which warfarin is indicated.

UI  - 19726373
TI  - [Therapeutic effects of amiodarone and metoprolol on chronic heart failure complicated by ventricular arrhythmia].
AB  - The combination of amiodarone and metoprolol produces better effect than amiodarone or metoprolol alone in the treatment of CHF complicated by ventricular arrhythmia.

UI  - 19724153
TI  - Effects of intravenous nifekalant as a lifesaving drug for severe ventricular tachyarrhythmias complicating acute coronary syndrome.
AB  - An intravenous bolus injection and subsequent continuous infusion of NIF at a relatively low dosage were effective in treating severe ventricular tachyarrhythmias complicating ACS, reducing the potential risk of proarrhythmia.

UI  - 19720635
TI  - Relationship between ivabradine treatment and cardiovascular outcomes in patients with stable coronary artery disease and left ventricular systolic dysfunction with limiting angina: a subgroup analysis of the randomized, controlled BEAUTIFUL trial.
AB  - Our analyses raises the possibility that ivabradine may be helpful to reduce major cardiovascular events in patients with stable CAD and LVSD who present with limiting angina. However, a large-scale clinical trial is ongoing, which will formally test this hypothesis.

UI  - 19717850
TI  - Effects of rosuvastatin on atrial fibrillation occurrence: ancillary results of the GISSI-HF trial.
AB  - This study shows that there is some evidence of a beneficial effect of rosuvastatin in terms of reduction of AF occurrence in patients with HF. Larger populations are needed to provide a definite answer to the question. ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT00336336.

UI  - 19717844
TI  - Dabigatran versus warfarin in patients with atrial fibrillation.
AB  - In patients with atrial fibrillation, dabigatran given at a dose of 110 mg was associated with rates of stroke and systemic embolism that were similar to those associated with warfarin, as well as lower rates of major hemorrhage. Dabigatran administered at a dose of 150 mg, as compared with warfarin, was associated with lower rates of stroke and systemic embolism but similar rates of major hemorrhage. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00262600.)

UI  - 19710030
TI  - Digoxin in atrial fibrillation: report from the Stockholm Cohort study of Atrial Fibrillation (SCAF).
AB  - Digoxin is mainly given to an elderly and frailer subset of patients with AF and is thus associated with an increased mortality. When differences in patient characteristics are accounted for digoxin use seems to have a neutral effect on mortality and major cardiovascular events in patients with AF.

UI  - 19691680
TI  - Dofetilide for atrial arrhythmias in congenital heart disease: a multicenter study.
AB  - Used appropriately, dofetilide appears to be a viable adjunct to catheter-based ablation and alternative pharmacological approaches for the treatment of atrial arrhythmias in adult patients with congenital heart disease.

UI  - 19690349
TI  - Oral direct thrombin inhibitor AZD0837 for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation: a randomized dose-guiding, safety, and tolerability study of four doses of AZD0837 vs. vitamin K antagonists.
AB  - AZD0837 was generally well tolerated at all doses tested. AZD0837 treatment at an exposure corresponding to the 300 mg od dose in this study provides similar suppression of thrombogenesis at a potentially lower bleeding risk compared with dose-adjusted VKA. This study is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, number NCT00684307.

UI  - 19687359
TI  - Propranolol decreases tachycardia and improves symptoms in the postural tachycardia syndrome: less is more.
AB  - Low-dose oral propranolol significantly attenuated tachycardia and improved symptoms in POTS. Higher-dose propranolol did not further improve, and may worsen, symptoms.

UI  - 19666432
TI  - Comparison of antithyroid drugs efficacy on P wave changes in patients with Graves' disease.
AB  - P wave duration and PWD are found to be prolonged in hyperthyroid patients with GD. Both propylthiouracil and methimazole reduce the P wave duration and dispersion. Thus, we can conclude that improvements in atrial conduction properties are not associated with the type of ATD but with only achievement of euthyroidism.

UI  - 19655825
TI  - Safety of the combination of intensive cholesterol-lowering therapy with oral anticoagulation medication in elderly patients with atrial fibrillation: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study.
AB  - We conclude that in elderly AF patients treated with OAC, intensive cholesterol-lowering therapy (atorvastatin 40 mg/day and ezetimibe 10 mg/day) is well tolerated. No increased risk in bleeding was found.

UI  - 19628179
TI  - Percutaneous left atrial appendage occlusion for patients in atrial fibrillation suboptimal for warfarin therapy: 5-year results of the PLAATO (Percutaneous Left Atrial Appendage Transcatheter Occlusion) Study.
AB  - The PLAATO system is safe and effective. At 5-year follow-up the annualized stroke/TIA rate in our patients was 3.8%/year, less than predicted by the CHADS(2) scoring system.

UI  - 19623049
TI  - Adenosine for wide-complex tachycardia: efficacy and safety.
AB  - : Adenosine is useful and safe as a diagnostic and therapeutic agent for patients with regular wide QRS complex tachycardia.

UI  - 19542996
TI  - Sevoflurane provides better recovery as compared with isoflurane in children undergoing spinal surgery.
AB  - Rapid recovery is desirable in pediatric neurosurgical patients to obtain an early neurologic assessment. We compared the recovery characteristics of 2 commonly used anesthetic agents, sevoflurane and isoflurane, under bispectral index-guided anesthesia in children undergoing spinal surgery. Eighty children who underwent surgery for occult spinal dysraphism at the lumbar and sacral level were randomized to anesthesia with sevoflurane or isoflurane in oxygen and nitrous oxide. Anesthesia depth was guided by a bispectral index monitor kept between 40 and 60. In addition to time at emergence, extubation and discharge, recovery (modified Aldrete) score, and hemodynamics were compared. The 2 groups did not differ significantly with respect to demographics, duration of surgery and anesthesia, and intraoperative hemodynamic changes. Extubation (6.4+/-3.3 vs. 10.7+/-4.6) and emergence (7.8+/-3.4 vs. 12.8+/-5.6) times (minutes) were significantly shorter with sevoflurane (P<0.001). Time (minutes) to achieve full Aldrete (modified) scores was less with sevoflurane (13.9+/-5.3 vs. 20.3+/-6.5) than isoflurane (P<0.001). However, the time (minutes) to achieve discharge criteria from postanesthesia care unit (140.7+/-49.3 vs. 146+/-43.3) and first dose of postoperative analgesic (60+/-24.1 vs. 72+/-33.4) in addition to incidence of postoperative agitation were similar in both groups (P>0.05). Sevoflurane results in an earlier recovery and assessment of modified Aldrete score when compared with isoflurane.

UI  - 19531579
TI  - A history of atrial fibrillation and outcomes in chronic advanced systolic heart failure: a propensity-matched study.
AB  - A history of AF had no intrinsic association with mortality but was associated with HF hospitalization in chronic systolic HF.

UI  - 19525382
TI  - Parasympathetic effects on cardiac electrophysiology during exercise and recovery in patients with left ventricular dysfunction.
AB  - Depressed parasympathetic activity has been proposed to be associated with an increased risk of sudden death. Parasympathetic effects (PE) on cardiac electrophysiology during exercise and recovery have not been studied in patients with left ventricular dysfunction. We performed noninvasive electrophysiological studies (NI-EPS) and characterized the electrophysiological properties of the sinus node, atrioventricular (AV) node, and ventricle in subjects with depressed left ventricular ejection fraction and dual-chamber defibrillators. NI-EPS were performed during rest, exercise, and recovery at baseline and after parasympathetic blockade with atropine to assess PE (the difference between parameter values in the 2 conditions). Ten subjects (9 men: age, 60 +/- 9 yr; and left ventricular ejection fraction, 29 +/- 8%) completed the study. All NI-EPS parameters decreased during exercise and trended toward rest values during recovery. PE at rest, during exercise, and during recovery, respectively, were on sinus cycle length, 320 +/- 71 (P = 0.0001), 105 +/- 60 (P = 0.0003), and 155 +/- 82 ms (P = 0.0002); on AV block cycle length, 137 +/- 136 (P = 0.09), 37 +/- 19 (P = 0.002), and 61 +/- 39 ms (P = 0.006); on AV interval, 58 +/- 32 (P = 0.035), 22 +/- 13 (P = 0.002), and 36 +/- 20 ms (P = 0.001); on ventricular effective refractory period, 15.8 +/- 11.3 (P = 0.02), 4.7 +/- 15.2 (P = 0.38), and 6.8 +/- 15.5 ms (P = 0.20); and on QT interval, 13 +/- 12 (P = 0.13), 3 +/- 17 (P = 0.6), and 20 +/- 23 (P = 0.04). In conclusion, we describe for the first time the changes in cardiac electrophysiology and PE during rest, exercise, and recovery in subjects with left ventricular dysfunction. PEs are preserved in these patients. Thus the role of autonomic changes in the pathophysiology of sudden death requires further exploration.

UI  - 19499718
TI  - [Possible use of standardized Crataegus sanguinea extract in correction of cardiac rhythm impairment in patients with chronic heart failure].
AB  - 

UI  - 19487941
TI  - Intravenous diltiazem is superior to intravenous amiodarone or digoxin for achieving ventricular rate control in patients with acute uncomplicated atrial fibrillation.
AB  - As compared with digoxin and amiodarone, intravenous diltiazem was safe and effective in achieving VR control to improve symptoms and to reduce hospital stay in patients with acute AF.

UI  - 19487925
TI  - The antiarrhythmic properties of quifenadine, H1-histamine receptor blocker in children with premature beats: a randomized controlled pilot trial.
AB  - Despite evolving success of mini-invasive techniques in treating cardiac arrhythmias in children, pharmaceuticals remain the cornerstone therapeutic option. Beyond conventional antiarrhythmic agents such as amiodarone, local anesthetics, tranquilizers, anticonvulsants, and neuroleptics exhibit antiarrhythmic properties. H(1)-histamine receptor blockers are widely used in treating allergies in children. Observational studies suggest efficacy of these agents for treating or preventing tachyarrhythmias, although prolongation of QT interval, and ventricular arrhythmias occur. We determined safety and efficacy of antihistamine, quifenadine, versus conventional amiodarone on cardiac rhythm in children with frequent premature beats (PB). One hundred and four patients (mean age 10.8 +/- 3.2 years) with ventricular (n = 65), supraventricular (n = 39) PB were randomized 1:1 to quifenadine (2 mg kg(-1) day(-1); n = 54), or amiodarone (9 mg kg(-1) day(-1), n = 50) arms. Both groups were treated for 2 weeks. All patients underwent 24-hour Holter monitoring 3 times: before at 14-28 days after randomization, and during the follow up at 2-3 months. The mean frequency of PB in quifenadine group was 562 +/- 61 per hour and 597 +/- 78 per hour in the amiodarone-treated children. Full antiarrhythmic efficacy (PB < 75% from baseline) has been achieved in 23/54 (43%) of quifenadine-treated patients, which was less than after amiodarone treatment (37/50, 74%, P = 0.02). Quifenadine was mostly beneficial in children with supraventricular PB and/or bradycardia than in those with ventricular PB; it was associated with a trend toward increased heart rate during day (88.5 +/- 8.4 beats/min) and night (67.3 +/- 6.2) compared with amiodarone (79.6 +/- 7.8 and 56.1 +/- 5.7 beats/min, respectively; P = 0.04). The incidence of side effects in quifenadine group (drowsiness and headache) was low (2%) in contrast to the alarming 40% risk associated with amiodarone therapy. Quifanidine exhibits antiarrhythmic activity in children with frequent PB, without significant QT prolongation, or sinus node depression. Although, H(1)-histamine receptor blocker is less potent than amiodarone, much better safety profile of quifenadine is advantageous, especially in children. Future large trials with proving novel antihistamines pleiotropy are warranted.

UI  - 19463144
TI  - [Clopidogrel in the treatment of atrial fibrillation: benefit from addition to aspirin. The results of ACTIVE A trial].
AB  - 

UI  - 19436116
TI  - Predicting the efficacy of antiarrhythmic agents for interrupting persistent atrial fibrillation according to spectral analysis of the fibrillation waves on the surface ECG.
AB  - The FCL reflects the electrophysiological properties of the AF substrate and is considered useful for predicting the efficacy of antiarrhythmic agents.

UI  - 19419397
TI  - Quinidine for pharmacological cardioversion of atrial fibrillation: a retrospective analysis in 501 consecutive patients.
AB  - Quinidine for pharmacological cardioversion of AFib is safe and well tolerated in this subset of patients.

UI  - 19392921
TI  - Atrial fibrillation during acute myocardial infarction: association with all-cause mortality and sudden death after 7-year of follow-up.
AB  - Patients with AMI and AF/FL portend a poor prognosis in the long-term chiefly because of an excess of SD. Treatment with ACE-inhibitors and digitalis may have long-term beneficial effects on SD.

UI  - 19383241
TI  - What should be the primary treatment in atrial fibrillation: ventricular rate control or sinus rhythm control with long-term anticoagulation?
AB  - Recent trials have favoured ventricular rate control in atrial fibrillation (AF) management, however the present study investigated whether the restoration and maintenance of sinus rhythm with long-term anticoagulation therapy was superior in terms of embolic events and death in 534 patients with an AF duration > 48 h. Patients were randomized and received sinus rhythm control with either aspirin (group 1) or warfarin (group 2), or they were given ventricular rate control (group 3). Cardioversion to sinus rhythm was attempted in 425 patients and was successful in 387 (91.1%) of them. After 3 years' follow-up there were 12, two and 15 embolic events in groups 1, 2 and 3 respectively (significant difference between groups 1 and 2, and 2 and 3) and overall mortalities were four, two and 12, respectively (significant difference between groups 2 and 3). It is concluded that patients with an AF duration > 48 h might benefit considerably from sinus rhythm restoration and long-term warfarin therapy in terms of embolic events and mortality.

UI  - 19376304
TI  - Rationale and design of RE-LY: randomized evaluation of long-term anticoagulant therapy, warfarin, compared with dabigatran.
AB  - Vitamin K antagonists (VKAs) are effective for stroke prevention in patients with atrial fibrillation (AF) but are difficult to use. Dabigatran etexilate is a prodrug that is rapidly converted to the active direct thrombin inhibitor dabigatran. It is administered in a fixed dose without laboratory monitoring and is being compared with warfarin (international normalized ratio 2-3) in the RE-LY trial. Two doses of dabigatran (110 and 150 mg BID) are being evaluated. RE-LY is a phase 3, prospective, randomized, open-label multinational (44 countries) trial of patients with nonvalvular AF and at least 1 risk factor for stroke. Recruitment concluded with a total of 18,113 patients. Patients who were VKA-naive and experienced are included in balanced proportions. The primary outcome is stroke (including hemorrhagic) or systemic embolism. Safety outcomes are bleeding, liver function abnormalities, and other adverse events. Adjudication of end points is blinded to drug assignment. The trial is expected to accrue a minimum of 450 events with a minimum 1-year of follow-up. RE-LY is the largest AF stroke prevention trial yet undertaken. It is unique because it includes equal numbers of VKA-experienced and naive patients and evaluates 2 different dosages of dabigatran, which may allow tailoring of dosing to individual patient needs. The worldwide site distribution and broad range of stroke risk further increase the general applicability of the trial. Results are expected in 2009.

UI  - 19369667
TI  - Valsartan for prevention of recurrent atrial fibrillation.
AB  - Treatment with valsartan was not associated with a reduction in the incidence of recurrent atrial fibrillation. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00376272.)

UI  - 19361597
TI  - Prospective evaluation of fetuses with autoimmune-associated congenital heart block followed in the PR Interval and Dexamethasone Evaluation (PRIDE) Study.
AB  - We evaluated the efficacy of dexamethasone (DEX) in anti-SSA/Ro-exposed fetuses newly diagnosed with congenital heart block. Previous use of DEX has been anecdotal with varying reports of therapeutic benefit. This was a multicenter, open-label, nonrandomized study involving 30 pregnancies treated with DEX (22 with third-degree block, 6 with second-degree block, 2 with first-degree block) and 10 untreated (9 with third-degree block, 1 with first-degree block). Initial median ventricular rates, age at diagnosis, and degree of cardiac dysfunction were similar between groups. Six deaths occurred in the DEX group. There was no reversal of third-degree block with therapy or spontaneously. In fetuses treated with DEX, 1/6 with second-degree block progressed to third-degree block and 3 remained in second-degree block (postnatally 1 paced, 2 progressed to third degree); 2 reverted to normal sinus rhythm (NSR; postnatally 1 progressed to second degree). DEX reversed the 2 fetuses with first-degree block to NSR by 7 days with no regression at discontinuation. Absent DEX, the 1 with first-degree block detected at 38 weeks had NSR at birth (overall stability or improvement in 4 of 8 in the DEX group vs 1 of 1 in the non-DEX group). Median gestational birth age was 37 weeks in the DEX group versus 38 weeks in the non-DEX group (p = 0.019). Prematurity and small size for gestational age were restricted to the DEX group. Pacemaker use and growth parameters at birth and 1 year were similar between groups. In conclusion, these data confirm the irreversibility of third-degree block and progression of second- to third-degree block despite DEX. A potential benefit of DEX in reversing first- or second-degree block was supported in rare cases but should be weighed against potential steroid side effects such as growth restriction.

UI  - 19359813
TI  - Dose-response effects of bepridil in patients with persistent atrial fibrillation monitored with transtelephonic electrocardiograms: a multicenter, randomized, placebo-controlled,double-blind study (J-BAF Study).
AB  - This study demonstrated the dose response-relationships of bepridil for AF conversion to sinus rhythm. However, the high rate of AF recurrence and substantial drug-related adverse effects, including sudden death, raised caution about using bepridil to treat persistent AF. The balance between benefits and risks of the drug should be individualized.

UI  - 19356768
TI  - Effects of verapamil on anterior ST segment and ventricular fibrillation cycle length in patients with Brugada syndrome.
AB  - In some BS patients, calcium channel blockade may modify the electrical characteristics of VF.

UI  - 19336502
TI  - Effect of clopidogrel added to aspirin in patients with atrial fibrillation.
AB  - In patients with atrial fibrillation for whom vitamin K-antagonist therapy was unsuitable, the addition of clopidogrel to aspirin reduced the risk of major vascular events, especially stroke, and increased the risk of major hemorrhage. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00249873.)

UI  - 20524462
TI  - Role of magnesium in preventing post-operative atrial fibrillation after coronary artery bypass surgery.
AB  - A 3-days postoperative infusion of magnesium is safe and effective in reduction of possibly life-threatening AF, in patients undergoing primary coronary artery bypass surgery.

UI  - 19307477
TI  - Detection and quantification of left atrial structural remodeling with delayed-enhancement magnetic resonance imaging in patients with atrial fibrillation.
AB  - DE-MRI provides a noninvasive means of assessing left atrial myocardial tissue in patients suffering from AF and might provide insight into the progress of the disease. Preablation DE-MRI holds promise for predicting responders to AF ablation and may provide a metric of overall disease progression.

UI  - 19288374
TI  - Outcomes of a single centre registry of patients with ischaemic heart disease, qualified for an RF ablation of ventricular arrhythmia after ICD intervention.
AB  - 1. Ablation might not be suitable as a routine treatment for all patients with ICD interventions, as a significant group prefers not to undergo RF ablation as a routine treatment or there are contraindications for the ablation. 2. There are obstacles in prospective and randomised evaluation of the role of ablation in patients with CAD and ICD interventions, which are related both to patients' medical conditions and to patients' will. These limitations should be taken into account when designing further studies.

UI  - 19282274
TI  - Risks of cardiovascular events and effects of routine blood pressure lowering among patients with type 2 diabetes and atrial fibrillation: results of the ADVANCE study.
AB  - Atrial fibrillation is relatively common in type 2 diabetes and is associated with substantially increased risks of death and cardiovascular events in patients with type 2 diabetes. This arrhythmia identifies individuals who are likely to obtain greater absolute benefits from blood pressure-lowering treatment. Atrial fibrillation in diabetic patients should be regarded as a marker of particularly adverse outcome and prompt aggressive management of all risk factors.

UI  - 19272057
TI  - Excellent long-term reproducibility of the electrophysiologic efficacy of quinidine in patients with idiopathic ventricular fibrillation and Brugada syndrome.
AB  - The long-term reproducibility of the EP efficacy of quinidine in patients with idiopathic VF and Brugada syndrome is excellent. EP-guided quinidine therapy represents a valuable long-term alternative to ICD therapy in these patients.

UI  - 19261367
TI  - Slow infusion of calcium channel blockers compared with intravenous adenosine in the emergency treatment of supraventricular tachycardia.
AB  - Slow infusion of calcium channel blockers is an alternative to adenosine in the emergency treatment of stable patients with SVT. Calcium channel blockers are safe and affordable for healthcare systems where the availability of adenosine is limited.

UI  - 19215837
TI  - Characteristics of recurrent ventricular fibrillation associated with inferolateral early repolarization role of drug therapy.
AB  - Multiple recurrences of VF occurred in 27% of patients with early repolarization abnormality and may be life threatening. Isoproterenol in acute cases and quinidine in chronic cases are effective AADs.

UI  - 19213680
TI  - Effect of dronedarone on cardiovascular events in atrial fibrillation.
AB  - Dronedarone reduced the incidence of hospitalization due to cardiovascular events or death in patients with atrial fibrillation. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00174785.)

UI  - 19207134
TI  - Magnesium sulfate versus placebo for paroxysmal atrial fibrillation: a randomized clinical trial.
AB  - This study was unable to demonstrate a difference between IV MgSO4 10 mmol and saline placebo for reducing heart rate or conversion to sinus rhythm at 2 hours posttreatment in ED patients with AF of less than 48 hours duration.

UI  - 19202157
TI  - Atorvastatin and persistent atrial fibrillation following cardioversion: a randomized placebo-controlled multicentre study.
AB  - Atorvastatin was not statistically superior to placebo with regards to maintaining SR 30 days after CV in patients with persistent AF.

UI  - 19196486
TI  - Multinational development of a questionnaire assessing patient satisfaction with anticoagulant treatment: the 'Perception of Anticoagulant Treatment Questionnaire' (PACT-Q).
AB  - The PACT-Q has been rigorously developed and linguistically validated. It is available in 14 languages for use with thromboembolic patients, including AF, PE and DVT patients. Its validation and psychometric properties have been tested and are presented in a separate manuscript.

UI  - 19195912
TI  - Gabapentin therapy improves heart rate variability in diabetic patients with peripheral neuropathy.
AB  - Therapeutic doses of gabapentin not only alleviate neuropathic symptoms but also improve cardiac autonomic function in diabetic patients with peripheral neuropathy.

UI  - 19187902
TI  - Systematic electrocardioversion for atrial fibrillation and role of antiarrhythmic drugs: a substudy of the SAFE-T trial.
AB  - Amiodarone and sotalol facilitated successful electrocardioversion, which could be achieved in a stepwise fashion. Upon achievement of successful electrocardioversion, amiodarone is superior to placebo, and sotalol has a lesser effect. Antiarrhythmic drugs had no effect on the total number of energy step use in patients who had successful electrocardioversion. Calcium channel blockers had no influence on the success rate in achieving sinus rhythm. Successful electrocardioversion was associated with lower BMI and AF history < or =1 year. Lower energy use was associated with biphasic shocks, lower BMI, and AF duration < or =1 year.

UI  - 19174378
TI  - A preliminary assessment of the effects of ATI-2042 in subjects with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation using implanted pacemaker methodology.
AB  - ATI-2042 effectively reduced AFB over all doses studied by reducing mean episode duration. A large-scale study will be required to confirm this effect.

UI  - 19142363
TI  - Favorable effects of the optimized drug treatment of heart failure on ventricular arrhythmias.
AB  - The optimized treatment of HF decreased the incidence of ventricular arrhythmias. The improvement in the functional class, physical performance and the decreased number of hospitalizations can be attributed to the optimized treatment of HF.

UI  - 19136749
TI  - Effect of single intraoperative dose of amiodarone in patients with rheumatic valvular heart disease and atrial fibrillation undergoing valve replacement surgery.
AB  - Maintenance of sinus rhythm (SR) is superior to rate control in atrial fibrillation (AF). In order to achieve SR, we administered single-dose intravenous amiodarone intraoperatively and evaluated its effect on conversion of rheumatic AF to SR in patients undergoing valvular heart surgery. Patients were randomly assigned to amiodarone (n = 42) or control (n = 40) group in a double blind manner. The amiodarone group received amiodarone (3 mg/kg) intravenously prior to the institution of cardiopulmonary bypass and the control group received the same volume of normal saline. In the amiodarone group, the initial rhythm after the release of aortic cross clamp was noted to be AF in 14.3% (n = 6) and remained so in 9.5% (n = 4) of patients till the end of surgery. In the control group, the rhythm soon after the release of aortic cross clamp was AF in 37.5% (n = 15) (p = 0.035) and remained so in 32.5% (n = 13) of patients till the end of surgery (p = 0.01). At the end of first post-operative day 21.4% (n = 9) of patients in amiodarone group and 55% (n = 22) of patients in control group were in AF (p = 0.002). The requirement of cardioversion/defibrillation was 1.5 (+/-0.54) in amiodarone group and 2.26 (+/-0.73) in the control group (p = 0.014), and the energy needed was 22.5 (+/-8.86) joules in the amiodarone group and 40.53 (+/-16.5) in the control group (p = 0.008). A single intraoperative dose of intravenous amiodarone increased the conversion rate of AF to normal sinus rhythm, reduced the need and energy required for cardioversion/defibrillation and reduced the recurrence of AF within one day.

UI  - 19136164
TI  - Pre-injection of magnesium sulfate enhances the efficacy of ibutilide for the conversion of typical but not of atypical persistent atrial flutter.
AB  - Pre-injection of magnesium significantly enhances the efficacy of ibutilide for the conversion of TAF but not of AAF.

UI  - 19129422
TI  - Rapid conversion of persistent atrial fibrillation to sinus rhythm by intravenous AZD7009.
AB  - This randomized, double-blind trial compared cardioversion rates between AZD7009 infusion (15-minute 3.25 mg/min, 15-minute 4.4 mg/min, or 30-minute 3.25 mg/min) and placebo infusion (15 or 30 minutes) in patients with atrial fibrillation (AF) scheduled for DC cardioversion. One hundred sixty-eight patients were randomized, 167 received study treatment, and 159 were included in perprotocol analyses. The mean duration of current AF episode was 47 days (range, 0.8-92). In the AZD7009 30-minute 3.25 mg/min group, 21 of 42 patients converted within 90 minutes, compared with 7 of 39, 7 of 36, and 0 of 42 patients in the 15-minute 3.25 mg/min, 15-minute 4.4 mg/min, and combined placebo groups, respectively. Patients not converted within 90 minutes underwent DC cardioversion. In patients with AF episodes </=30 days, conversion rates with AZD7009 30-minute 3.25 mg/min and after placebo followed by DC cardioversion were 82% and 83%, respectively. AZD7009 was generally well tolerated. Mean QTc increased by 15% to 20% in the AZD7009 treatment groups. One patient experienced a ventricular tachyarrhythmia of 7 beats, with features of torsades de pointes. AZD7009 was associated with a 50% conversion rate in the best-dose group. In patients with AF episodes <or=30 days, the conversion rates after AZD1305 and placebo followed by DC cardioversion were observed to be similar.

UI  - 19118720
TI  - Prevention of recurrent lone atrial fibrillation by the angiotensin-II converting enzyme inhibitor ramipril in normotensive patients.
AB  - Ramipril is effective in preventing relapses of LAF.

UI  - 19100092
TI  - [Effects of antiarrhythmic drug use on atrial fibrillation recurrence in atrial fibrillation patients post circumferential pulmonary vein ablation].
AB  - Post CAPV antiarrhythmic drug therapy could only decrease the early AF recurrence rate but was not effective for decreasing AF recurrence rate on later stage.

UI  - 19074924
TI  - Relationship of QRS duration at baseline and changes over 60 min after fibrinolysis to 30-day mortality with different locations of ST elevation myocardial infarction: results from the Hirulog and Early Reperfusion or Occlusion-2 trial.
AB  - Baseline QRS duration independently stratifies 30-day mortality in patients with anterior AMI, even when unaccompanied by RBBB, but does not stratify mortality risk in patients with inferior AMI.

UI  - 19060419
TI  - Optimal treatment strategy for patients with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation: J-RHYTHM Study.
AB  - Background Although previous clinical trials demonstrated the non-inferiority of a rate control to rhythm control strategy for management of atrial fibrillation (AF), the optimal treatment strategy for paroxysmal AF (PAF) remains unclear. Methods and Results A randomized, multicenter comparison of rate control vs rhythm control in Japanese patients with PAF (the Japanese Rhythm Management Trial for Atrial Fibrillation (J-RHYTHM) study) was conducted. The primary endpoint was a composite of total mortality, symptomatic cerebral infarction, systemic embolism, major bleeding, hospitalization for heart failure, or physical/psychological disability requiring alteration of treatment strategy. In the study, 823 patients with PAF were followed for a mean period of 578 days. The primary endpoint occurred in 64 patients (15.3%) assigned to rhythm control and in 89 patients (22.0%) to rate control (P=0.0128). No significant differences between the treatment strategies were observed in the incidences of death, stroke, bleeding and heart failure. Meanwhile, significantly fewer patients requested changes of assigned treatment strategy in the rhythm control vs the rate control group, which was accompanied by improvement in AF-specific quality of life scores. Conclusion The J-RHYTHM study showed that rhythm control was associated with fewer primary endpoints than rate control. However, mortality and cardiovascular morbidity were not affected by the treatment strategy (umin-CTR No. C000000106).

UI  - 19042044
TI  - Statin therapy shortens QTc, QTcd, and improves cardiac function in patients with chronic heart failure.
AB  - Although some data suggest that statins can improve cardiac mechanical function in some patients with chronic heart failure (CHF), the effects of long-term statin therapy on cardiac electrical instability remain unclear. We performed a randomized perspective analysis of the effects of 10 mg/d (statin group 1, n=40), 20 mg/d (statin group 2, n=38) of atorvastatin and controls (control group, n=41) on corrected QT intervals (QTc), corrected QT dispersion (QTcd) and cardiac function in patients with CHF secondary to coronary artery disease (CAD) for one year. At 6 and 12 months, the statin groups displayed lower QTc and QTcd compared with controls. The changes were becoming more distinct in statin group 2, (P<0.05). In statin groups, the changes of QTc and QTcd were independent of changes of plasma low-density lipoprotein cholesterol and total cholesterol levels, and the decrease of QTcd was correlated with the increase of LVEF within 12 months. Atorvastatin shortens QTc, QTcd and improves cardiac function, and might thereby be parts of the mechanisms which atorvastatin benefited CHF patients secondary to CAD.

UI  - 19029470
TI  - Catheter ablation versus antiarrhythmic drugs for atrial fibrillation: the A4 study.
AB  - This randomized multicenter study demonstrates the superiority of catheter ablation over antiarrhythmic drugs in patients with AF with regard to maintenance of sinus rhythm and improvement in symptoms, exercise capacity, and quality of life.

UI  - 19017345
TI  - Atrial Arrhythmias in long-QT syndrome under daily life conditions: a nested case control study.
AB  - LQTS patients at high risk for ventricular arrhythmias may develop short-lasting atrial arrhythmias under daily-life conditions, suggesting that prolonged atrial repolarization may contribute to the initiation of AF.

UI  - 19010485
TI  - IV t-PA therapy in acute stroke patients with atrial fibrillation.
AB  - The present study found that acute ischemic stroke patients with AF more frequently had poor outcome after IV-t-PA therapy compared with those without AF.

UI  - 18971603
TI  - [Impact of electrical shock waveform and paddle positions on efficacy of direct current cardioversion for atrial fibrillation].
AB  - For the cardioversion of atrial fibrillation, biphasic shock waveform has a higher success rate than monophasic shock waveform. We did not observe the influence of paddle positions on efficacy of cardioversion. Shock waveform and paddle position had no impact on ERAF. We recommend starting with biphasic energy of 150 J and monophasic of not less than 200 J for cardioversion of atrial fibrillation.

UI  - 18955670
TI  - Benefit of oral anticoagulant over antiplatelet therapy in atrial fibrillation depends on the quality of international normalized ratio control achieved by centers and countries as measured by time in therapeutic range.
AB  - A wide variation exists in international normalized ratio control, as measured by TTR, between clinical centers and between countries, which has a major impact on the treatment benefit of OAC therapy. For centers and countries, a target threshold TTR exists (estimated between 58% and 65%) below which there appears to be little benefit of OAC over antiplatelet therapy.

UI  - 18927241
TI  - Pharmacokinetics of novel atrial-selective antiarrhythmic agent vernakalant hydrochloride injection (RSD1235): influence of CYP2D6 expression and other factors.
AB  - Vernakalant hydrochloride injection (RSD1235) is a relatively atrial-selective antiarrhythmic agent that converts atrial fibrillation rapidly to sinus rhythm. The pharmacokinetics of vernakalant were explored in healthy volunteers and in patients with atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter in 4 clinical studies. Key pharmacokinetic parameters analyzed were the maximum plasma concentration and the area under the plasma concentration-time curve. Vernakalant exhibited linear pharmacokinetics over the dose range of 0.1 mg/kg to 5.0 mg/kg in healthy subjects, and generally showed dose proportionality in patients with atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter who received 1 or 2 vernakalant infusions. Vernakalant was metabolized rapidly via 4-O-demethylation by cytochrome P450 (CYP)2D6 to its major metabolite RSD1385, which then circulated predominantly as an inactive glucuronide conjugate. In most patients, the maximum plasma concentration of RSD1385 glucuronide exceeded that of vernakalant. Unconjugated RSD1385 was found at low levels in all patients demonstrating either a cytochrome P450 CYP2D6 "extensive metabolizer" or "poor metabolizer" phenotype or genotype; however, CYP2D6 poor metabolizers had even lower levels of unconjugated RSD1385. The impact of CYP2D6 metabolizer status on vernakalant exposure was explored in patients with atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter who received a therapeutic regimen (3 mg/kg initially via 10-minute intravenous infusion followed by a second 2 mg/kg 10-minute infusion if atrial fibrillation persisted after a 15-minute observation period). In the subset that received 2 vernakalant infusions, there was little difference in vernakalant maximum plasma concentration or area under the plasma concentration-time curve from the start of the first infusion to 90 minutes between CYP2D6 poor metabolizers and extensive metabolizers or between those who did or did not receive concomitant CYP2D6-inhibitor medications. Gender, age, and renal function did not have a clinically significant influence on the pharmacokinetics of vernakalant. These results suggest that an assessment of CYP2D6 expression may not be needed when vernakalant is administered acutely and intravenously to patients with atrial fibrillation.

UI  - 18922383
TI  - Relationship between subjective symptoms and trans-telephonic ECG findings in patients with symptomatic paroxysmal atrial fibrillation and flutter.
AB  - Asymptomatic PAF/PAFL was not rare in symptomatic patients, and flecainide reduced both symptomatic and asymptomatic episodes.
