
UI  - 25014686
TI  - Effects of extended-release niacin with laropiprant in high-risk patients.
AB  - Among participants with atherosclerotic vascular disease, the addition of extended-release niacin-laropiprant to statin-based LDL cholesterol-lowering therapy did not significantly reduce the risk of major vascular events but did increase the risk of serious adverse events. (Funded by Merck and others; HPS2-THRIVE ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00461630.).

UI  - 25001655
TI  - Clinical association of circulating VEGF-B levels with hyperlipidemia and target organ damage in type 2 diabetic patients.
AB  - Vascular endothelial growth factor-B (VEGF-B is an important member of the VEGF protein family. Recent animal studies indicated that VEGF-B signaling had determinant roles in insulin resistance, lipid distribution and metabolism in type 2 diabetes. The clinical significance of VEGF-B in type 2 diabetes is still not clear. This study aimed to correlate VEGF-B levels with biochemistry characteristics and target organ damage in type 2 diabetic patients. Serum VEGF-B levels were measured using ELISA. A crosssectional control study, which included 180 type 2 diabetic patients and 62 healthy subjects, was carried out. Diabetic patients who were undergoing insulin therapy were not included. This results showed that serum VEGF-B levels did not differ between the type 2 diabetic patients and the healthy controls (169.2&#x2213;118.8 vs 163.5&#x2213;115.2 pg/mL; P=0.734). VEGF-B levels in type 2 diabetic patients were significantly associated with the levels of c-peptide, total cholesterol and triglyceride. T-test analysis showed that the associations of serum VEGF-B levels with insulin resistance, pancreatic reserve, HDL and LDL were not significant. Regression analysis showed that VEGF-B levels were significantly correlated with diabetic retinopathy and nephropathy. No significant association between VEGF-B and macro-vasculopathy was found. In conclusion, our study findings suggested that VEGF-B levels did not differ between the type 2 diabetic patients and the normal controls. High VEGF-B levels might correlate with the presence of hyperlipidemia and target organ damage in type 2 diabetic patients.

UI  - 25000651
TI  - Does race alter the relationship between Hba1c and glucose in type 2 diabetes?
AB  - This study reinforces the A1c-Derived Average Glucose (ADAG) group finding that the relationship between HbA1c and glucose is similar in non-Hispanic black and white adults with type 2 diabetes.

UI  - 24968533
TI  - Study of optimal basal insulin glargine dose requirement in Indian population as an add on therapy to oral hypoglycaemic agents to achieve target fasting blood glucose levels.
AB  - Optimal dosing of basal insulin is needed to achieve target fasting blood glucose and to avoid hypoglycaemia on the other hand in patients of type 2 diabetes on bedtime basal insulin and daytime sulfonylureas. This is an open label, randomised prospective study done in 40 type 2 diabetics having uncontrolled diabetes. Statistical analysis was performed by the SPSS programme for windows, version 17.0. Continuous variables are presented as mean +/- SD, and categorical variables are presented as absolute numbers and percentage. Data were checked for normality before statistical analysis. Normally distributed continuous variables were compared from baseline to 12th week using paired t-test. The average dose requirement of insulin glargine was 33.55 +/- 11.94 units (mean +/- SD). The average insulin glargine dose requirement per kg body weight was 0.48 +/- 0.17 units/kg body weight. The range of insulin dose was 0.23 to 0.96 units/kg body weight. Dose titration is patient specific and should be done in order to achieve target fasting blood glucose.

UI  - 24964639
TI  - The Puerto Rico Cardiovascular Risk-Estimation Study (PRCaRES): an exploratory assessment of new patients in physicians' offices.
AB  - A substantial number of patients had risk factors for developing CHD and were not at goal for specific parameters. Larger scale epidemiological studies should be conducted to assess CHD risk in Puerto Rico so that public health initiatives to reduce this risk might be proposed.

UI  - 24956865
TI  - [Infect of pingshen decoction on serum HGF, Cys C and TGF-beta1 diabetic nephropathy in early stage].
AB  - Study the serum level of HGF, Cys C and TGF-beta1 in type 2 diabetic nephropathy (DN), the infect of Pingshen decoction on those index. Selected 69 cases of 2 type DN and randomly divided into therapy group (36 cases) and control group (33 cases). The therapy group were treated with Pingshen decoction 1 dose/d, bid po. The control group were treated with NephritisShu tablet, 6 tablet, tid po. 8 weeks was a course. Before and after treatment, we examine the serum level of HGF, Cys C and TGF-beta1 by ELISA and immunonephelometry, and compare with 30 cases of healthy control group. The study demonstrates that before treatment, the serum level of HGF in both groups were significantly lower than healthy control group (P < 0.01), but Cys C, TGF-beta1 were significantly higher (P < 0.01). After treatment, the serum level of HGF of both groups were increased. The serum level of HGF of therapy group were significantly higher than of control group (P < 0.01), but the serum level of Cys C and TGF-beta1 were significantly lower than control group (P < 0.01). The serum level of HGF was correlated negatively with Cys C,TGF-beta1. In control group, the UAER, urine beta2-MG and quantity of 24-hour urine protein were significantly decreased after treatment (P < 0.01). The index of urine of therapy group were significantly lower than control group (P < 0.01). Results indicate that test of serum level of HGF and Cys C,TGF-beta1 of diabetic nephropathy have important clinical significance. Pingshen decoction can effectively intervene in the serum level of HGF and Cys C, TGF-beta1 and index of urine.

UI  - 24931572
TI  - Outpatient glycemic control with a bionic pancreas in type 1 diabetes.
AB  - As compared with an insulin pump, a wearable, automated, bihormonal, bionic pancreas improved mean glycemic levels, with less frequent hypoglycemic episodes, among both adults and adolescents with type 1 diabetes mellitus. (Funded by the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases and others; ClinicalTrials.gov numbers, NCT01762059 and NCT01833988.).

UI  - 24915261
TI  - Association of bariatric surgery with long-term remission of type 2 diabetes and with microvascular and macrovascular complications.
AB  - In this very long-term follow-up observational study of obese patients with type 2 diabetes, bariatric surgery was associated with more frequent diabetes remission and fewer complications than usual care. These findings require confirmation in randomized trials. TRIAL REGISTRATION clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT01479452.

UI  - 24915259
TI  - Hydrolyzed infant formula and early -cell autoimmunity: a randomized clinical trial.
AB  - Among infants at risk for type 1 diabetes, the use of a hydrolyzed formula, when compared with a conventional formula, did not reduce the incidence of diabetes-associated autoantibodies after 7 years. These findings do not support a benefit from hydrolyzed formula. TRIAL REGISTRATION clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00179777.

UI  - 24901133
TI  - Efficacy and safety of sitagliptin for the treatment of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease with type 2 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - Sitagliptin for the treatment of NAFLD with type2 DM was safe and showed similar antidiabetic effects as reported for type 2 DM, suggesting that tight glycemic control would contribute to the improvement of NAFLD based from the findings of correlation between the changes of HbA1c and transaminases.

UI  - 24901089
TI  - The impact of soluble dietary fibre on gastric emptying, postprandial blood glucose and insulin in patients with type 2 diabetes.
AB  - Dietary fibre plays an important role in controlling postprandial glycemic and insulin response in diabetic patients. The intake of dietary fibre has been shown to delay the gastric emptying in healthy subjects. The relationship between gastric emptying and postprandial blood glucose in diabetic patients with fibre-load liquids needs to be investigated. To investigate the impact of soluble dietary fibre (SDF) on gastric emptying, postprandial glycemic and insulin response in patients with type 2 diabetes. 30 patients with type 2 diabetes (DM) and 10 healthy subjects (HS) matched for gender and age were randomized to receive SDF-free liquid (500 mL, 500 Kcal) and isoenergetic SDF liquid (oat -glucan 7.5 g, 500 mL, 500 Kcal) on two separate days based on a cross-over with 6-day wash-out period. Gastric emptying was monitored by ultrasonography at intervals of 30 min for 2 hours. Fasting and postprandial blood was collected at intervals of 30-60 min for 180 min to determine plasma glucose and insulin. Proximal gastric emptying was delayed by SDF-treatment both in DM (p=0.001) and HS (p=0.037). SDF resulted in less output volume in the distal stomach in DM (p<0.05). SDF decreased postprandial glucose (p=0.001) and insulin (p=0.001) in DM subjects. Postprandial glucose (r=-0.547, p=0.047) and insulin (r=-0.566, p=0.004) were negatively correlated with distal emptying of SDF in DM subjects. Distal gastric emptying was delayed significantly in DM subjects with HbA1c levels 6.5% (p=0.021) or with complications (p=0.011) by SDF, respectively. SDF improved postprandial glycaemia which was related to slowing of gastric emptying.

UI  - 24884910
TI  - Dyadic collaboration in shared health behavior change: the effects of a randomized trial to test a lifestyle intervention for high-risk Latinas.
AB  - The Unidas program promoted weight loss and improved dietary intake, as well as changes in diet-related involvement of participants' social networks. The results from this study demonstrate that interventions that draw upon multiple people who share a health-risk have the potential to foster significant changes in lifestyle behaviors and in social network members' health-related involvement. Future research that builds on these findings is needed to elucidate the specific dyadic and social network processes that may drive health behavior change.

UI  - 24880969
TI  - [Evaluation of the DIABOBHU Observational Study].
AB  - The authors emphasize that this treatment based on an analogue basal insulin should be considered as an effective and safe therapy.

UI  - 24874977
TI  - Higher potency statins and the risk of new diabetes: multicentre, observational study of administrative databases.
AB  - Higher potency statin use is associated with a moderate increase in the risk of new onset diabetes compared with lower potency statins in patients treated for secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease. Clinicians should consider this risk when prescribing higher potency statins in secondary prevention patients.

UI  - 24843066
TI  - Preparing adolescents with chronic disease for transition to adult care: a technology program.
AB  - Outcomes in ACD improved significantly among recipients of a generic, technology-based intervention. Technology can deliver transition interventions to adolescents with diverse chronic illnesses, and a generic approach offers a cost-effective means of positively influencing transition outcomes. Further research is needed to determine whether improved short-term outcomes translate into an improved transition for ACD.

UI  - 24825104
TI  - Assessment of macular function using the SKILL Card in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - The SKILL Card demonstrated vision function changes in diabetes even in the absence of clinically evident retinopathy. Diabetic retinopathy led to a further increase in the SKILL score, while high-contrast VA remained unchanged.

UI  - 24823259
TI  - Depression and all-cause mortality in persons with diabetes mellitus: are older adults at higher risk? Results from the Translating Research Into Action for Diabetes Study.
AB  - This analysis suggests that the effect of depression on mortality in persons with diabetes mellitus is most significant for older adults. Because there is evidence in the literature that treatment of depression in elderly adults can lead to lower mortality, these results may suggest that older adults with diabetes mellitus should be considered a high-priority population for depression screening and treatment.

UI  - 24820924
TI  - Effectiveness and tolerability of second-line therapy with vildagliptin versus other oral agents in type 2 diabetes (EDGE): post-hoc subanalysis of the Belgian data.
AB  - In this EDGE subgroup of Belgian patients with type 2 diabetes who do not achieve the glycemic targets with monotherapy, a similar trend as in the global EDGE study was observed. Adding vildagliptin as a second oral glucose-lowering agent resulted in lowering HbA1c to <7% without weight gain, hypoglycemia or peripheral oedema in a higher proportion of patients than comparator oral antidiabetic drugs, with no differences in the reported number of adverse events.

UI  - 24819579
TI  - Peer mentoring for type 2 diabetes prevention in first nations children.
AB  - An after-school, peer-led, healthy living program attenuated weight gain and improved healthy living knowledge in children living in a remote isolated First Nation.

UI  - 24812554
TI  - Parallelism for quantitative image analysis of photoreceptor-retinal pigment epithelium complex alterations in diabetic macular edema.
AB  - Parallelism has the potential to reflect structural changes of the photoreceptor layers in DME.

UI  - 24804364
TI  - Diabetes control through an educational intervention.
AB  - Although our study reports positive results, it warrants a special emphasis on the behavior of the patient. Study results bring attention to disease management programs such as peer support networks that empower the patients that shift some of the responsibility to them.

UI  - 24803033
TI  - Daily sodium butyrate enema for the prevention of radiation proctitis in prostate cancer patients undergoing radical radiation therapy: results of a multicenter randomized placebo-controlled dose-finding phase 2 study.
AB  - There was no evidence of efficacy of NABUREN in reducing the incidence, severity, and duration of acute radiation proctitis. There was a correlation between some endpoints and clinical risk factors.

UI  - 24800381
TI  - Lowering dietary glycaemic index through nutrition education among Malaysian women with a history of gestational diabetes mellitus.
AB  - GI-education improves GI-concept knowledge and helps lower dietary glycaemic index among women with a history of GDM.

UI  - 24788972
TI  - Long-term risk and predictors of recurrent stroke beyond the acute phase.
AB  - Despite declining recurrence rates in this relatively young stroke population, almost one third are either dead or have experienced a second stroke in 5 years.

UI  - 24787564
TI  - Comparison of conventional pattern and novel navigated panretinal photocoagulation in proliferative diabetic retinopathy.
AB  - Navigated laser treatment achieves more uniform laser burns with less pain during shorter treatment duration in comparison with conventional pattern laser.

UI  - 24783928
TI  - An magnetic resonance-based plasma metabonomic investigation on abnormal Savda in different complicated diseases.
AB  - The data indicate that decreased oxidative defense, liver function abnormalities, amino acid deficiencies, and energy metabolism disorders are common characteristics of complicated diseases, which may be related to the formation of abnormal Savda.

UI  - 24783923
TI  - Clinical efficacy and safety of traditional Chinese medicine combined with Western Medicine in patients with diabetic acute ischemic stroke.
AB  - Standardized treatment was superior to non-standardized treatment for clinical efficacy of TCM combined with WM in patients with diabetic acute ischemic stroke, and the superiority was more obvious in improving neural dysfunction, ADL score, and TCM symptoms. The adverse reactions were similar in the two treatment groups.

UI  - 24781960
TI  - Effects of telephone-based peer support in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus receiving integrated care: a randomized clinical trial.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00950716.

UI  - 24772989
TI  - Cluster randomised controlled trial: educational self-care intervention with older Taiwanese patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus--impact on blood glucose levels and diabetic complications.
AB  - Although overall occurrence of complications remained unchanged, the educational health care package specifically developed for Taiwanese elderly with Type 2 DM improved blood glucose levels.

UI  - 24770541
TI  - [Chronic pain in the diabetic patient: a quali-quantitative observational study].
AB  - The data gathered in this study have drawn attention on the fact that the presence of pain is higher in female gender, with a prevalence of 60% compared to the 38% of the male gender. It has been observed no relation with the age range, in particular no proportional increase level of pain has been observed, although the higher peak of prevalence has been experienced in the age range between 70-79, both for pain in general and for chronic pain. Speaking about efficacy of the treatment, almost 50% of the subjects have received no improvement from the therapy.

UI  - 24754632
TI  - Comorbidity is an independent prognostic factor in patients with advanced-stage diffuse large B-cell lymphoma treated with R-CHOP: a population-based cohort study.
AB  - An observational population-based cohort study was performed to investigate the role of comorbidity on outcome and treatment-related toxicity in patients with newly diagnosed advanced-stage diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) treated with R-CHOP (rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, prednisone). Data for the clinical characteristics of 154 patients (median age 69years), including Charlson Comorbidity Index (CCI), treatment, toxicity and outcome were evaluated. Forty-five percent of the patients had an International Prognistic index 3 and 16% had a CCI 2. The planned R-CHOP schedule was completed by 84% and 75% reached complete remission (CR). In those with CCI 2, 67% completed treatment with 46% CR. In patients with a CCI <2, overall survival (OS) after 1, 2 and 5years was 84%, 79% and 65% respectively and it was 64%, 48% and 48% for those with CCI 2. Grade III/IV toxicity was documented in 53%, most frequently febrile neutropenia (27%) and infections (23%). In multivariate analysis CCI 2 and IPI 3 were independent risk indicators for OS and grade III/IV toxicity. In conclusion, comorbidity is an independent risk indicator for worse OS in patients with advanced DLBCL treated with R-CHOP by interference with intensive treatment schedules and more grade III/IV toxicity. Future studies are warranted to determine the optimal treatment approach in patients with significant comorbidities.

UI  - 24736241
TI  - Sex differences in trends of incidence and mortality of first-ever stroke in rural Tianjin, China, from 1992 to 2012.
AB  - There was a significant increase in the incidence of first-ever stroke in women annually and a declining trend in the male/female rate ratio in rural China during the past 21 years. These results suggest that stroke will become one of the major diseases affecting women in future decades in China.

UI  - 24736240
TI  - Localized retinal nerve fiber layer defects and stroke.
AB  - Localized RNFLDs showed a strong association with previous or acute cerebrovascular stroke and vice versa after adjustment for other systemic and ocular factors. Localized RNFLDs that can be assessed by noninvasive optical coherence tomographic imaging may be added to the panoply of retinal morphological features of stroke.

UI  - 24732303
TI  - Diabetes and obesity are significant risk factors for morning hypertension: from Ibaraki Hypertension Assessment Trial (I-HAT).
AB  - Diabetic or obese patients frequently have morning HT.

UI  - 24725640
TI  - At high risk for early withdrawal: using a cumulative risk model to increase retention in the first year of the TEDDY study.
AB  - 

UI  - 24722445
TI  - The endothelin antagonist atrasentan lowers residual albuminuria in patients with type 2 diabetic nephropathy.
AB  - Despite optimal treatment, including renin-angiotensin system (RAS) inhibitors, patients with type 2 diabetic nephropathy have high cardiorenal morbidity and mortality related to residual albuminuria. We evaluated whether or not atrasentan, a selective endothelin A receptor antagonist, further reduces albuminuria when administered concomitantly with maximum tolerated labeled doses of RAS inhibitors. We enrolled 211 patients with type 2 diabetes, urine albumin/creatinine ratios of 300-3500 mg/g, and eGFRs of 30-75 ml/min per 1.73 m(2) in two identically designed, parallel, multinational, double-blind studies. Participants were randomized to placebo (n=50) or to 0.75 mg/d (n=78) or 1.25 mg/d (n=83) atrasentan for 12 weeks. Compared with placebo, 0.75 mg and 1.25 mg atrasentan reduced urine albumin/creatinine ratios by an average of 35% and 38% (95% confidence intervals of 24 to 45 and 28 to 47, respectively) and reduced albuminuria30% in 51% and 55% of participants, respectively. eGFR and office BP measurements did not change, whereas 24-hour systolic and diastolic BP, LDL cholesterol, and triglyceride levels decreased significantly in both treatment groups. Use of atrasentan was associated with a significant increase in weight and a reduction in hemoglobin, but rates of peripheral edema, heart failure, or other side effects did not differ between groups. However, more patients treated with 1.25 mg/d atrasentan discontinued due to adverse events. After stopping atrasentan for 30 days, measured parameters returned to pretreatment levels. In conclusion, atrasentan reduced albuminuria and improved BP and lipid spectrum with manageable fluid overload-related adverse events in patients with type 2 diabetic nephropathy receiving RAS inhibitors.

UI  - 24721603
TI  - Long-term outcomes of extracorporeal shockwave therapy for chronic foot ulcers.
AB  - ESWT appears effective in chronic diabetic and nondiabetic foot ulcers. However, the effects decreased from 1-5 y after treatment.

UI  - 24713310
TI  - Tapentadol potentiates descending pain inhibition in chronic pain patients with diabetic polyneuropathy.
AB  - The study was registered at trialregister.nl under number NTR2716.

UI  - 24702733
TI  - Youth-onset type 2 diabetes mellitus: lessons learned from the TODAY study.
AB  - Type 2 diabetes mellitus is increasingly diagnosed in obese children and adolescents. Evidence suggests that this disease commonly progresses more rapidly in youth compared with adults and is associated with high rates of early microalbuminuria, hypertension, and dyslipidemia. The Treatment Options for Type 2 Diabetes in Adolescents and Youth (TODAY) study was the first multiethnic, multicenter randomized trial in the United States to compare 3 treatment approaches in obese youth with new-onset type 2 diabetes (n=699; ages 10-17 years): monotherapy with metformin, metformin with rosiglitazone, and metformin with an intensive lifestyle intervention. The primary outcome was glycemic control. Diabetes-related complications and cardiovascular risk factors were also examined. Approximately half of the participants could not maintain glycemic control by using metformin alone. Combination therapy with metformin and rosiglitazone resulted in better durability of glycemic control, and metformin plus intensive lifestyle intervention was intermediate but not superior to metformin alone. Deterioration in glycemic control was associated with rapid loss of beta cell function, not worsened insulin sensitivity, and could not be explained by differences in adherence or body mass index. After 3.9 years, 236 (33.8%) of participants had hypertension and 116 participants (16.6%) had microalbuminuria. Only 55.9% of participants had a low-density lipoprotein cholesterol level less than 100 mg/dL (to convert to mmol/L, multiply by 0.0259) after 3 years, and 71 of 517 participants (13.7%) had retinopathy. The significance of the findings from this important trial for the management of youth and young adults with youth-onset type 2 diabetes and its complications is discussed. An aggressive multifaceted approach is needed to prevent or forestall premature microvascular and macrovascular complications in youth-onset type 2 diabetes.

UI  - 24702680
TI  - Reducing obesity among employees of a manufacturing plant: translating the Diabetes Prevention Program to the workplace.
AB  - Obesity affects individuals physically and emotionally, contributing to direct and indirect employer costs. Targeted obesity interventions through the Diabetes Prevention Program Lifestyle Core Curriculum offered at the worksite could promote healthy lifestyle decisions resulting in weight improvement among overweight and obese employees. A pretest-posttest cohort design was used to evaluate changes in weight and body mass index among 35 Diabetes Prevention Program participants; they achieved statistically significant changes in body weight (p < .001) and body mass index (p < .001). As a process measure, Diabetes Prevention Program session attendance moderately correlated with weight loss (r = .51; p = .002). Many health care professionals, including occupational health nurses, can implement evidence-based worksite obesity interventions to support employee weight loss.

UI  - 24698671
TI  - Association of C(-106)T polymorphism in aldose reductase gene with diabetic retinopathy in Chinese patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - Microalbuminuria and insulin therapy are associated with the risk of DR in Chinese patients with T2DM. C(-106)T polymorphism of the ALR gene may not be significantly associated with DR in Chinese patients with T2DM.

UI  - 24694876
TI  - Comparison of repaglinide and metformin monotherapy as an initial therapy in Chinese patients with newly diagnosed type 2 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - Repaglinide and metformin achieved comparable efficacy in improving glycaemic control, reducing glycaemic variability, enhancing insulin sensitivity and ameliorating -cell function. Therefore, repaglinide is an optional agent for initial therapy in Chinese patients with newly diagnosed T2DM.

UI  - 24687353
TI  - Acute kidney injury in cardiac surgery.
AB  - The prevalence of AKI in our Institute is of 17%. Patients with AKIN 2 and 3 had a higher mortality and a longer stay in the intensive care unit. The major risk factors for AKI development were identified.

UI  - 24686469
TI  - Relation between pretransplant magnesemia and the risk of new onset diabetes after transplantation within the first year of kidney transplantation.
AB  - This study supports that a low pretransplant Mg level is an independent risk factor of NODAT in kidney transplant recipients.

UI  - 24685959
TI  - Trends in the prevalence of ketoacidosis at diabetes diagnosis: the SEARCH for diabetes in youth study.
AB  - The frequency of DKA in youth with type 1 diabetes, although stable, remains high, indicating a persistent need for increased awareness of signs and symptoms of diabetes and better access to health care. In youth with type 2 diabetes, DKA at onset is less common and is decreasing over time.

UI  - 24683709
TI  - Community tailored partnerships that work: implementing new models of primary care in the state of Maryland.
AB  - 

UI  - 24683708
TI  - Maryland physicians lead new quality improvement initiative: innovative pilot program tackles hypertension control in the ambulatory setting.
AB  - 

UI  - 24682069
TI  - Effect of aleglitazar on cardiovascular outcomes after acute coronary syndrome in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus: the AleCardio randomized clinical trial.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT01042769.

UI  - 24680588
TI  - The complex triad of obesity, diabetes and race in Type I and II endometrial cancers: prevalence and prognostic significance.
AB  - Obesity and diabetes are highly prevalent in Type I and II ECs, especially in AA. DM was associated with worse RFS and OS in Type I EC. Neither DM nor BMI was associated with outcomes in Type II or HG EC.

UI  - 24679060
TI  - Bariatric surgery versus intensive medical therapy for diabetes--3-year outcomes.
AB  - Among obese patients with uncontrolled type 2 diabetes, 3 years of intensive medical therapy plus bariatric surgery resulted in glycemic control in significantly more patients than did medical therapy alone. Analyses of secondary end points, including body weight, use of glucose-lowering medications, and quality of life, also showed favorable results at 3 years in the surgical groups, as compared with the group receiving medical therapy alone. (Funded by Ethicon and others; STAMPEDE ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00432809.).

UI  - 24678906
TI  - Efficacy and safety of monotherapy with the novel sodium/glucose cotransporter-2 inhibitor tofogliflozin in Japanese patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus: a combined Phase 2 and 3 randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, parallel-group comparative study.
AB  - This study was registered in the JAPIC clinical trials registry (ID: Japic CTI-101349).

UI  - 24666618
TI  - Effect of change in body weight on incident diabetes mellitus in patients with stable coronary artery disease treated with atorvastatin (from the treating to new targets study).
AB  - Features of the metabolic syndrome are independent risk factors for new-onset diabetes mellitus (NODM) related to statin therapy. Obesity is the predominant underlying risk factor for the metabolic syndrome and diabetes mellitus. This study investigated whether change in body weight may predict NODM in statin-treated patients. A total of 7,595 patients without prevalent diabetes mellitus at baseline from the Treating to New Targets (TNT) study were included in this analysis. They were randomized to atorvastatin 10 or 80 mg/day and monitored for a median of 4.9 years. NODM developed in 659 patients (8.1% in the 10-mg group and 9.2% in the 80-mg group). There was a significant increase in body weight (0.9 kg, p <0.01 in both men and women) over 1 year after randomization. The increase in body weight was greater in patients with NODM than those without NODM (1.6 vs 0.9 kg, p <0.001). The association of change in body weight with NODM risk remained significant after adjusting for confounding factors (hazard ratios 1.33, 1.42, and 1.88 for quartiles 2, 3, and 4 compared with quartile 1, respectively). Similar results were obtained in patients with normal fasting glucose level. In conclusion, 1-year change in body weight is predictive of NODM in patients who underwent statin therapy from the TNT trial. Our study highlights the importance of weight control as a lifestyle measure to prevent statin-related NODM.

UI  - 24660591
TI  - Effect of hypoglycemic anti-deafness capsules in diabetic patients with deafness and toxicological assessment in rats.
AB  - Through experiment on animals and clinical trials, we can found that hypoglycemic anti-deafness capsules could decrease blood glucose and serum triglycerides of alloxan-induced diabetic rats. This herbal capsule is effective for safely treating diabetic patients with deafness.

UI  - 24656118
TI  - Myocardial blood flow under general anaesthesia with sevoflurane in type 2 diabetic patients: a pilot study.
AB  - http://www.clinicialtrials.gov, NCT00866801.

UI  - 24647393
TI  - Dietary intake of vitamin K is inversely associated with mortality risk.
AB  - Vitamin K has been related to cardiovascular disease and cancer risk. However, data on total mortality are scarce. The aim of the present study was to assess the association between the dietary intake of different types of vitamin K and mortality in a Mediterranean population at high cardiovascular disease risk. A prospective cohort analysis was conducted in 7216 participants from the PREDIMED (Prevencin con Dieta Mediterrnea) study (median follow-up of 4.8 y). Energy and nutrient intakes were evaluated using a validated 137-item food frequency questionnaire. Dietary vitamin K intake was calculated annually using the USDA food composition database and other published sources. Deaths were ascertained by an end-point adjudication committee unaware of the dietary habits of participants after they had reviewed medical records and linked up to the National Death Index. Cox proportional hazard models were fitted to assess the RR of mortality. Energy-adjusted baseline dietary phylloquinone intake was inversely associated with a significantly reduced risk of cancer and all-cause mortality after controlling for potential confounders (HR: 0.54; 95% CI: 0.30, 0.96; and HR: 0.64; 95% CI: 0.45, 0.90, respectively). In longitudinal assessments, individuals who increased their intake of phylloquinone or menaquinone during follow-up had a lower risk of cancer (HR: 0.64; 95% CI: 0.43, 0.95; and HR: 0.41; 95% CI: 0.26, 0.64, respectively) and all-cause mortality (HR: 0.57; 95% CI: 0.44, 0.73; and HR: 0.55; 95% CI: 0.42, 0.73, respectively) than individuals who decreased or did not change their intake. Also, individuals who increased their intake of dietary phylloquinone had a lower risk of cardiovascular mortality risk (HR: 0.52; 95% CI: 0.31, 0.86). However, no association between changes in menaquinone intake and cardiovascular mortality was observed (HR: 0.76; 95% CI: 0.44, 1.29). An increase in dietary intake of vitamin K is associated with a reduced risk of cardiovascular, cancer, or all-cause mortality in a Mediterranean population at high cardiovascular disease risk. This trial was registered at http://www.controlled-trials.com as ISRCTN35739639.

UI  - 24647052
TI  - Prospective development and validation of a model to predict heart failure hospitalisation.
AB  - A prospectively derived and validated model using simply obtained clinical data can identify patients with CHF at low risk of hospitalisation due to AHFS in the year following assessment. This may guide the design of future strategies allocating resources to the management of CHF.

UI  - 24646468
TI  - Prognostic implications of diabetes in patients with left-sided endocarditis: findings from a large cohort study.
AB  - Patients with diabetes mellitus (DM) have a higher incidence of infections, and those with bacteremia are more prone to develop sepsis and infective endocarditis (IE). Nevertheless, data concerning the impact of DM on the prognosis of patients with IE are limited and sometimes contradictory. We examined the impact of DM on the inhospital outcome of left-sided IE in a large cohort of patients. We studied 594 consecutive episodes of left-sided IE diagnosed at 3 tertiary care centers. They were divided into 2 groups: episodes in patients with DM (n = 114) and episodes in patients without DM (n = 480). We retrospectively analyzed the influence of DM therapy on patient outcome. Compared to patients without DM, patients with DM were older (67  10 vs. 60  15 yr; p < 0.001), less frequently male (53.5% vs. 67.9%; p = 0.004), and more commonly had chronic renal failure (23.9% vs. 6.9%; p < 0.001) and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (14.6% vs. 7.8%; p = 0.019). Enterococcus (14.9% vs. 7.4%; p = 0.011) and Streptococcus bovis (8.8% vs. 3.8%; p = 0.024) were isolated more frequently. In the univariable analysis, septic shock (29.2% vs. 16.4%; p = 0.005) and mortality (43.5% vs. 30.0%; p = 0.008) were more common among patients with DM than in those without. Considering the different treatments for DM, septic shock (33.3%; p = 0.011) and death (50.8%; p = 0.012) were more frequent in patients receiving oral medication to treat diabetes than in patients with the other treatment modalities. However, multivariable analysis showed that DM had an independent association with development of septic shock (OR 2.282; 95% CI 1.186-4.393), but it was not a predictor of inhospital mortality.Staphylococci were the most frequently involved microorganisms in all patients; however, Enterococcus and Streptococcus bovis were more frequently isolated from individuals with DM and left-sided IE, whereas viridans group streptococci were more commonly isolated from those with left-sided IE who did not have DM. DM was independently associated with the development of septic shock, but it was not an independent predictor of inhospital mortality in patients with left-sided IE.

UI  - 24640347
TI  - Study on prevalance of diabetes mellitus in patients with T.B. under DOTS strategy.
AB  - The higher prevalence of diabetes mellitus in DOTS patients raises immediate concerns in preventing the morbidity due to both the diseases. Therefore, it is recommended that some strategy on the lines of HIV disease should be formed under DOTS for the concomitant treatment of TB and diabetes for better outcome and care.

UI  - 24637866
TI  - Kidney function before pancreas transplant alone predicts subsequent risk of end-stage renal disease.
AB  - Kidney function before PTA is a strong independent predictor of ESRD. These results may inform patient selection and the use of targeted interventions to reduce the risk of progressive kidney impairment in this patient population.

UI  - 24634944
TI  - Iron overload and glucose abnormalities in chronic hepatitis C virus infection: phlebotomy lowers risk of new-onset diabetes.
AB  - Iron overload is a risk for the development of diabetes in patients with CHC and that reduction of body iron stores lowers this risk.

UI  - 24632279
TI  - Impact of coronary lesion complexity on drug-eluting stent outcomes in patients with and without diabetes mellitus: analysis from 18 pooled randomized trials.
AB  - In the DES era, patients with DM remain at increased risk for cardiac death or myocardial infarction. However, DM is a risk factor for repeat revascularization only in those patients with complex lesions; patients with DM and noncomplex lesions have similar rates of 1-year freedom from repeat revascularization as do patients without DM.

UI  - 24630791
TI  - Periprocedural glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus undergoing coronary angiography with possible percutaneous coronary intervention.
AB  - Periprocedural hyperglycemia is an independent predictor of mortality in patients who underwent percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). However, periprocedural management of blood glucose is not standardized. The effects of routinely continuing long-acting glucose-lowering medications before coronary angiography with possible PCI on periprocedural glycemic control have not been investigated. Patients with diabetes mellitus (DM; n= 172) were randomized to continue (Continue group; n= 86) or hold (Hold group; n= 86) their clinically prescribed long-acting glucose-lowering medications before the procedure. The primary end point was glucose level on procedural access. In a subset of patients (no DM group: n= 25; Continue group: n= 25; and Hold group: n= 25), selected measures of platelet activity that change acutely were assessed. Patients with DM randomized to the Continue group had lower blood glucose levels on procedural access compared with those randomized to the Hold group (117 [97 to 151] vs 134 [117 to 172] mg/dl, p= 0.002). There were two hypoglycemic events in the Continue group and none in the Hold group, and no adverse events in either group. Selected markers of platelet activity differed across the no DM, Continue, and Hold groups (leukocyte platelet aggregates: 8.1% [7.2 to 10.4], 8.7% [6.9 to 11.4], 10.9% [8.6 to 14.7], p= 0.007; monocyte platelet aggregates: 14.0% [10.3 to 16.3], 20.8% [16.2 to 27.0], 22.5% [15.2 to 35.4], p <0.001; soluble p-selectin: 51.9ng/ml [39.7 to 74.0], 59.1ng/ml [46.8 to 73.2], 72.2ng/ml [58.4 to 77.4], p=0.014). In conclusion, routinely continuing clinically prescribed long-acting glucose-lowering medications before coronary angiography with possible PCI help achieve periprocedural euglycemia, appear safe, and should be considered as a strategy for achieving periprocedural glycemic control.

UI  - 24628556
TI  - Glycation of the complement regulatory protein CD59 is a novel biomarker for glucose handling in humans.
AB  - We observed robust relationships between a single measurement of blood levels of GCD59 and both acute (2-hour OGTT) and chronic (HbA1c) measures of glucose handling. Lowering of GCD59 levels closely reflected lowering of average weekly glucose within 2 weeks. The role of GCD59 in the diagnosis, management, and vascular risk stratification in diabetes warrants further investigation.

UI  - 24626001
TI  - A clinical study of bilateral non-obstructive acute pyelonephritis with acute kidney injury in patients of type 2 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - The aim of our study was to study the clinical profile of type 2 diabetes mellitus patients admitted with the diagnosis of acute kidney injury (AKI) due to bilateral acute non-obstructive pyelonephritis. The bilateral involvement was identified on various imaging modalities (ultrasound, computed tomography, nuclear scintigrapy). All the patients had AKI. Those with severe AKI underwent hemodialysis. The factors associated with the severity of illness were identified. Twenty-five patients of type 2 diabetes mellitus admitted with the diagnosis of AKI due to bilateral acute non-obstructive pyelonephritis were identified. On ultrasound, bilateral involvement was found in 12 patients and in 17 patients on computed tomography and eight patients on nuclear scintigraphy. Fourteen of them needed dialysis support. Bilateral acute pyelonephritis needs to be considered while evaluating the AKI in type 2 diabetes mellitus patients.

UI  - 24624855
TI  - [Recent advances of monitoring and glycaemia control during early postoperative period in patients after pancreas surgery].
AB  - Recently new technologies of diagnostics and correction of carbohydrates metabolism disturbances are introduced in the ICU to improve the safety for patients during intensive care. 33 patients after pancreas surgery were included into the study 13 patients (39%) had underlying diabetes mellitus. Glucose level changes in the interstitial liquid of the subcutaneous fat during postoperative period were monitored by system of CGM Medtronic MiniMed Guardian RT, MiniMed Paradigm Real-time. Valid values of glucose were from 4.1 to 10.1 mmol/L. Episodes of glucose level increasing occurred in 94% of patients in postoperative period after pancreas surgery. Average level of glucose was within the limits of valid values. However in 64% of cases patients needed insulin therapy Used systems of continuous glucose monitoring in the ICU allow improving the safety for patients receiving artificial nutrition and intravenous insulin therapy.

UI  - 24617227
TI  - [Clinical observation on repair of lymphocyte injury in patients with diabetic nephropathy treated by regulating spleen-stomach needling].
AB  - The regulating spleen-stomach needling is an effective method for treatment of DN, which cold improve glycometabolism disturbance-induced progressive kidney injury, recover glomerular filtration, reduce urinary albumin excretion rate, restrain overexpression of MCP-1, adjust level of oxidative stress, prohibit oxidation of protein, increase protectiveness of membrane, adjust quantity and activity abnormity of T lymphocyte subgroup, leading to repairing lymphocyte damage and improving immune expression to delay kidney damage.

UI  - 24606105
TI  - Glucose turnover after replacement of usual therapy by insulin in insulin-naive type 2 diabetes subjects.
AB  - In T2D, acute discontinuation of anti-hyperglycemic therapy and replacement with insulin increases postprandial Ra and reduces peripheral insulin sensitivity. Insulin dose initiation may need to compensate for these alterations.

UI  - 24605717
TI  - Comparison of glycaemic response to honey and glucose in type 2 diabetes.
AB  - Low dose of honey can be a valuable sugar substitute for patients with diabetes.

UI  - 24605611
TI  - [Effect of probiotics on proinflammatory cytokines level in patients with type 2 diabetes and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease].
AB  - We examined 72 patients with T2D and NAFLD. All patients divided by us on the way of therapy into 2 groups. The main group (n = 45) received oral antidiabetic therapy and multiprobiotic "Symbiter" within 30 days. Patients of comparison group (n = 27) received only hypoglycemic drugs. Also in each group we identified patients with normal and elevated level of transaminases. We observed 1.5-2 times increasing of cytokines in patients with NAFLD and elevated transaminase levels compared to patients with normal transaminase levels. We noted statistically significant reduction of proinflammatory cytokines in plasma, after 30 days of therapy, in patients with elevated levels of transaminases. In particular, the level of IL-6 decreased on 30.9% (P < 0.001), IL-8 - 19.9% (P = 0.001), TNF-alpha - 13.4% (P < 0.001), IL-1beta - 17.9% (P < 0.001) and IFN-gamma on 18.7% (P < 0.001) respectively. In patients with normal levels transaminases and NAFLD were significantly decreased only TNF-alpha on 15.1% (P = 0.003) and IL-8 on 15.2% (P = 0.017). Significant changes in cytokines levels in patients of comparative group we don't observed. Probiotics can be recommended for use in patients with different stages of NAFLD and T2D as an adjunct to standard treatment regimens because it decreases manifestations of low-grade systemic inflammatory response.

UI  - 24604308
TI  - Effect of doxycycline vs placebo on retinal function and diabetic retinopathy progression in patients with severe nonproliferative or non-high-risk proliferative diabetic retinopathy: a randomized clinical trial.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00511875.

UI  - 24602844
TI  - Effects of early versus delayed initiation of antiretroviral treatment on clinical outcomes of HIV-1 infection: results from the phase 3 HPTN 052 randomised controlled trial.
AB  - US National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases.

UI  - 24582483
TI  - Longitudinal associations between sex, diabetes self-care, and health-related quality of life among youth with type 1 or type 2 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - HRQL in this cohort varied by diabetes type. The interaction between sex and age for type 1 participants, coupled with poorer HRQL among female than male participants with type 2 diabetes, suggests the impacts of diabetes on HRQL differ by sex and should be considered in clinical management. Encouraging physical activity and weight control continue to be important in improving HRQL.

UI  - 24581920
TI  - Preventable coronary heart disease events from control of cardiovascular risk factors in US adults with diabetes (projections from utilizing the UKPDS risk engine).
AB  - Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) carries significant risks for coronary heart disease (CHD). We examined the potential US population impact of single and composite risk factor control. Among US adults with diagnosed T2DM aged30 years in the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey 2007 to 2012, we assessed CHD events preventable using the United Kingdom Prospective Diabetes Study CHD risk engine. We examined in all those not at goal the impact of statistical control of smoking, glycated hemoglobin, systolic blood pressure, and total and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, according to the predefined criteria setting risk factors at different levels of control representing (1) "All to Goal," (2) at "Nominal Control," or (3) at "Aggressive Control." Preventable CHD events represented the difference between the number of events estimated from the control of these risk factors versus current levels of the risk factors. Of 606 men (representing 6.2 million) and 603 women (6.3 million) with DM and no previous CHD, 1.3 million men and 0.7 million women would develop a CHD event within 10 years if left uncontrolled. Controlling all risk factors to goal was projected to prevent 35% and 45% of CHD events in men and women, respectively. Nominal risk factor control was projected to prevent 36% and 38% and aggressive control 51% and 61% of CHD events, respectively. In conclusion, a significant proportion of CHD events in adults with T2DM could be prevented from composite control of risk factors often not at goal.

UI  - 24577154
TI  - Impact of delivery models on understanding genomic risk for type 2 diabetes.
AB  - The delivery of personal genomic risk through a trained health professional resulted in significantly higher comprehension. Therefore, if the online delivery of genomic test results is to become more widespread, further evaluation of this method of communication may be needed to ensure the effective presentation of results to promote comprehension.

UI  - 24576381
TI  - The effects of aerobic exercise training on psychosocial aspects of men with type 2 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - Aerobic exercise training can be considered as an appropriate program for improving the health of the patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus, and it also can improve their mental health.

UI  - 24575607
TI  - Nurse perceptions of the Diabetes Get Checked programme.
AB  - The study sought nurse's perspectives with regard to a recently terminated programme designed to provide care to people with diabetes. It identified areas that worked well in programme implementation and those that could be improved. These findings provide useful information for funders and planners developing new programmes designed to support people with diabetes.

UI  - 24575551
TI  - Is there a link between influenza and type I diabetes? Increased incidence of TID during the pandemic H1N1 influenza of 2009 in Chile.
AB  - The temporal coincidence suggests a possible link between T1DM and H1N1 virus, might be thought to be through direct cytopathic damage. Unfortunately we could only confirm H1N1 previous infection in only one case. Prospective studies in new T1DM cases are necessary to test this hypothesis.

UI  - 24573661
TI  - Prevention of diabetes with Mediterranean diets: a subgroup analysis of a randomized trial.
AB  - Instituto de Salud Carlos III.

UI  - 24571940
TI  - Neutrophil-lymphocyte ratio as a predictor of cognitive dysfunction in carotid endarterectomy patients.
AB  - Preoperative NLR is associated with cognitive dysfunction 1 day after CEA. NLR 5 and diabetes mellitus are significantly associated with increased odds of cognitive dysfunction whereas statin use is significantly associated with decreased odds.

UI  - 24571163
TI  - Self-management in chronic conditions: partners in health scale instrument validation.
AB  - The findings suggest the scale is useful as a generic self-rated clinical tool for assessing self-management in a range of chronic conditions, and provides an outcome measure for comparing populations and change in patient self-management knowledge and behaviour. The authors recommend validating the scale in other Latin-American settings with more research into the effect of gender on self- management.

UI  - 24569817
TI  - Elevated levels of hemoglobin A1c are associated with cerebral white matter disease in patients with stroke.
AB  - http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00715533.

UI  - 24566596
TI  - Transitional care clinic for uninsured and medicaid-covered patients with diabetes mellitus discharged from the hospital: a pilot quality improvement study.
AB  - Transitioning from the inpatient to outpatient setting is often a problematic aspect of diabetes mellitus (DM) care. Different factors during hospitalization may adversely affect glycemic control in patients, who are frequently discharged on regimens that differ markedly from prehospitalization outpatient regimens. Moreover, the discharge recommendations may not have been tested adequately during a relatively short hospital length of stay and pose a significant threat to patient safety upon discharge. Our pilot study evaluated the effect on hospital utilization of the transitional care clinic (TCC), where patients with DM are seen within 2 to 5 days of hospital discharge. One hundred patients with DM, who were either medically indigent (no insurance or Medicaid and no primary care providers) or covered by Medicaid, and who did not have a primary care provider, were randomized into either a control or an intervention group upon discharge from the hospital. Subjects from the intervention group (n = 50) were seen in the TCC. All subjects were contacted 90 days after discharge to collect information about emergency department visits and readmissions. Thirteen subjects from the control group and 13 from the intervention group visited the emergency department within 90 days of discharge. Fourteen control subjects (28%) and 10 intervention patients (20%) were rehospitalized for various medical conditions during the follow-up period (P = not significant). Among patients originally admitted for DM-related issues, 6 of 14 in the control group (42.9%) and 2 out of 16 in the intervention group (12.5%) were readmitted during follow-up (P < 0.05). We conclude that the TCC may be effective for the prevention of rehospitalizations in indigent patients admitted for DM-related problems and who did not have primary care providers. The benefit of the TCC was not seen when patients with DM were admitted for other medical problems. Larger randomized controlled trials are needed to confirm this preliminary finding.

UI  - 24565266
TI  - Usefulness of subclinical left ventricular midwall dysfunction to predict cardiovascular mortality in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - In this study, we tested the hypothesis that impaired midwall shortening predicts cardiovascular (CV) mortality in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM). In patients with DM without overt cardiac disease, systolic left ventricular (LV) function analyzed by midwall shortening may be impaired although LV ejection fraction is preserved. Impaired midwall shortening is an early independent prognosticator of adverse clinical outcome in patients with arterial hypertension. We analyzed the echocardiographic data from 360 outpatients with DM collected during the years 1990 to 2007. Patients had no history or symptoms attributable to cardiac disease. Stress-corrected midwall shortening (sc-MS) was taken as index of systolic LV function and considered impaired if <89%. The study outcome was CV mortality. At baseline, impaired sc-MS was detected in 140 patients (39%). During a mean follow-up period of 11 years, 54 patients (15%) died, 31 (8.6%) of them from CV causes. CV deaths occurred in 21 of 140 patients (15%) with impaired sc-MS and in 10 of 220 patients (4.5%) with normal sc-MS (p=0.006). Multivariate Cox regression analysis revealed that impaired sc-MS (hazard ratio 1.03, 95% confidence interval 1.01 to 1.08, p=0.039), together with lower estimated glomerular filtration rate (hazard ratio 0.96, 95% confidence interval 0.93 to 0.99, p=0.004), was independently associated with CV mortality even after adjustment for age, diabetes duration, hemoglobin A1c, left atrial diameter, and heart valve calcium. In conclusion, subclinical systolic LV dysfunction as measured by sc-MS occurs frequently in patients with DM without overt cardiac disease and independently predicts long-term CV mortality in such patients together with lower estimated glomerular filtration rate.

UI  - 24564044
TI  - Severe sepsis in the emergency department - an observational cohort study from the university hospital of the West Indies.
AB  - Despite a lack of EGDT, sepsis treatment patterns were consistent with "best-practice" and mortality was lower than international comparators.

UI  - 24560971
TI  - Reproductive history and progression of lower urinary tract symptoms in women: results from a population-based cohort study.
AB  - In this cohort study, 2 vaginal child deliveries, uterine prolapse, and among younger women, gestational diabetes were robust predictors of LUTS progression. Clinicians should assess the presence of bothersome urinary frequency, urgency, and voiding symptoms among women who have had multiple vaginal childbirths or gestational diabetes.

UI  - 24560324
TI  - Patterns and predictors of intensive statin therapy among patients with diabetes mellitus after acute myocardial infarction.
AB  - Intensive statin therapy is a central component of secondary prevention after acute myocardial infarction (AMI), particularly among high-risk patients, such as those with diabetes mellitus (DM). However, the frequency and predictors of intensive statin therapy use after AMI among patients with DM have not been described. We examined patterns of intensive statin therapy use (defined as a statin with expected low-density lipoprotein cholesterol lowering of >50%) at discharge among patients with AMI with known DM enrolled in a 24-site US registry. Predictors of intensive statin therapy use were evaluated using multivariable hierarchical Poisson regression models. Among 1,300 patients with DM after AMI, 22% were prescribed intensive statin therapy at hospital discharge. In multivariable models, ST-elevation AMI (risk ratio [RR] 1.48, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.29 to 1.70), insurance for medications (RR 1.28, 95% CI 1.00 to 1.63), and higher low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels (RR 1.05 per 1mg/dl, 95% CI 1.02 to 1.07) were independent predictors of intensive statin therapy, whereas higher Global Registry of Acute Coronary Events scores were associated with lower rates of intensive statin therapy (RR 0.94 per 10 points, 95% CI 0.91 to 0.98). In conclusion, only 1 in 5 patients with DM was prescribed intensive statin therapy at discharge after an AMI. Predictors of intensive statin therapy use suggest important opportunities to improve quality of care in this patient population.

UI  - 24559582
TI  - Cotreatment with the -glucosidase inhibitor miglitol and DPP-4 inhibitor sitagliptin improves glycemic control and reduces the expressions of CVD risk factors in type 2 diabetic Japanese patients.
AB  - Our results suggest that combination therapy with miglitol and sitagliptin improves glycemic control and reduces the circulating protein concentrations of IL-8, sE-selectin, and sVCAM-1 in type 2 diabetic Japanese patients.

UI  - 24557997
TI  - [Dosing irregularities and hypoglycaemia in insulin treatment of type 2 diabetes: the GAPP2TM study].
AB  - 

UI  - 24553035
TI  - Relationship between patient satisfactions with diabetes care and treatment.
AB  - The study findings revealed that patient satisfaction was positively associated with sociodemographic variables like high income, employment, married individuals and those with higher levels of education. We found a lower treatment satisfaction in patients with diabetes-related complications and insulin treatment.

UI  - 24531025
TI  - A randomized trial to assess functional and structural effects of ranibizumab versus laser in diabetic macular edema (the LUCIDATE study).
AB  - Ranibizumab therapy in the treatment of diabetic macular edema seems to improve retinal function and structure as demonstrated by this evaluation of different assessment methods.

UI  - 24522441
TI  - Dietary determinants of hepatic steatosis and visceral adiposity in overweight and obese youth at risk of type 2 diabetes.
AB  - Hepatic steatosis is associated with a greater intake of fat and fried foods, whereas visceral obesity is associated with increased consumption of sugar and reduced consumption of fiber in overweight and obese adolescents at risk of type 2 diabetes.

UI  - 24521771
TI  - Long-term follow-up of a phase III clinical trial comparing tacrolimus extended-release/MMF, tacrolimus/MMF, and cyclosporine/MMF in de novo kidney transplant recipients.
AB  - In this 4-year follow-up report, patients receiving Astagraf XL and Prograf showed comparable efficacy and safety profiles, with a higher incidence of new-onset diabetes after transplantation but superior renal function compared to patients receiving CsA.

UI  - 24520744
TI  - Distal vein patch as a form of autologus modification for infragenicular prosthetic bypass.
AB  - This study proved equivalent patencies of infragenicular prosthetic bypasses performed using distal vein patch technique as with any other modification of distal anastomosis.

UI  - 24519298
TI  - Preterm birth and random plasma insulin levels at birth and in early childhood.
AB  - There was an inverse association between gestational age and elevated plasma insulin levels at birth and in early childhood. The implications for future development of insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes warrant further investigation.

UI  - 24518614
TI  - Predicting adherence to diabetic eye examinations: development of the compliance withAnnual Diabetic Eye Exams Survey.
AB  - The CADEES showed good content and predictive validity. Although additional research is needed before finalizing a shorter version of the survey, our findings suggest that researchers and clinicians may be able to improve adherence by (1) counseling newly diagnosed patients, as well as those with uncontrolled blood glucose, on the importance of annual eye examinations and (2) discussing perceived barriers and misconceptions.

UI  - 24511708
TI  - Efficacy of supplementary vitamins C and E on anxiety, depression and stress in type 2 diabetic patients: a randomized, single-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - Diabetes mellitus as one of the most prevalent endocrine disease is associated with high oxidative stress. Anxiety, stress and depression are common neuropsychiatric features in diabetic patients. Hyperglycemia leads to increased oxidative stress which in turn diminishes antioxidant defense system. On the other hand oxidative stress is the leading cause of depression and anxiety disorders. Thus, it seems that diabetes could accelerate the trend of psychiatric diseases. In this randomized single-blind study, evaluation of the effects of two antioxidants (vitamin C and vitamin E) was done on Stress, depression and anxiety levels in 45 diabetic patients for six weeks. The patients were randomly divided in three groups of vitamin E (400 IU day(-1)), vitamin C (1000 mg day(-1)) and placebo. DASS-21 (Depression Anxiety Stress Scales 21-item) questionnaire items were read to each patient and completed by the main investigator of this study before and after six weeks of supplementation. The scores of depression, anxiety and stress were evaluated separately based on the DASS questionnaire. The results showed a significant decrease in anxiety level (p = 0.005) in vitamin C group compared to other groups but there were no significant differences between groups in terms of changes in stress and depression scores. In conclusion, this study suggests that short-term supplementation of vitamin C is safe and beneficial for reducing anxiety levels in diabetic patients through alleviating oxidative damage.

UI  - 24503784
TI  - Chronic dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibition with sitagliptin is associated with sustained protection against ischemic left ventricular dysfunction in a pilot study of patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and coronary artery disease.
AB  - URL: http://www.isrctn.org. Unique identifier ISRCTN61646154.

UI  - 24503241
TI  - Long-term risk of coronary events after AKI.
AB  - The incidence rate of AKI in hospitalized patients is increasing. However, relatively little attention has been paid to the association of AKI with long-term risk of adverse coronary events. Our study investigated hospitalized patients who recovered from de novo dialysis-requiring AKI between 1999 and 2008 using patient data collected from inpatient claims from Taiwan National Health Insurance. We used Cox regression with time-varying covariates to adjust for subsequent CKD and ESRD after discharge. Results were further validated by analysis of a prospectively constructed database. Among 17,106 acute dialysis patients who were discharged, 4869 patients recovered from dialysis-requiring AKI (AKI recovery group) and were matched with 4869 patients without AKI (non-AKI group). The incidence rates of coronary events were 19.8 and 10.3 per 1000 person-years in the AKI recovery and non-AKI groups, respectively. AKI recovery associated with higher risk of coronary events (hazard ratio [HR], 1.67; 95% confidence interval [95% CI], 1.36 to 2.04) and all-cause mortality (HR, 1.67; 95% CI, 1.57 to 1.79) independent of the effects of subsequent progression to CKD and ESRD. The risk levels of de novo coronary events after hospital discharge were similar in patients with diabetes alone and patients with AKI alone (P=0.23). Our results reveal that AKI with recovery associated with higher long-term risks of coronary events and death in this cohort, suggesting that AKI may identify patients with high risk of future coronary events. Enhanced postdischarge follow-up of renal function of patients who have recovered from temporary dialysis may be warranted.

UI  - 24502891
TI  - Progression to impaired glucose tolerance or type 2 diabetes mellitus in polycystic ovary syndrome: a controlled follow-up study.
AB  - Conversion rates from NGT to IGT or type 2 diabetes mellitus were accelerated in women with PCOS compared with healthy subjects. Women with PCOS should be tested regularly for early detection of abnormal glucose tolerance. In addition, the interval for periodic rescreening should be determined by further studies involving more women with PCOS.

UI  - 24502618
TI  - Plasma level of cyclophilin A is increased in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and suggests presence of vascular disease.
AB  - Our study demonstrates that patients with type 2 diabetes have higher circulating levels of cyclophilin A than the normal population. Plasma cyclophilin levels were increased in patients with diabetes and coronary artery disease suggesting a role of this protein in accelerating vascular disease in type 2 diabetes. Considering the evidence that Cyclophilin A is an inflammatory mediator in atherogenesis, the mechanistic role of cyclophilin A in diabetic vascular disease progression deserves detailed investigation.

UI  - 24501946
TI  - [Comparative data of prokinetics in treatment of gastroesophageal reflux disease in patients with diabetes].
AB  - IG was more effective then DP in the treatment of GERD in patients with diabetes, and may be recommended for inclusion in the scheme of treatment of this comorbidity.

UI  - 24498905
TI  - Changes in liraglutide-induced body composition are related to modifications in plasma cardiac natriuretic peptides levels in obese type 2 diabetic patients.
AB  - There were significant correlations between increases in both plasma ANP and BNP levels and changes in liraglutide-induced body composition. Our data implied that increases in plasma NPs may add a novel dimension to explain how liraglutide induces weight loss.

UI  - 24496318
TI  - Patterns of statin initiation, intensification, and maximization among patients hospitalized with an acute myocardial infarction.
AB  - In a large, multicenter acute myocardial infarction cohort, statin therapy was begun in nearly 90% of patients during hospitalization, with no variability across sites; however, rates of statin intensification and maximization were low and varied substantially across hospitals. Given that more intense statin therapy is associated with better outcomes, changing the existing performance measures to include the intensity of statin therapy may improve care.

UI  - 24493100
TI  - Cognitive function and brain structure in persons with type 2 diabetes mellitus after intensive lowering of blood pressure and lipid levels: a randomized clinical trial.
AB  - In participants with long-standing T2DM and at high risk for cardiovascular events, intensive BP control and fibrate therapy in the presence of controlled low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels did not produce a measurable effect on cognitive decline at 40 months of follow-up. Intensive BP control was associated with greater decline in TBV at 40 months relative to standard therapy. TRIAL REGISTRATION clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00000620.

UI  - 24492504
TI  - Differential systemic gene expression profile in patients with diabetic macular edema: responders versus nonresponders to standard treatment.
AB  - In summary, this study would provide an insight into the probable signaling mechanisms for disease pathogenesis as well as progression. This type of study eventually would aid in developing or improvising existing treatment modules with a rational approach towards personalized medicine, in future addressing the differential responses to treatment.

UI  - 24491880
TI  - Effects of combined lipoic acid and pyridoxine on albuminuria, advanced glycation end-products, and blood pressure in diabetic nephropathy.
AB  - This study was designed to investigate the effects of combined administration of lipoic acid and pyridoxine on albuminuria, oxidative stress, blood pressure, serum advanced glycation end-products, nitric oxide (NO), and endothelin-1 in patients with diabetic nephropathy. Thirty-four patients were randomly assigned to either a supplement group or a placebo group. The patients in the supplement group received 800 mg lipoic acid and 80 mg pyridoxine daily for 12 weeks, whereas the placebo group received corresponding placebos. Urinary albumin, serum malondialdehyde (MDA), and systolic blood pressure decreased significantly in the supplement group compared to the placebo group (p < 0.05). Serum NO increased in the supplement group compared to the placebo group (p < 0.05). Serum pentosidine and carboxymethyl lysine decreased significantly in the supplement group at the end of week 12 compared to baseline (p < 0.05). No statistically significant differences were observed between the two groups in mean changes of serum endothelin-1, glucose, and diastolic blood pressure. The present study indicates that combined administration of lipoic acid and pyridoxine improves albuminuria in patients with diabetic nephropathy by reducing oxidative stress, advanced glycation end-products, and systolic blood pressure. The reduction in microalbuminuria may be of benefit in retarding the progression of diabetic nephropathy.

UI  - 24491642
TI  - Three-year outcomes of individualized ranibizumab treatment in patients with diabetic macular edema: the RESTORE extension study.
AB  - Ranibizumab was effective in improving and maintaining BCVA and CRST outcomes with a progressively declining number of injections over 3 years of individualized dosing. Ranibizumab was generally well tolerated with no new safety concerns over 3 years.

UI  - 24485208
TI  - Impact of patient use of an online patient portal on diabetes outcomes.
AB  - Accessing an online patient portal is associated with improved glycemic control.

UI  - 24483160
TI  - Autonomous and continuous adaptation of a bihormonal bionic pancreas in adults and adolescents with type 1 diabetes.
AB  - A single control algorithm, initialized only with subject weight, can quickly adapt to regulate glycemia in patients with TID and highly variable insulin requirements.

UI  - 24483158
TI  - The effect of PDRN, an adenosine receptor A2A agonist, on the healing of chronic diabetic foot ulcers: results of a clinical trial.
AB  - PDRN facilitates the healing of Wagner 1 or 2 diabetic foot ulcers.

UI  - 24482986
TI  - Insulin analogue therapy improves quality of life in patients with type 2 diabetes in India: the A1chieve study.
AB  - Compared with baseline scores, HRQoL improvement was seen after 24 weeks of treatment with all insulin analogue therapies

UI  - 24482985
TI  - Improvement of glycemic control with addition of insulin detemir to existing antidiabetic therapy: a sub-group analysis of A1chieve observational study.
AB  - In patients with T2DM not achieving their glycemic targets addition of basal insulin detemir was well tolerated and reported improvement in glycemic control.

UI  - 24482984
TI  - Addition of insulin aspart with basal insulin is associated with improved glycemic control in Indian patients with uncontrolled type 2 diabetes mellitus: the A1chieve observational study.
AB  - Insulin aspart (IAsp) has been used in patients for more than a decade. A plethora of data is available, from clinical trials, to document its efficacy and safety and suggest that IAsp is a favorable choice to be used in a basal-bolus regimen. The A1chieve@ was a non-interventional study that explored the safety and effectiveness of initiating or switching to insulin analogues in routine clinical practice in more than 60,000 patients from 28 different countries. In this manuscript, we discuss the findings from the subgroup of the Indian cohort who were treated with insulin aspart (IAsp), in addition to a basal insulin analogue (insulin detemir, IDet). In a cohort of 343, who were on IAsp + IDet, 175 (51%) were insulin naive and 168 (49%) had been on insulin therapy earlier. Glycaemic parameters were high at baseline. Mean HbA1c was 9.3% in them and was comparable in both insulin naive and insulin experienced groups. After 24 weeks of therapy with IAsp + basal insulin, there were reductions in HbA1c in both the insulin naive group, (-1.6) and insulin experienced group (-1.5). Fasting plasma glucose (FPG) and postprandial plasma glucose (PPG) levels were also reduced significantly from baseline (-77 and - 110 mg/dL, respectively, p < 0.001). Overall, hypoglycaemia decreased from 0.97 (baseline) to 0.18 events/patient years (24 weeks). There was also an increase in quality of life score as evaluated by EQ-5D questionnaire. Addition of IAsp with a basal insulin in patients with poor glycaemic control leads to an improvement in glycaemic profile with no major hypoglycaemia or clinically significant weight gain along with an improvement in the quality of life in patients with type 2 diabetes.

UI  - 24482983
TI  - Initiation of insulin aspart to Indian subjects on OADs show significant improvement in glycaemic outcomes: the A1chieve observational study.
AB  - The prevalence of diabetes is increasing worldwide and India stands second next only to china. The management of diabetes in real life settings needs to be evaluated for deriving better management practices. A1chieve observational study evaluated the use of modern insulin in real life settings. This was a 24-week, international, prospective, multicenter, non-interventional, observational study of people with type 2 diabetes. India recruited with 20,554 subjects and a total of 1815 patients were enrolled to receive insulin aspart as bolus insulin therapy of whom 1450 (79.9%) were insulin nave and 365 (20.1%) were insulin users. At the end of 24 weeks, only one SAE was reported in this study and overall hypoglycemia events per patient year decreased from 2.49 (348 episodes) to 0.17 (20 episodes). There were no major hypoglycemic episodes reported in either insulin naive or insulin treated subjects. There was a significant improvement in the HbA(1c) values from the baseline in both insulin naive and insulin users. The mean HbA(1c) value was reduced from 9.5 to 7.4 (p < 0.001) for insulin nave subjects and from 9.2 to 7.7 (p < 0.001) in insulin experienced subjects. Fasting plasma glucose values decreased by 70 mg/dL and 50 mg/dL in insulin naive and insulin experienced, respectively and the difference from baseline was statistically significant (P < 0.001). The post prandial glucose value was also significantly (p < 0.001) reduced by 105 mg/dL for insulin nave subjects and 55 mg/dL for insulin experienced subjects. The composite end point was achieved by 46.6% of insulin naive and 38.1% of insulin-experienced subjects. The study concluded with good HbA(1c) reduction along with lower incidence of hypoglycemia and better health related quality of life outcomes in both in insulin naive and insulin experienced subjects who used insulin aspart as bolus insulin treatment.

UI  - 24482982
TI  - Initiating therapy or switching to biphasic insulin aspart improves glycaemic control in type 2 diabetes: an Indian experience from the A1chieve study.
AB  - Biphasic insulin aspart 30 (BIAsp 30) has been used in patients for almost a decade; There is a wealth of knowledge from clinical trials to document its efficacy and safety and suggest that BIAsp 30 is an option for initiation and intensification of insulin therapy in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). The A1chieve was a non-interventional study that explored the safety and effectiveness of initiating or switching to insulin analogues in routine clinical practice in more than 60,000 patients from 28 different countries. In this manuscript, we discuss the findings from the subgroup of the Indian cohort who were treated with BIAsp 30. In a cohort of 15287 who were on BIAsp 30, 12645 (83%) were insulin naive and 2642 (17%) had been on insulin therapy earlier. Glycaemic parameters were high at baseline. Mean (SD) HbA1c was 9.2% (1.3) in the these and was comparable in the insulin naive and insulin experienced groups. After 24 weeks of therapy with BIAsp 30, there were reductions in HbA1c in both the insulin naive group, [-1.8 (1.3)] and insulin experienced group [-1.6 (1.3)]. Fasting plasma glucose (FPG) and postprandial plasma glucose (PPG) levels were also reduced significantly from baseline [-3.4 (2.7) and -4.8 (3.8) mmol/L, respectively, p < 0.05). Overall, hypoglycaemia decreased from 1.33 events/patient years at baseline to 0.19 events/patient years at 24 weeks. There was also an increase in quality of life score as evaluated by EQ-5D questionnaire. Initiating insulin therapy with or switching to BIAsp 30 in patients with poor glycaemic control leads to an improvement in glycaemic profile with no major hypoglycaemia or clinically significant weight gain. Therapy with BIAsp 30 also improves the quality of life in patients with type 2 diabetes.

UI  - 24482981
TI  - Current glycemic status and diabetes related complications among type 2 diabetes patients in India: data from the A1chieve study.
AB  - Glycemic control in India is poor and this has resulted in a high prevalence of complications. This emphasizes the fact that effective control of T2DM is urgently needed to prevent or reduce the risk of developing the complications of diabetes in Indian T2DM patients.

UI  - 24482979
TI  - Importance of observational studies in understanding regional clinical practice: rationale and design of the A1chieve study.
AB  - 

UI  - 24482978
TI  - A note on the A1chieve study and the importance of disseminating our results.
AB  - 

UI  - 24482964
TI  - SPECT in asymptomatic diabetics with and without microalbuminuria.
AB  - Microalbuminuria is an inexpensive screening tool and a powerful independent predictor for major cardiovascular events in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. MPS is a sensitive, non invasive diagnostic test for identification of CAD in asymptomatic diabetic patients.

UI  - 24482945
TI  - Intramuscular ACTH stimulation test for assessment of adrenal function.
AB  - Intramuscular ACTH test using Acton Prolongatum is effective in evaluation of adrenal function in all suspected cases of primary or secondary adrenal insufficiency. Basal cortisol has poor sensitivity to diagnose AI.

UI  - 24481427
TI  - [Comparison of macular volume change after photocoagulation, in eyes with diabetic macular edema, with and without visual improvement].
AB  - The reduction of macular volume was not enough to explain visual improvement. Optimizing the outcome in patients with diabetic macular edema requires the identification of functional features with a prognostic value.

UI  - 24479633
TI  - An observational study of socioeconomic and clinical gradients among diabetes patients hospitalized for avoidable causes: evidence of underlying health disparities in China?
AB  - Among hospitalized diabetic patients, socioeconomic factors such as lower education attainment, rural residence and lack of full insurance are associated with avoidable hospitalizations or worse indicators of health. Although we cannot definitively rule out selection bias, these findings are consistent with health disparities observable even at the inpatient level. Future studies should study the underlying mechanism by which traditionally vulnerable groups are more likely to be hospitalized for avoidable causes and with greater severity of illness.

UI  - 24479142
TI  - Burden of sliding scale insulin use in elderly long-term care residents with type 2 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - SSI therapy is widely used in LTC facilities and is associated with a high fingerstick burden. SSI regimens are associated with poorer glycemic control but a rate of hypoglycemia similar to that of non-SSI regimens.

UI  - 24475922
TI  - The effect of empagliflozin on arterial stiffness and heart rate variability in subjects with uncomplicated type 1 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - NCT01392560.

UI  - 24473436
TI  - Effect of IL-6 on the insulin sensitivity in patients with type 2 diabetes.
AB  - Elevated interleukin-6 (IL-6) levels are associated with type 2 diabetes, but its role in glucose metabolism is controversial. We investigated the effect of IL-6 on insulin-stimulated glucose metabolism in type 2 diabetes patients and hypothesized that an acute, moderate IL-6 elevation would increase the insulin-mediated glucose uptake. Men with type 2 diabetes not treated with insulin [n = 9, age 54.9  9.7 (mean  SD) yr, body mass index 34.8  6.1 kg/m(2), HbA1c 7.0  1.0%] received continuous intravenous infusion with either recombinant human IL-6 (rhIL-6) or placebo. After 1 h with placebo or rhIL-6, a 3-h hyperinsulinemic-isoglycemic clamp was initiated. Whole body glucose metabolism was measured using stable isotope-labeled tracers. Signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) phosphorylation and suppressor of cytokine signaling 3 (SOCS3) expression were measured in muscle biopsies. Whole body energy expenditure was measured using indirect calorimetry. In response to the infusion of rhIL-6, circulating levels of IL-6 (P < 0.001), neutrophils (P < 0.001), and cortisol (P < 0.001) increased while lymphocytes decreased (P < 0.01). However, IL-6 infusion did not change glucose infusion rate, rate of appearance, or rate of disappearance during the clamp. While IL-6 enhanced phosphorylation of STAT3 in skeletal muscle (P = 0.041), the expression of SOCS3 remained unchanged. Whole body oxygen uptake (P < 0.01) and expired carbon dioxide (P < 0.01) increased during rhIL-6 infusion. In summary, although IL-6 induced local and systemic responses, the insulin-stimulated glucose uptake was not affected. While different contributing factors may be involved, our results are in contrast to our hypothesis and previous findings in young, healthy men.

UI  - 24473178
TI  - Collaterals at angiography and outcomes in the Interventional Management of Stroke (IMS) III trial.
AB  - http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00359424.

UI  - 24469880
TI  - Effect of ASA dose doubling versus switching to clopidogrel on plasma inflammatory markers concentration in patients with type 2 diabetes and high platelet reactivity: the AVOCADO study.
AB  - Increasing the dose of ASA from 75 mg to 150 mg daily or switching ASA 75 mg to clopidogrel 75 mg daily may reduce concentrations of some inflammatory markers (in particular hsCRP, IL-6 and CD40L) in T2DM patients with HPR treated previously with 75 mg of ASA.

UI  - 24463454
TI  - Metabolic response to sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 inhibition in type 2 diabetic patients.
AB  - In patients with type 2 diabetes, empagliflozin-induced glycosuria improved  cell function and insulin sensitivity, despite the fall in insulin secretion and tissue glucose disposal and the rise in EGP after one dose, thereby lowering fasting and postprandial glycemia. Chronic dosing shifted substrate utilization from carbohydrate to lipid. Trial registration. ClinicalTrials.Gov NCT01248364 (EudraCT no. 2010-018708-99). Funding. This study was funded by Boehringer Ingelheim.

UI  - 24463448
TI  - Dapagliflozin improves muscle insulin sensitivity but enhances endogenous glucose production.
AB  - Chronic hyperglycemia impairs insulin action, resulting in glucotoxicity, which can be ameliorated in animal models by inducing glucosuria with renal glucose transport inhibitors. Here, we examined whether reduction of plasma glucose with a sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 (SGLT2) inhibitor could improve insulin-mediated tissue glucose disposal in patients with type 2 diabetes. Eighteen diabetic men were randomized to receive either dapagliflozin (n = 12) or placebo (n = 6) for 2 weeks. We measured insulin-mediated whole body glucose uptake and endogenous glucose production (EGP) at baseline and 2 weeks after treatment using the euglycemic hyperinsulinemic clamp technique. Dapagliflozin treatment induced glucosuria and markedly lowered fasting plasma glucose. Insulin-mediated tissue glucose disposal increased by approximately 18% after 2 weeks of dapagliflozin treatment, while placebo-treated subjects had no change in insulin sensitivity. Surprisingly, following dapagliflozin treatment, EGP increased substantially and was accompanied by an increase in fasting plasma glucagon concentration. Together, our data indicate that reduction of plasma glucose with an agent that works specifically on the kidney to induce glucosuria improves muscle insulin sensitivity. However, glucosuria induction following SGLT2 inhibition is associated with a paradoxical increase in EGP. These results provide support for the glucotoxicity hypothesis, which suggests that chronic hyperglycemia impairs insulin action in individuals with type 2 diabetes.

UI  - 24462370
TI  - Causal effects of body mass index on cardiometabolic traits and events: a Mendelian randomization analysis.
AB  - Elevated body mass index (BMI) associates with cardiometabolic traits on observational analysis, yet the underlying causal relationships remain unclear. We conducted Mendelian randomization analyses by using a genetic score (GS) comprising 14 BMI-associated SNPs from a recent discovery analysis to investigate the causal role of BMI in cardiometabolic traits and events. We used eight population-based cohorts, including 34,538 European-descent individuals (4,407 type 2 diabetes (T2D), 6,073 coronary heart disease (CHD), and 3,813 stroke cases). A 1 kg/m(2) genetically elevated BMI increased fasting glucose (0.18 mmol/l; 95% confidence interval (CI) = 0.12-0.24), fasting insulin (8.5%; 95% CI = 5.9-11.1), interleukin-6 (7.0%; 95% CI = 4.0-10.1), and systolic blood pressure (0.70 mmHg; 95% CI = 0.24-1.16) and reduced high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (-0.02 mmol/l; 95% CI = -0.03 to -0.01) and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C; -0.04 mmol/l; 95% CI = -0.07 to -0.01). Observational and causal estimates were directionally concordant, except for LDL-C. A 1 kg/m(2) genetically elevated BMI increased the odds of T2D (odds ratio [OR] = 1.27; 95% CI = 1.18-1.36) but did not alter risk of CHD (OR 1.01; 95% CI = 0.94-1.08) or stroke (OR = 1.03; 95% CI = 0.95-1.12). A meta-analysis incorporating published studies reporting 27,465 CHD events in 219,423 individuals yielded a pooled OR of 1.04 (95% CI = 0.97-1.12) per 1 kg/m(2) increase in BMI. In conclusion, we identified causal effects of BMI on several cardiometabolic traits; however, whether BMI causally impacts CHD risk requires further evidence.

UI  - 24462012
TI  - Can group medical clinics improve lipid management in diabetes?
AB  - Group medical clinics appear to enhance lipid management among patients with diabetes and hypertension. This may be a result of greater intensification of cholesterol-lowering medications in group medical clinics relative to usual care.

UI  - 24449967
TI  - [Development of a protocol for counseling patients starting with oral hypoglycemic agents].
AB  - This study found that current counseLing practices for patients starting OHA can be improved. Our protocol could be a useful and feasible tool to facilitate implementation of first prescription counseling.

UI  - 24445089
TI  - Investigating the role of backward walking therapy in alleviating plantar pressure of patients with diabetic peripheral neuropathy.
AB  - The combination therapy of ALA and backward walking proved to be more effective than ALA monotherapy. Backward walking also proved to have an ameliorating effect on balance ability and muscle strength of patients with DPN.

UI  - 24440331
TI  - Comparison of intermediate-term outcomes of coronary artery bypass grafting versus drug-eluting stents for patients 75 years of age.
AB  - Several randomized controlled trials and observational studies have compared outcomes of percutaneous coronary interventions (PCIs) with drug-eluting stents (DESs) and coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG), but they have not thoroughly investigated the relative difference in outcomes for patients aged 75 years. In this study, a total of 3,864 patients receiving DES and CABG (1,932 CABG-DES pairs) with multivessel coronary disease were propensity matched using multiple patient risk factors and were compared with respect to 3 outcomes (mortality, stroke/myocardial infarction [MI]/mortality, and repeat revascularization) at 2.5 years with a mean follow-up of 18 months. The mortality rates (DES/CABG hazard ratio 1.06, 95% confidence interval 0.87 to 1.30) and the stroke/MI/mortality rates (DES/CABG hazard ratio 1.15, 95% confidence interval 0.97 to 1.38) for the 2 procedures were not significantly different. Repeat revascularization rates were significantly higher for patients who received DESs. In conclusion, older patients experienced similar mortality and stroke/MI/mortality rates for CABG and PCI with DES, although repeat revascularization rates were higher for patients undergoing PCI with DES.

UI  - 24439462
TI  - Refractive changes after pharmacologic resolution of diabetic macular edema.
AB  - Appropriate spectacle correction can be prescribed to patients with DME any time during ongoing therapy using antiedematous substances because resolution of retinal thickening is not associated with an increased risk of a myopic shift.

UI  - 24435025
TI  - Randomized trial of an electronic personal health record for patients with serious mental illnesses.
AB  - Having a personal health record resulted in significantly improved quality of medical care and increased use of medical services among patients. Personal health records could provide a relatively low-cost scalable strategy for improving medical care for patients with comorbid medical and serious mental illnesses.

UI  - 24433972
TI  - Qualitative and quantitative characteristics of near-infrared autofluorescence in diabetic macular edema.
AB  - Novel qualitative and quantitative NIR-AF characteristics in the macula indicated the clinical relevance and suggested the pathogenesis in DME.

UI  - 24432999
TI  - Dipeptidyl peptidase 4 inhibitor sitagliptin maintains -cell function in patients with recent-onset latent autoimmune diabetes in adults: one year prospective study.
AB  - LADA patients treated with sitagliptin and insulin maintained -cell function by comparison with insulin alone.

UI  - 24432996
TI  - Fasting serum taurine-conjugated bile acids are elevated in type 2 diabetes and do not change with intensification of insulin.
AB  - Fasting taurine-conjugated BA concentrations are higher in T2D and intermediate in impaired compared with normal glucose-tolerant persons and are associated with fasting and postload glucose. Serum BAs are not altered in T2D in response to improved glycemia. Further study may elucidate whether this pattern of taurine-BA conjugation can be targeted to provide novel therapeutic approaches to treat T2D.

UI  - 24432995
TI  - Chinese herbal medicine Tianqi reduces progression from impaired glucose tolerance to diabetes: a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, multicenter trial.
AB  - Treatment with a Tianqi capsule for 12 months significantly decreased the incidence of T2DM in subjects with IGT, and this herbal drug was safe to use.

UI  - 24428877
TI  - Flow-mediated-paradoxical vasoconstriction is independently associated with asymptomatic myocardial ischemia and coronary artery disease in type 2 diabetic patients.
AB  - Trial registration number NCT00685984.

UI  - 24428098
TI  - The Thai DMS Diabetes Complications (DD.Comp.) project: prevalence and risk factors of diabetic retinopathy in Thai patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - Diabetic retinopathy was present in about one fourth of type 2 diabetic patients in this study. Associated risk factors of DR were the duration of DM, HbA1c levels, and proteinuria. Regular screening for DR especially in T2DM with associated risk factor should be done for early treatment.

UI  - 24423342
TI  - The diagnostic and prognostic performance of a selective screening strategy for gestational diabetes mellitus according to ethnicity in Europe.
AB  - Standard selective screening criteria were not predictive of GDM in women from India-Pakistan-Sri Lanka and Asia and were associated with GDM-related events only in European and North African women. However, the women with GDM, who were routinely treated, had a poor prognosis, even for those free of RFs. These results support universal screening, irrespective of ethnicity.

UI  - 24423338
TI  - Association of adipose tissue and liver fibrosis with tissue stiffness in morbid obesity: links with diabetes and BMI loss after gastric bypass.
AB  - scWAT stiffness was associated with tissue fibrosis, obesity, and diabetes-related traits. Noninvasive evaluation of scWAT stiffness might be useful in clinical practice.

UI  - 24423311
TI  - Glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide: blood glucose stabilizing effects in patients with type 2 diabetes.
AB  - In patients with T2DM, GIP counteracts insulin-induced hypoglycemia, most likely through a predominant glucagonotropic effect. In contrast, during hyperglycemia, GIP increases glucose disposal through a predominant effect on insulin release.

UI  - 24423298
TI  - Short-term administration of pegvisomant improves hepatic insulin sensitivity and reduces soleus muscle intramyocellular lipid content in young adults with type 1 diabetes.
AB  - The study demonstrates that GH antagonism in T1D results in improved hepatic insulin sensitivity. Lack of consistent changes in free fatty acid levels may suggest a direct effect of GH on IS. Unchanged peripheral IS despite reductions in IMCL indicate that GH-induced alterations in IMCL may not be causally linked to glucose metabolism.

UI  - 24423149
TI  - Effects of saxagliptin on early microvascular changes in patients with type 2 diabetes.
AB  - The study was registered at (ID: NCT01319357).

UI  - 24423117
TI  - A randomised controlled trial of increasing fruit and vegetable intake and how this influences the carotenoid concentration and activities of PON-1 and LCAT in HDL from subjects with type 2 diabetes.
AB  - ISRCTN21676269.

UI  - 24422361
TI  - Management and control of patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus in Lebanon: results from the International Diabetes Management Practices Study (IDMPS).
AB  - For a proper assessment of diabetic control, maintaining adherence to international guidelines needs to be evaluated. Promoting patient education, improving physician knowledge with better implementation of guidelines is recommended.

UI  - 24421302
TI  - The effect of alogliptin and pioglitazone combination therapy on various aspects of -cell function in patients with recent-onset type 2 diabetes.
AB  - Short-term treatment with ALO/PIO or ALO improved glycemic control in well-controlled T2DM patients, but only combined ALO/PIO improved -cell function. These data support that initial combination therapy with a DPP4 inhibitor and TZD to address multiple core defects in T2DM may be a sensible approach.

UI  - 24419482
TI  - A small particle size diet reduces upper gastrointestinal symptoms in patients with diabetic gastroparesis: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - A small particle diet improves the key symptoms of gastroparesis in patients with diabetes mellitus. (ClinicalTrials.gov NCT01557296).

UI  - 24415271
TI  - Zofenopril plus hydrochlorothiazide and irbesartan plus hydrochlorothiazide in previously treated and uncontrolled diabetic and non-diabetic essential hypertensive patients.
AB  - In previously monotherapy-treated, uncontrolled patients with hypertension, zofenopril 30-60mg+HCTZ 12.5mg is as effective as irbesartan 150-300mg plus HCTZ 12.5mg, with the added value of a potential protective effect against vascular inflammation.

UI  - 24412929
TI  - Impact of insulins glulisine and aspart on postprandial glycemia after a high-glycemic index meal in children with type 1 diabetes.
AB  - No statistically significant difference was found between GLU and ASP with regard to PPG after the consumption of a H-GI breakfast. Neither GLU nor ASP stabilized the glycemic profile after the consumption of a H-GI meal.

UI  - 24412444
TI  - Resting heart rate as predictor for left ventricular dysfunction and heart failure: MESA (Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis).
AB  - Elevated resting heart rate was associated with increased risk for incident HF in asymptomatic participants in the MESA trial. Higher heart rate was related to development of regional and global LV dysfunction independent of subclinical atherosclerosis and coronary heart disease. (Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis [MESA]; NCT00005487).

UI  - 24411997
TI  - U-shaped association of sleep duration with metabolic syndrome and insulin resistance in patients with type 2 diabetes: the Fukuoka Diabetes Registry.
AB  - Sleep duration was shown to have a U-shaped relationship with metabolic syndrome and insulin resistance, independent of potential confounders, and therefore may be an important modifiable risk factor for CVD prevention in patients with type 2 diabetes.

UI  - 24410834
TI  - Low serum docosahexaenoic acid is associated with progression of coronary atherosclerosis in statin-treated patients with diabetes mellitus: results of the treatment with statin on atheroma regression evaluated by intravascular ultrasound with virtual histology (TRUTH) study.
AB  - UMIN Clinical Trials Registry, UMIN ID: C000000311.

UI  - 24403477
TI  - Zinc supplementation improves anticancer activity of monocytes in type-2 diabetic patients with metabolic syndrome.
AB  - Because functional transmembrane TNF- was shown to be implicated in defense mechanisms, these findings suggest that zinc supplementation may benefit immune response against cancer in patients with DM and metabolic syndrome.

UI  - 24402015
TI  - Exenatide improves type 2 diabetes concomitant with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.
AB  - Compared with metformin, exenatide is better to control blood glucose, reduces body weight and improves hepatic enzymes, attenuating NAFLD in patients with T2DM concomitant with NAFLD.

UI  - 24398851
TI  - Long-term progression of abnormal glucose tolerance and its relationship with the metabolic syndrome after kidney transplantation.
AB  - MS is a risk factor for the progression of glucose intolerance in renal transplant recipients in the late posttransplant period. Therefore, MS has to be considered in tandem with OGTT results to assess cardiovascular risk.

UI  - 24393747
TI  - Urinary tract infection in randomized phase III studies of canagliflozin, a sodium glucose co-transporter 2 inhibitor.
AB  - Canagliflozin was associated with a small increase in incidence of UTIs in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus, with no increase in serious or upper UTIs.

UI  - 24393423
TI  - Step Monitoring to improve ARTERial health (SMARTER) through step count prescription in type 2 diabetes and hypertension: trial design and methods.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT01475201).

UI  - 24393402
TI  - Exercise increases serum endostatin levels in female and male patients with diabetes and controls.
AB  - Clinical Trial Registration-URL: http://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/results?term=NCT01165515.

UI  - 24393375
TI  - Novel association of the obesity risk-allele near Fas Apoptotic Inhibitory Molecule 2 (FAIM2) gene with heart rate and study of its effects on myocardial infarction in diabetic participants of the PREDIMED trial.
AB  - We confirmed the FAIM2-rs7138803 relationship with obesity and identified novel and consistent associations with heart rate in particular in type 2 diabetic subjects. Furthermore, our results suggest a possible association of this polymorphism with higher myocardial infarction risk in type-2 diabetic subjects, although this result needs to be replicated as it could represent a false positive.

UI  - 24392604
TI  - Development and validation of the Lifestyle Self-Efficacy Scale for Latinos with Diabetes (LSESLD).
AB  - The LSESLD is a reliable and valid research instrument assessing self-efficacy related to diabetes self-management among low-income, Spanish-speaking populations.

UI  - 24392599
TI  - Impact of race/ethnicity on efficacy and safety of two starter insulin regimens in patients with type 2 diabetes: a posthoc analysis of the DURABLE trial.
AB  - There were significant efficacy and safety differences among racial/ethnic groups in the DURABLE trial. These differences may be important in designing insulin based treatment plans.

UI  - 24386357
TI  - Survival advantage of peritoneal dialysis relative to hemodialysis in the early period of incident dialysis patients: a nationwide prospective propensity-matched study in Korea.
AB  - PD exhibits superior survival to HD in the early period of dialysis, even after adjusting for differences in the patients' characteristics between the two modalities. Notably, the most common cause of death was infection in this Korean cohort.

UI  - 24385273
TI  - Prognostic value of plasma -amyloid levels in patients with acute intracerebral hemorrhage.
AB  - High levels of plasma A42 in patients with acute intracerebral hemorrhage are associated with a poor functional prognosis.

UI  - 24385236
TI  - Efficacy and safety of ETC-1002, a novel investigational low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol-lowering therapy for the treatment of patients with hypercholesterolemia and type 2 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT# 01607294.

UI  - 24383855
TI  - Increased Th1 and suppressed Th2 serum cytokine levels in subjects with diabetic coronary artery disease.
AB  - In conclusion, from the present study it appears that transition from T2DM or CAD to T2DM-CAD co-morbidity is associated with strong down regulation of Th2 cytokines and enhancement of Th1 responses.

UI  - 24383328
TI  - Hypoglycemic activity of Ficus racemosa bark in combination with oral hypoglycemic drug in diabetic human.
AB  - Medicinal herbs, used in indigenous medicines in crude forms for the management of diabetes mellitus, contain both the organic and inorganic constituents. The aim of the study was to find out the hypoglycemic effect of Ficus racemosa in a group of diabetic subjects taking oral hypoglycemic drug. Twenty five of each, male and female, diabetic patients, selected from Fatima Jinnah Medical College, Lahore, Pakistan, taking oral hypoglycemic drug were included in this study and were given orally the extract (5 mL) of bark of Ficus racemosa (about 100 mg) two times for 15 days. Blood samples for estimation of blood glucose and parameters of liver and renal functions were estimated. It was observed that after taking the herb in combination with drug, blood glucose level (fasting and after breakfast) was markedly decreased in both male and female but significant difference was only observed in sugar level of males after 1.5 h after breakfast. To rule out herb toxicity, liver and renal functions tests of patients was also performed which were observed to be in normal range. Present investigation established a pharmacological evidence to support the folklore claim that Ficus racemosa is good anti-diabetic agent.

UI  - 24379274
TI  - VAP-1 in peritoneally dialyzed patients.
AB  - VAP-1 (vascular adhesion protein-1) possesses semicarbazide-sensitive amine oxidase (SSAO) activity. It has also been found that serum VAP-1 was elevated in acute and chronic hyperglycemia and in patients with diabetes as well as in chronic kidney disease. Renalase, with possible monoamine oxidase activity, which breaks down catecholamines such as SSAO, is expressed in the endothelium as well as in the kidney. The aim of the study was to assess serum VAP-1 levels in peritoneally dialyzed (PD) patients and factors explaining its variability. This pilot study was performed on 25 peritoneally dialyzed patients, including 4 patients with type 2 diabetes. We found that the mean VAP-1 was significantly higher in chronic ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) patients when compared to the control group (p<0.05). Dopamine was significantly lower in PD patients when compared to the healthy volunteers (p<0.05), whereas noradrenaline was significantly higher in PD patients relative to the healthy volunteers (p<0.01). There was a significant difference in the VAP-1 concentration in the group with and without residual renal function (p<0.05) as well as between 10 patients with hyperglycemia when compared to patients with normoglycemia (p<0.05). There was no effect of gender on the serum VAP-1 levels. In PD patients VAP-1 correlated with systolic blood pressure (r=-0.4, p<005), residual renal function (r=-0.62, p<0.05), and glucose (=0.54, p<0.05). We concluded that VAP-1, elevated in patients on PD, was predominantly dependent on residual kidney function and glucose level, factors both linked to endothelial damage and cardiovascular complications.

UI  - 24379248
TI  - Different mortality predictor pattern in hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis diabetic patients in 4-year prospective observation.
AB  - 1. A difference in mortality predictor pattern appeared in diabetic patients treated by PD and HD. 2. In the PD group more advanced age had a decisive negative impact on survival whereas in the HD group the outlook was dependent on factors related to nutrition and inflammation. 3. Elevated cholesterol level was associated with survival benefit in HD patients, being a common abnormality in the PD group, without positive prognostic significance.

UI  - 24369764
TI  - Patient-reported outcomes among patients using exenatide twice daily or insulin in clinical practice in six European countries: the CHOICE prospective observational study.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT00635492.

UI  - 24369008
TI  - Baseline obesity status modifies effectiveness of adapted diabetes prevention program lifestyle interventions for weight management in primary care.
AB  - Baseline BMI may influence behavioral weight-loss treatment effectiveness. Researchers and clinicians should take an individual's baseline BMI into account when developing or recommending lifestyle focused treatment strategy. This trial is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00842426.

UI  - 24362661
TI  - Gross correlation between waist hip ratio and blood sugar level in a village.
AB  - Increase in waist hip ratio is associated with increase in random blood sugar level. Therefore, there is a need of public awareness program to reduce waist circumference thus reducing weight of people to prevent development of diabetes mellitus in long run.

UI  - 24362653
TI  - Acute coronary syndrome in an intensive care unit of a tertiary care centre: the spectrum and coronary risk factors.
AB  - The ST elevation myocardial infarction was the major clinical form of acute coronary syndrome admitted in intensive care unit. Prevention should be targeted on modi able risk factors such as the management of hypertension, dyslipidemia, diabetes and obesity. In addition, the improvement in cardiology service with the establishment of CCU and cathlab might improve the mortality and morbidity in such cases.

UI  - 24359514
TI  - People living in hilly residential areas in metropolitan Perth have less diabetes: spurious association or important environmental determinant?
AB  - Living in a hilly neighbourhood may be protective of diabetes onset or this finding is spurious. Nevertheless, the results are promising and have implications for future research and the practice of flattening land in new housing developments.

UI  - 24356886
TI  - Xenin-25 delays gastric emptying and reduces postprandial glucose levels in humans with and without type 2 diabetes.
AB  - Xenin-25 (Xen) is a neurotensin-related peptide secreted by a subset of glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide (GIP)-producing enteroendocrine cells. In animals, Xen regulates gastrointestinal function and glucose homeostasis, typically by initiating neural relays. However, little is known about Xen action in humans. This study determines whether exogenously administered Xen modulates gastric emptying and/or insulin secretion rates (ISRs) following meal ingestion. Fasted subjects with normal (NGT) or impaired (IGT) glucose tolerance and Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM; n = 10-14 per group) ingested a liquid mixed meal plus acetaminophen (ACM; to assess gastric emptying) at time zero. On separate occasions, a primed-constant intravenous infusion of vehicle or Xen at 4 (Lo-Xen) or 12 (Hi-Xen) pmol  kg(-1)  min(-1) was administered from zero until 300 min. Some subjects with NGT received 30- and 90-min Hi-Xen infusions. Plasma ACM, glucose, insulin, C-peptide, glucagon, Xen, GIP, and glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) levels were measured and ISRs calculated. Areas under the curves were compared for treatment effects. Infusion with Hi-Xen, but not Lo-Xen, similarly delayed gastric emptying and reduced postprandial glucose levels in all groups. Infusions for 90 or 300 min, but not 30 min, were equally effective. Hi-Xen reduced plasma GLP-1, but not GIP, levels without altering the insulin secretory response to glucose. Intense staining for Xen receptors was detected on PGP9.5-positive nerve fibers in the longitudinal muscle of the human stomach. Thus Xen reduces gastric emptying in humans with and without T2DM, probably via a neural relay. Moreover, endogenous GLP-1 may not be a major enhancer of insulin secretion in healthy humans under physiological conditions.

UI  - 24355614
TI  - Effect of socioeconomic disparities on incidence of dementia among biracial older adults: prospective study.
AB  - These findings suggest that differences in the burden of risk factors, especially socioeconomic status, may contribute to the higher rates of dementia seen among black compared with white older people. Strategies aimed at reducing these disparities may favorably affect the incidence of dementia.

UI  - 24354899
TI  - A multicentre randomized controlled trial of an empowerment-inspired intervention for adolescents starting continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion--a study protocol.
AB  - In this study, we will assess the effect of starting an CSII together with the model of GSD to determine whether this approach leads to retention of improved glycaemic control, QoL, responsibility distribution and reduced diabetes-related conflicts in the family.

UI  - 24352521
TI  - Association between plasma triglycerides and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol and microvascular kidney disease and retinopathy in type 2 diabetes mellitus: a global case-control study in 13 countries.
AB  - Diabetic kidney disease is associated worldwide with higher levels of plasma triglycerides and lower levels of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol among patients with good control of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol. Retinopathy was less robustly associated with these lipids. These results strengthen the rationale for studying dyslipidemia treatment to prevent diabetic microvascular disease.

UI  - 24351875
TI  - Pregnancy and Glycemic Index Outcomes study: effects of low glycemic index compared with conventional dietary advice on selected pregnancy outcomes.
AB  - A low-intensity dietary intervention with an LGI diet compared with an HE diet in pregnancy did not result in any significant differences in birth weight, fetal percentile, or PI.

UI  - 24346989
TI  - The effect of nonsurgical periodontal therapy on hemoglobin A1c levels in persons with type 2 diabetes and chronic periodontitis: a randomized clinical trial.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00997178.

UI  - 24346576
TI  - [Fatality and hospitalization in hemodialysis patients in a health plan].
AB  - Assessment by a specialist before starting hemodialysis decreases the risk of death in cases of chronic kidney disease, whereas the presence of diabetes and being hospitalized within a month of beginning hemodialysis are markers of risk of death.

UI  - 24344596
TI  - [Quality of life in patients with diabetes using the Diabetes 39 (D-39) instrument].
AB  - The purpose of this study is to investigate the specific quality of life of patients with diabetes mellitus. It is a cross-sectional study, which was conducted from August 2-28, 2012 in two basic health units, in the interior of So Paulo. A convenience sample, made up of 75 patients, 18 years old or older, both sexes, in a group of self-monitoring of blood glucose, was used. The Diabetes 39 (D-39) Instrument Evaluation, containing five dimensions: energy and mobility (15 items), diabetes control (12), anxiety and worry (4) social overload (5) and sexual behavior (3), was used. Quality of life proved to be highly affected in the items related to the social overload dimension, embarrassment for having diabetes, being called diabetic and diabetes interfering with family life. The elucidation of the assessed factors contributes to the planning of educational programs, insofar as they may hinder the achievement of metabolic control in patients with diabetes.

UI  - 24341049
TI  - Glucosa-Insulin-Potassium (GIK) solution used with diabetic patients provides better recovery after coronary bypass operations.
AB  - Intraoperative GIK solution given to diabetic patients with CABG operation provides more stable CI, shorter time of MV, more stable values of potassium which provides normal rhythm and less AF onset, less insulin to maintain target glycemia. All the above mentioned provides more stable intraoperative hemodynamic and better recovery of diabetic

UI  - 24340836
TI  - Association of the M3151 variant in the transient receptor potential vanilloid receptor-1 (TRPV1) gene with type 1 diabetes in an Ashkenazi Jewish population.
AB  - Our study demonstrates that TRPV1 may be a susceptible gene for type 1 diabetes in an Ashkenazi Jewish population. These results should be replicated in the same ethnic group and in other ethnic groups.

UI  - 24336915
TI  - Reduction of interleukin 8 and platelet-derived growth factor levels by topical ketorolac, 0.45%, in patients with diabetic retinopathy.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT01609881.

UI  - 24336297
TI  - Intravitreal bevacizumab (Avastin) versus triamcinolone (Volon A) for treatment of diabetic macular edema: one-year results.
AB  - Intravitreal bevacizumab and triamcinolone are both equally effective in reducing CSRT in early DME. After 6 months, rehabilitation of vision was comparable in both treatment arms, whereas at the final follow-up at month 12, BCVA was superior in the bevacizumab than in the triamcinolone sample. This may be related to cataract development following steroid treatment, as well as to substance-specific mechanisms within the angiogenic versus the inflammatory cascade.

UI  - 24335915
TI  - Errors in preparation and administration of insulin in two urban Vietnamese hospitals: an observational study.
AB  - Interventions suitable for resource-restricted settings need to be developed and tested to improve insulin preparation and administration, probably starting with education and providing information, especially infusion doses.

UI  - 24334868
TI  - Effects of freeze-dried strawberry supplementation on metabolic biomarkers of atherosclerosis in subjects with type 2 diabetes: a randomized double-blind controlled trial.
AB  - FDS improved glycemic control and antioxidant status, and reduced lipid peroxidation and inflammatory response in patients with T2D. Supplementation with freeze-dried berry products, as natural sources of antioxidants with low glycemic index, could be considered as an adjunctive therapy in ameliorating metabolic complications of T2D.

UI  - 24334483
TI  - Whole-body vibration training improves balance, muscle strength and glycosylated hemoglobin in elderly patients with diabetic neuropathy.
AB  - Elderly patients with diabetes and peripheral neuropathy are more likely to experience falls. However, the information available on how such falls can be prevented is scarce. We investigated the effects of whole-body vibration (WBV) combined with a balance exercise program on balance, muscle strength, and glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c) in elderly patients with diabetic peripheral neuropathy. Fifty-five elderly patients with diabetic neuropathy were randomly assigned to WBV with balance exercise group, balance exercise (BE) group, and control group. The WBV and BE groups performed the balance exercise program for 60 min per day, 2 times per week, for 6 weeks. Further, the WBV group performed WBV training (up to 3  3 min, 3 times per week, for 6 weeks). The control group did not participate in any training. The main outcome measures were assessed at baseline and after 6 weeks of training; namely, we assessed the postural sway and one leg stance (OLS) for static balance; Berg balance scale (BBS), timed up-and-go (TUG) test, and functional reach test (FRT) for dynamic balance; five-times-sit-to-stand (FTSTS) test for muscle strength; and HbA1c for predicting the progression of diabetes. Significant improvements were noted in the static balance, dynamic balance, muscle strength, and HbA1c in the WBV group, compared to the BE and control groups (P < 0.05). Thus, in combination with the balance exercise program, the short-term WBV therapy is beneficial in improving balance, muscle strength and HbA1c, in elderly patients with diabetic neuropathy who are at high risk for suffering falls.

UI  - 24334175
TI  - Renal hemodynamic effect of sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 inhibition in patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT01392560.

UI  - 24331774
TI  - Periodontal treatment with topical antibiotics improves glycemic control in association with elevated serum adiponectin in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - The results demonstrated that periodontal treatment improves periodontal status and glycemic control with elevation of serum adiponectin in type 2 diabetic patients. The results suggest that HbA1c is reduced by amelioration of insulin resistance due to elevated serum adiponectin after periodontal treatments.

UI  - 24331681
TI  - The effects of partial use of formula diet on weight reduction and metabolic variables in obese type 2 diabetic patients--multicenter trial.
AB  - Partial use of formula diet was much more effective in reducing body weight, and also in improving coronary risk factors than conventional diet in part due to reduced body weight through decreased energy diet intake and due to dietary composition of the formula diet.

UI  - 24330576
TI  - Impact of dietary fiber intake on glycemic control, cardiovascular risk factors and chronic kidney disease in Japanese patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus: the Fukuoka Diabetes Registry.
AB  - We demonstrated that increased dietary fiber intake was associated with better glycemic control and more favorable cardiovascular disease risk factors including chronic kidney disease in Japanese type 2 diabetic patients. Diabetic patients should be encouraged to consume more dietary fiber in daily life.

UI  - 24329831
TI  - Effect and sustainability of pharmacy outreach services in elderly adults: a 5-year experience in Hong Kong.
AB  - 

UI  - 24324048
TI  - Effects of combination of perindopril, indapamide, and calcium channel blockers in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus: results from the Action In Diabetes and Vascular Disease: Preterax and Diamicron Controlled Evaluation (ADVANCE) trial.
AB  - The objective of the present analysis was to determine the effects of a fixed combination of perindopril and indapamide in combination with calcium channel blockers (CCBs) in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. The Action in Diabetes and Vascular Disease: Preterax and Diamicron Controlled Evaluation (ADVANCE) trial was a factorial randomized controlled trial. A total of 11140 patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus were randomly assigned to fixed combination of perindopril-indapamide (4/1.25 mg) or placebo. Effects of randomized treatment on mortality and major cardiovascular outcomes were examined in subgroups defined by baseline use of CCBs. Patients on CCB at baseline (n=3427) constituted a higher risk group compared with those not on CCB (n=7713), with more extensive use of antihypertensive and other protective therapies. Active treatment reduced the relative risk of death by 28% (95% confidence interval, 10%-43%) among patients with CCB at baseline compared with 5% (-12% to 20%) among those without CCB (P homogeneity=0.02) and 14% (2%-25%) for the whole population. Similarly, the relative risk reduction for major cardiovascular events was 12% (-8% to 28%) versus 6% (-10% to 19%) for those with and without CCB at baseline although the difference was not statistically significant (P homogeneity=0.38). There was no detectable increase in adverse effects in those receiving CCB. The combination of perindopril and indapamide with CCBs seems to provide further protection against mortality in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus.

UI  - 24324035
TI  - Refractory hypertension: determination of prevalence, risk factors, and comorbidities in a large, population-based cohort.
AB  - Refractory hypertension is an extreme phenotype of antihypertensive treatment failure. Participants in the REasons for Geographic And Racial Differences in Stroke (REGARDS) Study, a large (n=30 239), population-based cohort were evaluated to determine the prevalence of refractory hypertension and associated cardiovascular risk factors and comorbidities. Refractory hypertension was defined as uncontrolled blood pressure (systolic/diastolic, 140/90 mm Hg) on 5 antihypertensive drug classes. Participants with resistant hypertension (systolic/diastolic, 140/90 mm Hg on 3 or <140/90 mm Hg on 4 antihypertensive classes) and all participants treated for hypertension served as comparator groups. Of 14 809 REGARDS participants receiving antihypertensive treatment, 78 (0.5%) had refractory hypertension. The prevalence of refractory hypertension was 3.6% among participants with resistant hypertension (n=2144) and 41.7% among participants on 5 antihypertensive drug classes. Among all participants with hypertension, black race, male sex, living in the stroke belt or buckle, higher body mass index, lower heart rate, reduced estimated glomerular filtration rate, albuminuria, diabetes mellitus, and history of stroke and coronary heart disease were associated with refractory hypertension. Compared with resistant hypertension, prevalence ratios for refractory hypertension were increased for blacks (3.00; 95% confidence interval, 1.68-5.37) and those with albuminuria (2.22; 95% confidence interval, 1.40-3.52) and diabetes mellitus (2.09; 95% confidence interval, 1.32-3.31). The median 10-year Framingham risk for coronary heart disease and stroke was higher among participants with refractory hypertension when compared with those with either comparator group. These data indicate that although resistant hypertension is relatively common among treated patients with hypertension, true antihypertensive treatment failure is rare.

UI  - 24322626
TI  - Assessing potential glycemic overtreatment in persons at hypoglycemic risk.
AB  - Patients with risk factors for serious hypoglycemia represent a large subset of individuals receiving hypoglycemic agents; approximately one-half had evidence of intensive treatment. A patient safety indicator derived from administrative data can identify high-risk patients for whom reevaluation of glycemic management may be appropriate, consistent with meaningful use criteria for electronic medical records.

UI  - 24322595
TI  - Rates of complications and mortality in older patients with diabetes mellitus: the diabetes and aging study.
AB  - Duration of diabetes and advancing age independently predict diabetes morbidity and mortality rates. As long-term survivorship with diabetes increases and as the population ages, more research and public health efforts to reduce hypoglycemia will be needed to complement ongoing efforts to reduce cardiovascular and microvascular complications.

UI  - 24322398
TI  - Role of diuretics,  blockers, and statins in increasing the risk of diabetes in patients with impaired glucose tolerance: reanalysis of data from the NAVIGATOR study.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00097786.

UI  - 24321358
TI  - Outcome accuracy of the Emergency Medical Dispatcher's initial selection of a diabetic problems protocol.
AB  - Using the MPDS to select the Diabetic Problems Chief Complaint protocol, the EMDs correctly identified a true diabetic-triggered event the majority of the time. However, many patients had other medical conditions, which complicated the initial classification of true diabetic-triggered events. Future studies should examine the associations between the five specific Diabetic Problems Chief Complaint protocol determinant codes (triage priority levels) and severity measures, eg, blood sugar level and Glasgow Coma Score.

UI  - 24316326
TI  - Changes in cognitive function from presurgery to 4 months postsurgery in individuals undergoing dysvascular amputation.
AB  - Overall cognitive performance is poorest presurgically. Though there is improvement between pre- and postamputation, cognition appears generally stable between 6 weeks and 4 months.

UI  - 24315768
TI  - Thyroid function, cardiovascular events, and mortality in diabetic hemodialysis patients.
AB  - Sudden cardiac death may be influenced by subclinical hyperthyroidism and euthyroid sick syndrome in the short term. Furthermore, euthyroid sick syndrome is associated strongly with mortality in hemodialysis patients. Regular assessment of thyroid status may help estimate the cardiac risk of dialysis patients.

UI  - 24315111
TI  - Impact of diabetes mellitus on early and midterm outcomes after transcatheter aortic valve implantation (from a multicenter registry).
AB  - Several clinical and procedural factors have been identified as predictors of early and midterm events after transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI), but incidence and prognostic impact of diabetes mellitus (DM), especially insulin treated, on short- and midterm outcomes remain to be defined. All consecutive patients who underwent TAVI at our institutions were enrolled and stratified according to DM status. All-cause mortality at 30 days or in hospital and at follow-up was the primary end point, whereas periprocedural complications, rates of myocardial infarction, stroke, and reintervention at follow-up were the secondary ones. All end points were adjudicated according to the Valve Academic Research Consortium definitions. In all, 511 patients were enrolled: 361 without DM, 78 with orally treated DM, and 72 with insulin-treated DM. Orally treated DM patients were more frequently women, whereas insulin-treated DM patients were younger. Thirty-day Valve Academic Research Consortium mortality was not significantly higher in patients with orally treated DM and insulin-treated DM compared with patients without diabetes (6.4%, 9.7%, and 4.7%, p = 0.09). Bleedings, vascular complications, postprocedural acute kidney injury, and periprocedural strokes were not significantly different in the 3 groups. At midterm follow-up (median 400 days), patients with insulin-treated DM had a significantly higher mortality rate (33.3% vs 18.6%, p = 0.01) and higher myocardial infarction incidence (8.3% vs 1.4%, p = 0.002) if compared with patients without diabetes. Strokes and reinterventions at follow-up were similar in the 3 groups. After multivariable adjustment, insulin-treated DM was independently correlated with death (hazard ratio 2, 95% confidence interval 1.3 to 3.3) and myocardial infarction (hazard ratio 3.73, 95% confidence interval 1.1 to 13). In conclusion, DM does not significantly affect rates of complications in patients who underwent TAVI. Insulin-treated DM, but not orally treated DM, is independently associated with death and myocardial infarction at midterm follow-up and should be included into future TAVI-dedicated scores.

UI  - 24314976
TI  - Predictive factors of infection in the first year after kidney transplantation.
AB  - The prevalence of infections in the 1st year after kidney transplantation is very high, occurring mainly in the early period, in the urinary tract, and due to E. coli. Cytomegalovirus replication is associated with a higher number of infections and higher serum creatinine at 1 year. Body mass index is a predictor of early infection and of bacteremia in the post-transplantation period. Basiliximab induction and having a double-J stent were predictors of severe infections.

UI  - 24312484
TI  - Factors associated with knowledge of diabetes in patients with type 2 diabetes using the Diabetes Knowledge Test validated with Rasch analysis.
AB  - Sociodemographic, clinical and service use factors were independently associated with diabetes knowledge based on both raw scores and Rasch-derived scores, which supports the implementation of targeted interventions to improve patients' knowledge. Choice of psychometric analytical method can affect study outcomes and should be considered during intervention development.

UI  - 24309926
TI  - Pilot study of individuals with diabetic macular edema undergoing cataract surgery.
AB  - 

UI  - 24308219
TI  - Ambulatory blood pressure monitoring in diabetic hypertensive patients, single center report--preliminary results.
AB  - ABPM (ambulatory blood pressure monitoring) has been considered to be a useful tool for the diagnosis and management of arterial hypertension and is a better predictor of future cardiovascular events as compared with conventional office-based BP measurements. Despite its potential values, ABPM is not yet widely used in many clinical offices mainly because of lack of knowledge and unavailability. Aims of this preliminary study are to determine the control of hypertension and circadian BP characteristics in patients referred to our Centre whom we enrolled in the "HRKMAT" Study-Croatian Registry of ABPM. Although patients included in HRKMAT Study had other risk factors for cardiovascular diseases, in this paper we analyzed differences between hypertensive diabetics (N = 20) and nondiabetics (N = 57). 24-hours ABPM was performed with an automated oscillometric device Mobil-O-Graph NG Vers.20 and office BP using mercury sphygmomanometer. Average office BP was 139/90 mmHg, and average 24h ABPM was 130/82 mmHg. Majority of hypertensive patients used antihypertensive drugs (79.2%). Diabetic patients had higher systolic BP but lower diastolic BP. There were no statistically significant differences in dipping status, but earlier BP surge was noticed in reverse diabetic dippers than in reverse non-diabetic dippers. Though no significant, there was higher prevalence of WCH ("white coat hypertension") in diabetics, and we found MH (masked hypertension) in only two patients. These are preliminary results on ABPM from our centre and of HRKMAT registry. Further and more valuable data and results are awaited from the main HRKMAT database.

UI  - 24306153
TI  - Comparative effectiveness of bariatric surgery vs. nonsurgical treatment of type 2 diabetes among severely obese adults.
AB  - Although all weight-loss approaches may improve insulin sensitivity in type 2 diabetes, bariatric surgery is believed to be the only reliable means of achieving diabetes remission. We conducted a retrospective cohort study to compare rates of diabetes remission, relapse and all-cause mortality among severely obese individuals with diabetes who underwent bariatric surgery vs. nonsurgically treated individuals. Severely obese adults with uncontrolled or medication-controlled diabetes who underwent bariatric surgery or received usual medical care from 2005 to 2008 in three health care delivery systems in the United States were eligible. Diabetes status was identified using pharmacy, laboratory, and diagnosis information from electronic medical records. A propensity approach and exclusion criteria identified 1395 adults with diabetes who had bariatric surgery and 62,322 who did not. Most procedures were Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (72.0% laparoscopic; 8.2% open); 4.4% were gastric banding, 2.4% sleeve gastrectomy, and 13.2% were other procedures. At two years, bariatric subjects experienced significantly higher diabetes remission rates [73.7% (95% CI: 70.6, 76.5)] compared to nonsurgical subjects [6.9% (95%CI: 6.9, 7.1)]. Age, site, duration of diabetes, hemoglobin A1c level, and intensity of diabetes medication treatment were significantly associated with remission. Bariatric subjects also experienced lower relapse rates than nonsurgical subjects (adjusted HR: 0.19; 95% CI: 0.15-0.23) with no higher risk of death (adjusted HR: 0.54; 95% CI: 0.22-1.30). We conclude that bariatric surgery can effectively induce remission of diabetes among most severely obese adults, and this treatment approach appears to be superior to nonsurgical treatment in inducing diabetes remission.

UI  - 24304990
TI  - Efficacy of metformin versus insulin in the management of pregnancy with diabetes.
AB  - There was no marked difference in efficacy of metformin and insulin in controlling diabetes in pregnant patients in two groups.

UI  - 24298628
TI  - [Hepatocellular carcinoma - metformin reduces the risk of type 2 diabetes in a dose-dependent manner].
AB  - 

UI  - 24297090
TI  - Does dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibition prevent the diabetogenic effects of glucocorticoids in men with the metabolic syndrome? A randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Fourteen-day treatment with high-dose prednisolone impaired postprandial glucose metabolism in subjects with the metabolic syndrome. Concomitant treatment with sitagliptin improved various aspects of pancreatic islet-cell function, but did not prevent deterioration of glucose tolerance by GC treatment.

UI  - 24296715
TI  - Defining the role of GLP-1 in the enteroinsulinar axis in type 2 diabetes using DPP-4 inhibition and GLP-1 receptor blockade.
AB  - Understanding the incretin pathway has led to significant advancements in the treatment of type 2 diabetes (T2D). Still, the exact mechanisms are not fully understood. In a randomized, placebo-controlled, four-period, crossover study in 24 patients with T2D, dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibition and its glucose-lowering actions were tested after an oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT). The contribution of GLP-1 was examined by infusion of the GLP-1 receptor (GLP-1r) antagonist exendin-9. DPP-4 inhibition reduced glycemia and enhanced insulin levels and the incretin effect (IE). Glucagon was suppressed, and gastric emptying (GE) was decelerated. Exendin-9 increased glucose levels and glucagon secretion, attenuated insulinemia and the IE, and accelerated GE. With the GLP-1r antagonist, the glucose-lowering effects of DPP-4 inhibition were reduced by  50%. However, a significant effect on insulin secretion remained during GLP-1r blockade, whereas the inhibitory effects of DPP-4 inhibition on glucagon and GE were abolished. Thus, in this cohort of T2D patients with a substantial IE, GLP-1 contributed  50% to the insulin excursion after an OGTT with and without DPP-4 inhibition. Thus, a significant DPP-4-sensitive glucose-lowering mechanism contributes to glycemic control in T2D patients that may be not mediated by circulating GLP-1.

UI  - 24296713
TI  - Limited recovery of -cell function after gastric bypass despite clinical diabetes remission.
AB  - The mechanisms responsible for the remarkable remission of type 2 diabetes after Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGBP) are still puzzling. To elucidate the role of the gut, we compared -cell function assessed during an oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) and an isoglycemic intravenous glucose clamp (iso-IVGC) in: 1) 16 severely obese patients with type 2 diabetes, up to 3 years post-RYGBP; 2) 11 severely obese normal glucose-tolerant control subjects; and 3) 7 lean control subjects. Diabetes remission was observed after RYGBP. -Cell function during the OGTT, significantly blunted prior to RYGBP, normalized to levels of both control groups after RYGBP. In contrast, during the iso-IVGC, -cell function improved minimally and remained significantly impaired compared with lean control subjects up to 3 years post-RYGBP. Presurgery, -cell function, weight loss, and glucagon-like peptide 1 response were all predictors of postsurgery -cell function, although weight loss appeared to be the strongest predictor. These data show that -cell dysfunction persists after RYGBP, even in patients in clinical diabetes remission. This impairment can be rescued by oral glucose stimulation, suggesting that RYGBP leads to an important gastrointestinal effect, critical for improved -cell function after surgery.

UI  - 24295397
TI  - A cluster-randomized controlled trial to study the effectiveness of a protocol-based lifestyle program to prevent type 2 diabetes in people with impaired fasting glucose.
AB  - ISRCTN41209683. Ethical approval number: NL31342.075.10.

UI  - 24291272
TI  - Transcatheter versus surgical aortic valve replacement in patients with diabetes and severe aortic stenosis at high risk for surgery: an analysis of the PARTNER Trial (Placement of Aortic Transcatheter Valve).
AB  - Among patients with diabetes and severe symptomatic AS at high risk for surgery, this post-hoc stratified analysis of the PARTNER trial suggests there is a survival benefit, no increase in stroke, and less renal failure from treatment with transcatheter AVR compared with surgical AVR. (The PARTNER Trial: Placement of AoRTic TraNscathetER Valve Trial; NCT00530894).

UI  - 24290656
TI  - Autologous bone marrow mononuclear cell infusion and hyperbaric oxygen therapy in type 2 diabetes mellitus: an open-label, randomized controlled clinical trial.
AB  - BM-MNC infusion for type 2 diabetes mellitus improves islet function and metabolic control, with mild adverse effects. HOT does not synergize with BM-MNC infusion.

UI  - 24290082
TI  - Pregnancy complications, mental health-related problems and type 2 diabetes mellitus in Malaysian women.
AB  - In this study, T2DM is not a significant risk factor for depression and anxiety; similarly, neither are depression and anxiety significant risk factors for T2DM. Although prevalence of depression and anxiety is not alarming, the findings reported here should alert clinicians to screen and treat anxiety and depression in people with diabetes and also note the importance of monitoring women with complications in pregnancy for risk of later T2DM.

UI  - 24285763
TI  - Pharmacist-physician collaboration for diabetes care: cardiovascular outcomes.
AB  - The results of our study indicate that collaborative management has a positive impact on decreasing cardiovascular risk and assists patients in attaining national goals for blood pressure and cholesterol.

UI  - 24285582
TI  - Effect of niacin on high-density lipoprotein apolipoprotein A-I kinetics in statin-treated patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - ER niacin increases HDL apoA-I concentration in statin-treated subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus by lowering apoA-I fractional catabolic rate. The effect on HDL metabolism was independent of the reduction in plasma triglyceride with ER niacin treatment. Whether this finding applies to other dyslipidemic populations remains to be investigated.

UI  - 24284841
TI  - Effects of two different doses of epidural steroid on blood glucose levels and pain control in patients with diabetes mellitus.
AB  - Epidural steroid injections were associated with statistically significant elevations in PBG in patients with diabetes for up to 4 days after the procedure. The higher dose of triamcinolone increased FBG and PBG greater than a lower dose did without affecting pain control, employment status, or clinical outcome. Thus, with respect to glucose and pain control, 20 mg of triamcinolone appears to be recommended rather than 40 mg in patients with diabetes. Clinical Trials registration : NCT01435707.

UI  - 24281606
TI  - Local use of insulin in wounds of diabetic patients: higher temperature, fibrosis, and angiogenesis.
AB  - Therapeutic, II.

UI  - 24280743
TI  - Metformin for the treatment of hyperandrogenism in adolescents with type 1 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - Treating hyperandrogenic T1D adolescents with metformin significantly decreased the serum androgens compared to the placebo, but metformin therapy did not significantly affect clinical parameters, such as hirsutism, ovulation and metabolic control.

UI  - 24280463
TI  - Effect of community-based yoga intervention on oxidative stress and glycemic parameters in prediabetes: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Yoga intervention may be helpful in control of oxidative stress in prediabetes subjects. Yoga can also be beneficial in reduction in BMI, waist circumference, systolic blood pressure and fasting glucose. Effect of yoga on antioxidant parameters was not evident in this study. The findings of this study need to be confirmed in larger trials involving active control groups.

UI  - 24279801
TI  - Efficacy and safety of vildagliptin in new-onset diabetes after kidney transplantation--a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - New-onset diabetes after transplantation (NODAT) is a serious complication after kidney transplantation, but therapeutic strategies remain underexplored. Dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors selectively foster insulin secretion without inducing hypoglycemia, which might be advantageous in kidney transplant recipients (KTRs) with NODAT. We conducted a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, phase II trial to assess safety and efficacy of the DPP-4 inhibitor vildagliptin. Intraindividual differences in oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT)-derived 2-h plasma glucose (2HPG) from baseline to 3 months after treatment served as primary endpoint. Among secondary outcomes, we evaluated HbA1c, metabolic and safety parameters, as well as OGTTs at 1 month after drug discontinuation. Of 509 stable KTRs who were screened in our outpatient clinic, 63 (12.4%) had 2HPG  200 mg/dL, 33 of them were randomized and 32 completed the study. In the vildagliptin group 2HPG and HbA1c were profoundly reduced in comparison to placebo (vildagliptin: 2HPG = 182.7 mg/dL, HbA1c = 6.1%; placebo: 2HPG = 231.2 mg/dL, HbA1c = 6.5%; both p  0.05), and statistical significance was achieved for the primary endpoint (vildagliptin: 2HPG-difference -73.7  51.3 mg/dL; placebo: -5.7  41.4 mg/dL; p < 0.01). Adverse events were generally mild and occurred at similar rates in both groups. In conclusion, DPP-4 inhibition in KTRs with overt NODAT was safe and efficient, providing a novel treatment alternative for this specific form of diabetes.

UI  - 24277485
TI  - High frequency of non-nocturnal hypoglycemia was associated with poor sleep quality measure by Pittsburg Sleep Quality Index in patients with diabetes receiving insulin therapy: Diabetes Distress and Care Registry at Tenri (DDCRT 4).
AB  - To investigate the temporal association between frequency of non-nocturnal hypoglycemia and sleep quality among patients with diabetes receiving insulin therapy.We used data from 1513 patients with diabetes receiving insulin therapy. We estimated the relative risks (RR) of the frequency of non-nocturnal hypoglycemia for poor sleep quality measured by the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index.The average age and HbA1c value of the patients were 63.7 years and 7.8%, respectively. Compared with poor sleep quality in patients without any type of non-nocturnal disabling hypoglycemia (NNDH), the multivariable-adjusted RR values for poor sleep quality were 1.30 (95% confidence interval [CI], 1.06-1.61) and 1.37 (95% CI, 0.96-1.95) in patients who experienced 1-4 and 5 episodes of NNDH, respectively (p=0.004). Experiencing non-nocturnal severe hypoglycemia (NNSH) once in the past 90 days significantly increased the risk of poor sleep quality by 1.54 episodes (95% CI, 1.16-2.05; p=0.003). By adding the presence of depression as a variable to the multivariable-adjusted model, these associations were attenuated because we did not observe any significant association between NNDH and poor sleep quality (p=0.178). However, a significant association between NNSH and poor sleep quality was observed (RR=1.43; 95% CI, 1.09-1.90; p=0.011).A high frequency of non-nocturnal hypoglycemia was associated with poor sleep quality in patients with diabetes receiving insulin therapy. Our data also suggested that the association of NNDH, and not NNSH, was mediated by comorbid depression.

UI  - 24276839
TI  - Community household income and resource utilization for common inpatient pediatric conditions.
AB  - Lower community-level HHI is associated with higher inpatient costs of care for 4 of 5 common pediatric conditions. These findings highlight the need to consider socioeconomic status in health care system design, delivery, and reimbursement calculations.

UI  - 24276185
TI  - [Vision-threatening retinopathy in diabetics not referred to an ophthalmologist].
AB  - Detection and referral of diabetic patients with risk of visual loss must be made easier, regardless of their visual symptoms, in order to achieve treatment efficacy by timely care.

UI  - 24273930
TI  - Improved glycemic control in patients with advanced type 2 diabetes mellitus taking Urtica dioica leaf extract: a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled clinical trial.
AB  - Nettle may safely improve glycemic control in type 2 diabetic patients needing insulin therapy.

UI  - 24269517
TI  - Metformin is associated with improved survival in endometrial cancer.
AB  - Metformin use was associated with improved RFS and OS but not TTR, most likely due to improving all-cause mortality. Its role in modifying cancer recurrence remains unclear. Prospective studies that capture metformin exposure prior to, during and post endometrial cancer treatment may help define the role of metformin upon cancer specific and overall health outcomes.

UI  - 24269377
TI  - The combined effects of diet quality and physical activity on maintenance of muscle strength among diabetic older adults from the NuAge cohort.
AB  - Diabetic older adults are at a higher risk of muscle strength (MS) decline than their non-diabetic counterparts. Adequate protein and energy intakes and physical activity (PA) may preserve MS during aging. However, the role of diet quality (DQ) in MS maintenance is still unknown. This study aimed to determine the association between DQ - alone or combined with PA - and changes in MS over 3 years in diabetic participants aged 67 to 84 years at recruitment in a secondary analysis of the longitudinal observational NuAge study. Changes in handgrip, knee extensor and elbow flexor strengths were calculated as the difference between recruitment (T1) and after 3 years (T4) in 156 diabetic older adults. Baseline DQ was calculated from 3 non-consecutive 24-hour dietary recalls collected at T1 using the validated Canadian Healthy Eating Index (C-HEI). Change in PA was calculated from Physical Activity Scale for the Elderly (PASE) as PASE T4-PASE T1. Four combinations of variables were created: C-HEI<70 with PASE change either < or > median and C-HEI  70 with PASE change either < or > median. The association between these four categories and MS maintenance was evaluated using General Linear Modeling (GLM). Analyses were stratified by sex and controlled for covariates. Baseline DQ alone was not associated with MS maintenance. Baseline DQ combined with PASE change showed associations with crude and baseline adjusted handgrip strength (p=0.031, p=0.018) and crude and baseline adjusted elbow flexor change (p=0.028, p=0.017) in males only; no significant results were found for knee extensor strength in either males or females. While findings for females were inconclusive, results demonstrate that better adherence to dietary guidelines combined with a more active lifestyle may prevent MS decline among diabetic older males. Additional research is needed on a larger sample since generalization of these results is limited by the small sample size.

UI  - 24268212
TI  - Rationale, design, and organization of a randomized, controlled Trial Evaluating Cardiovascular Outcomes with Sitagliptin (TECOS) in patients with type 2 diabetes and established cardiovascular disease.
AB  - Sitagliptin, an oral dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitor, lowers blood glucose when administered as monotherapy or in combination with other antihyperglycemic agents. TECOS will evaluate the effects of adding sitagliptin to usual diabetes care on cardiovascular outcomes and clinical safety. TECOS is a pragmatic, academically run, multinational, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, event-driven trial recruiting approximately 14,000 patients in 38 countries who have type 2 diabetes (T2DM), are at least 50 years old, have cardiovascular disease, and have an hemoglobin A1c value between 6.5% and 8.0%. Eligible participants will be receiving stable mono- or dual therapy with metformin, sulfonylurea, or pioglitazone, or insulin alone or in combination with metformin. Randomization is 1:1 to double-blind sitagliptin or matching placebo, in addition to existing therapy in a usual care setting. Follow-up occurs at 4-month intervals in year 1 and then twice yearly until 1300 confirmed primary end points have occurred. Glycemic equipoise between randomized groups is a desired aim. The primary composite cardiovascular endpoint is time to the first occurrence of cardiovascular death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, nonfatal stroke, or hospitalization for unstable angina, with cardiovascular events adjudicated by an independent committee blinded to study therapy. TECOS is a pragmatic-design cardiovascular outcome trial assessing the cardiovascular effects of sitagliptin when added to usual T2DM management.

UI  - 24268118
TI  - Relation of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease to the metabolic syndrome: the Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis.
AB  - Components of MetS are associated with increased odds for presence and severity of NAFLD and increased risk with increasing number of MetS components in a multi-ethnic population of middle-to-old age persons.

UI  - 24267731
TI  - Metformin decreases circulating androgen and estrogen levels in nondiabetic women with breast cancer.
AB  - Metformin does not interfere with the production of dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate. Besides, it decreases estradiol levels, basically through the reduction of testosterone. These hormonal changes might have clinical relevance.

UI  - 24267441
TI  - Progress in national and regional guidelines development and deployment for the clinical prevention and control of CVD and diabetes in Africa.
AB  - Successful efforts to reduce cardiovascular disease in many countries have come as a result of both population based interventions and individually guided interventions. Guidelines serve two purposes directed at the promotion of the individually guided interventions. First, they serve as a method to summarize approved and successful life-style and medical interventions to reduce the burden of cardiovascular disease. Second, they guide health providers on how to identify those at high risk for cardiovascular disease and who might benefit from the available interventions. However, guidelines have been increasingly complex and at times contradictory from one body to another or they may not exist at all in certain countries. This paper will review the current status of guidelines for the region as well as for individual countries. Guidelines for the prevention of CVD as a whole will be evaluated as well as guidelines for individual risk factors such as hypertension, cholesterol, and diabetes. Finally, this paper will address the pitfalls of individual risk factor based guidelines as opposed to the absolute risk approach integrating multiple risk factors into one comprehensive set of guidelines.

UI  - 24264395
TI  - Diabetes control and complications trial/epidemiology of diabetes interventions and complications study at 30 years: advances and contributions.
AB  - 

UI  - 24263388
TI  - Randomized clinical trial to compare negative-pressure wound therapy approaches with low and high pressure, silicone-coated dressing, and polyurethane foam dressing.
AB  - Therapeutic, II.

UI  - 24261232
TI  - [Endothelial dysfunction is a target for combination antihypertensive therapy in hypertensive patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus].
AB  - Twelve-week treatment with the combined antihypertensive medication ekvator is highly effective and safe for recovering endothelial function and improving the state of target organs in hypertensive patients with T2DM.

UI  - 24260402
TI  - Diabetic patients could do as well as non-diabetic patients without inflammation on peritoneal dialysis.
AB  - Diabetic patients could do as well as non-diabetic patients without inflammation on peritoneal dialysis. Active strategies should be implemented to improve inflammation status in diabetic patients on PD.

UI  - 24260170
TI  - Associations of green tea and rock tea consumption with risk of impaired fasting glucose and impaired glucose tolerance in Chinese men and women.
AB  - Consumption of green or rock tea may protect against the development of type 2 diabetes mellitus in Chinese men and women, particularly in those who drink 16-30 cups per week.

UI  - 24260140
TI  - Prevalence of comorbidities and baseline characteristics of LAP-BAND AP subjects in the Helping Evaluate Reduction in Obesity (HERO) study.
AB  - The HERO study is the first large, multinational and long-term registry with the LBAP. This study will provide real-world outcomes data on LAGB that will help inform patient choice, clinician treatment strategies, and payer reimbursement decisions.

UI  - 24259985
TI  - Efficacy and safety of insulin glargine added to a fixed-dose combination of metformin and a dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitor: results of the GOLD observational study.
AB  - The results of this observational study show that insulin glargine, when added to a fixed-dose combination of metformin and a DPP-4 inhibitor, resulted in a significant and clinically relevant improvement of glycemic control. Importantly, this intervention did not interfere with the action of the DPP-4 inhibitors, resulting in neutral effects on weight and low rates of hypoglycemia. We conclude that this treatment intensification approach may be useful, efficient, and safe in daily clinical practice for patients with type 2 diabetes.

UI  - 24259948
TI  - TNF-alpha levels in tears: a novel biomarker to assess the degree of diabetic retinopathy.
AB  - We assess the level of tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) in tear fluids and other serum parameters associated with diabetes in different degrees of diabetic retinopathy. We have performed a prospective, nonrandomized, observational study. Study population consisted of 16 healthy subjects (controls) and 32 type 2 diabetic patients: 16 affected by proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR) and 16 with nonproliferative retinopathy (NDPR, background/preproliferative). Body mass index, urinary albumin, blood glucose, HbA1c, and tear levels of TNF-alpha were measured in all subjects. The value of glycaemia, microalbuminurea, and Body mass index in diabetic retinopathy groups were higher than those in control group (P < 0.05). Glycemia in NPDR: 6.6mmol/L (range: 5.8-6.3); in PDR: 6.7mmol/L (range: 6.1-7.2); in control: 5.7mmol/L (range: 4.9-6.1); microalbuminurea in NPDR: 10.6mg/L (range: 5.6-20); in PDR: 25.2mg/L (range: 17-40); in control: 5.3mg/L (range: 2.6-10); Body mass index in NPDR: 26Kg/m(2) (range: 20.3-40); in PDR: 28Kg/m(2) (range 20.3-52); in control: 21Kg/m(2) (range 19-26). The TNF-alpha concentrations in tears increase with the severity of pathology and were lower in control group than in diabetic subjects. In the end, the level of TNF-alpha is highly correlated with severity of diabetic retinopathy and with nephropathy. Tear fluid collection may be a useful noninvasive method for the detection of proliferative diabetic retinopathy.

UI  - 24259042
TI  - Sex-specific acute heart failure phenotypes and outcomes from PROTECT.
AB  - Women with acute heart failure present with a clinical profile different from that of men, with more hypertension, diabetes, and depression, and a preserved LVEF. During hospitalization, they were less intensively diuresed. Nevertheless, risk-adjusted 180-day outcome was similar between sexes.

UI  - 24256611
TI  - Effect of atorvastatin on renal NO availability and tubular function in patients with stage II-III chronic kidney disease and type 2 diabetes.
AB  - During, atorvastatin and placebo treatment, inhibition of nitric oxide synthesis induced the same response in brachial and central blood pressure, GFR, renal tubular function and vasoactive hormones. Thus, atorvastatin did not change nitric oxide availability in type 2 diabetics with nephropathy.

UI  - 24255548
TI  - Impact of bariatric surgery on serum urate targets in people with morbid obesity and diabetes: a prospective longitudinal study.
AB  - Clinically relevant reductions in SU occur following bariatric surgery in people with diabetes and WHO class II or higher obesity.

UI  - 24252125
TI  - Improving chronic disease prevention and screening in primary care: results of the BETTER pragmatic cluster randomized controlled trial.
AB  - A Prevention Practitioner can improve the implementation of clinically important prevention and screening for chronic diseases in a cost-effective manner.

UI  - 24251677
TI  - Implementation of a diabetes prevention program in public housing communities.
AB  - Linking existing resources, such as a homecare agency with a public housing community, is one approach to disseminate diabetes prevention programs.

UI  - 24246541
TI  - Diabetic women are poor responders to exercise rehabilitation in the treatment of claudication.
AB  - Women with PAD and claudication, particularly those with diabetes, represent a vulnerable subgroup of patients who respond poorly to a program of exercise rehabilitation. Diabetic women with PAD and claudication may need a greater dose of exercise or another intervention separate from or in combination with exercise to elicit improvements in claudication measures that are similar to nondiabetic women and to diabetic and nondiabetic men.

UI  - 24244321
TI  - Distinct metabolic profile of primary focal segmental glomerulosclerosis revealed by NMR-based metabolomics.
AB  - NMR-based metabonomic approach is amenable for the noninvasive diagnosis and differential diagnosis of FSGS as well as other glomerulopathies, and it could indicate the possible mechanisms of primary FSGS.

UI  - 24243632
TI  - Effects of exercise intensity on postprandial improvement in glucose disposal and insulin sensitivity in prediabetic adults.
AB  - These results suggest that in prediabetic adults, acute exercise has an immediate and intensity-dependent effect on improving postprandial glycemia and insulin sensitivity.

UI  - 24241533
TI  - Early enhancements of hepatic and later of peripheral insulin sensitivity combined with increased postprandial insulin secretion contribute to improved glycemic control after Roux-en-Y gastric bypass.
AB  - Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGB) improves glycemic control within days after surgery, and changes in insulin sensitivity and -cell function are likely to be involved. We studied 10 obese patients with type 2 diabetes (T2D) and 10 obese glucose-tolerant subjects before and 1 week, 3 months, and 1 year after RYGB. Participants were included after a preoperative diet-induced total weight loss of -9.2  1.2%. Hepatic and peripheral insulin sensitivity were assessed using the hyperinsulinemic- euglycemic clamp combined with the glucose tracer technique, and -cell function was evaluated in response to an intravenous glucose-glucagon challenge as well as an oral glucose load. Within 1 week, RYGB reduced basal glucose production, improved basal hepatic insulin sensitivity, and increased insulin clearance, highlighting the liver as an important organ responsible for early effects on glucose metabolism after surgery. Insulin-mediated glucose disposal and suppression of fatty acids did not improve immediately after surgery but increased at 3 months and 1 year; this increase likely was related to the reduction in body weight. Insulin secretion increased after RYGB only in patients with T2D and only in response to oral glucose, underscoring the importance of the changed gut anatomy.

UI  - 24238537
TI  - Cilostazol reduces microalbuminuria in type 2 diabetic nephropathy.
AB  - 

UI  - 24237962
TI  - The effects of acute and chronic exercise on PGC-1, irisin and browning of subcutaneous adipose tissue in humans.
AB  - Irisin was first identified as a peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor  co-activator-1 (PGC-1) dependent myokine with the potential to induce murine brown-fat-like development of white adipose tissue. In humans, the regulatory effect of training on muscle FNDC5 mRNA expression and subsequently irisin levels in plasma is more controversial. We recruited 26 inactive men (13 normoglycaemic and normal weight, controls; and 13 slightly hyperglycaemic and overweight, pre-diabetes group) aged 40-65 years for a 12-week intervention of combined endurance and strength training with four sessions of training per week. Before and after the 12-week intervention period, participants were exposed to an acute endurance workload of 45 min at 70% of VO(2max), and muscle biopsies were taken prior to and after exercise. Skeletal muscle mRNA for PGC1A and FNDC5 correlated and both PGC1A and FNDC5 mRNA levels increased after 12 weeks of training in both control and pre-diabetes subjects. Circulating irisin was reduced in response to 12 weeks of training, and was increased acutely (~1.2-fold) just after acute exercise. Plasma concentration of irisin was higher in pre-diabetes subjects compared with controls. There was little effect of 12 weeks of training on selected browning genes in subcutaneous adipose tissue. UCP1 mRNA did not correlate with FNDC5 expression in subcutaneous adipose tissue or skeletal muscle or with irisin levels in plasma. We observed no enhancing effect of long-term training on circulating irisin levels, and little or no effect of training on browning of subcutaneous white adipose tissue in humans.

UI  - 24236622
TI  - Strategies for multivessel revascularization in patients with diabetes.
AB  - Evaluation of: Farkouh ME, Domanski M, Sleeper LA et al. Strategies for multivessel revascularization in patients with diabetes. N. Engl. J. Med. 367, 2375-2384 (2012). The FREEDOM trial enrolled 1900 patients with diabetes and multivessel coronary disease to percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) with drug-eluting stents or coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG). In the drug-eluting stents arm, 94% were treated with the first-generation drug-eluting stents. The median duration of follow-up among survivors was 3.8 years. The primary outcome, a composite of death from any cause, nonfatal myocardial infarction or nonfatal stroke, occurred more frequently in the PCI group, with 5-year rates of 26.6% in the PCI group and 18.7% in the CABG group, a statistically significant relative-risk reduction of 30%. Stroke rates were significantly higher in the CABG group, with 5-year rates of 2.4% in the PCI group and 5.2% in the CABG group.

UI  - 24233316
TI  - Sustained effect of spinal cord stimulation on pain and quality of life in painful diabetic peripheral neuropathy.
AB  - 

UI  - 24231020
TI  - Prevalence and determinants of hyperuricemia in type 2 diabetes mellitus patients with central obesity in Guangdong Province in China.
AB  - This study investigated the prevalence and determinants of hyperuricemia in Chinese type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) patients with central obesity. A multicentric hospital-based cross-sectional study was carried out in Guangdong Province between August 2011 and March 2012. At each hospital, Chinese T2DM patients with central obesity who were aged over 20 years, whose serum uric acid levels were measured, and who had lived in Guangdong Province for >=1 year, were recruited. Hyperuricemia was defined as serum uric acid >420 mol/L in men and >360 mol/L in women. Binary logistic regression was used to assess associated risk factors for hyperu-ricemia. A total of 2,917 T2DM patients with central obesity took part. The overall prevalence of hyperuricemia was 32.6% (36.1% for women, 28.4% for men). Binary logistic regression analyses demonstrated that women (OR: 1.576; 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.231, 2.018), high BMI (OR: 1.228; 95% CI: 1.094, 1.379), waist cir-cumference (OR: 1.135; 95% CI: 1.009, 1.276), hypertension (OR: 1.603; 95% CI: 1.263, 2.035), high total cho-lesterol (OR: 1.133; 95% CI: 1.002, 1.281), triglycerides (OR: 1.134; 95% CI: 1.069, 1.203), low HDL-cholesterol (OR: 0.820; 95% CI: 0.677, 0.995) and low estimated glomerular filtration rate (OR: 0.840; 95% CI: 0.815, 0.866) were risk factors associated with hyperuricemia. Hyperuricemia is prevalent in Chinese T2DM patients with central obesity and is significantly positively associated with women, cardiovascular risk factors such as obesity, hypertension and dyslipidemia, and low eGFR.

UI  - 24229770
TI  - Pioglitazone decreases coronary artery inflammation in impaired glucose tolerance and diabetes mellitus: evaluation by FDG-PET/CT imaging.
AB  - Our study indicated that pioglitazone attenuated left main trunk inflammation in patients with impaired glucose tolerance or DM in a glucose-lowering independent manner, suggesting that pioglitazone may protect against cardiac events in patients with impaired glucose tolerance or DM by suppressing coronary inflammation. (Anti-Inflammatory Effects of Pioglitazone; NCT00722631).

UI  - 24229669
TI  - Basal insulin therapy strategy is superior to premixed insulin therapy in the perioperative period blood glucose management.
AB  - Basal insulin therapy could be used in diabetic patients undergoing elective major and medium surgery during whole perioperative period. Basal insulin therapy strategy, including a single injection of basal insulin and basal insulin plus preprandial insulin injection subcutaneously, is superior to premixed insulin therapy in the perioperative blood glucose management, and it could be viewed as the best choice in glucose control during perioperative period.

UI  - 24229665
TI  - Change of glutamic acid decarboxylase antibody and protein tyrosine phosphatase antibody in Chinese patients with acute-onset type 1 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - Our data suggest that repeated detection of GADA and IA-2A are necessary for differential diagnosis of autoimmune diabetes and the indirect prediction of the  cell function in Chinese patients.

UI  - 24229349
TI  - Mediterranean dietary pattern and depression: the PREDIMED randomized trial.
AB  - This trial has been registered in the Current Controlled Trials with the number ISRCTN 35739639.

UI  - 24227804
TI  - Vascular endothelial growth factor suppression times in patients with diabetic macular oedema treated with ranibizumab.
AB  - Monthly ranibizumab injections lead to a complete VEGF suppression in patients with DME. The long-term stability and the range of suppression times among individuals suggest that some patients could benefit from individual injection intervals.

UI  - 24227800
TI  - Differences in the topographic profiles of retinal thickening in eyes with and without serous macular detachment associated with diabetic macular oedema.
AB  - There were distinct differences in topographical profiles of retinal thickening between eyes with SMD and eyes without SMD. These findings suggest a possible mechanical basis for the pathogenesis of SMD in DMO.

UI  - 24225338
TI  - Comparison of effects of -Glucosidase inhibitors and glinide drugs on endothelial dysfunction in diabetic patients with coronary artery disease.
AB  - The ameliorating effect of -GI on post-prandial hyperglycemia without stimulating insulin secretion may improve atherogenic dyslipidemia by reducing insulin resistance. These effects are associated with its beneficial impact on oxidative stress, consequently leading to an improvement in endothelial dysfunction.

UI  - 24225334
TI  - Improving the economic value of photographic screening for optical coherence tomography-detectable macular oedema: a prospective, multicentre, UK study.
AB  - This project was funded by the NIHR Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol. 17, No. 51. See the HTA programme website for further project information.

UI  - 24225332
TI  - Trial to examine text message-based mHealth in emergency department patients with diabetes (TExT-MED): a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - The TExT-MED program did not result in a statistically significant improvement in Hb A1C. However, trends toward improvement in the primary outcome of Hb A1C and other secondary outcomes, including quality of life, were observed, the most pronounced being improved medication adherence. TExT-MED also decreased ED utilization. These findings were magnified in the Spanish-speaking subgroup. Technologies such as TExT-MED represent highly scalable, low-cost, and widely accessible solutions for safety-net ED populations.

UI  - 24225149
TI  - Diabetes self-management smartphone application for adults with type 1 diabetes: randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry: ACTRN12612000132842; https://www.anzctr.org.au/Trial/Registration/TrialReview.aspx?ACTRN=12612000132842 (Archived by WebCite at http://www.webcitation.org/6Kl4jqn5u).

UI  - 24223499
TI  - Risk of coronary heart disease among HIV-infected patients: a multicenter study in Brazil.
AB  - Cardiovascular disease has emerged as a crescent problem among HIV-infected population. This study aimed to determine the 10-year risk of coronary heart disease using the Framingham risk score among HIV-infected patients from three regions of Brazil. This is a pooled analysis of three cohort studies, which enrolled 3,829 individuals, 59% were men, 66% had white skin color, and mean age 39.0  9.9 years. Comparisons among regions showed that there were marked differences in demographic, socioeconomic, clinical, and HIV-related characteristics. Prevalence of Framingham score 10 was 4.5% in the Southern, 4.2% in the Midwest, and 3.9% in the Northeast of Brazil. The Framingham score 10 was similar between regions for males, patients aged 60 years, with obesity, central obesity, hypertension, and diabetes mellitus. Women were three times more likely to have coronary heart disease in 10 years than men. Hypertension and diabetes increased more than four times the risk of coronary heart disease, followed by central obesity, obesity, and prehypertension. The use of antiretroviral agents and time since HIV diagnosis were not risk factors for coronary artery disease in 10 years. In conclusion, hypertension and diabetes are the strongest independent predictors of 10-year risk of coronary heart disease among HIV-infected population.

UI  - 24222606
TI  - Blood metals concentration in type 1 and type 2 diabetics.
AB  - Mechanisms for the onset of diabetes and the development of diabetic complications remain under extensive investigations. One of these mechanisms is abnormal homeostasis of metals, as either deficiency or excess of metals, can contribute to certain diabetic outcomes. Therefore, this paper will report the blood levels of chromium (Cr), copper (Cu), iron (Fe), manganese (Mn), mercury (Hg), nickel (Ni), lead (Pb), selenium (Se), and zinc (Zn) in subjects with type 1 diabetes (n = 192, mean age 48.8 years, mean disease duration 20.6 years), type 2 diabetes (n = 68, mean age 68.4 years, mean disease duration 10.2 years), and in control subjects (n = 59, mean age 57.2 years), and discuss the results indicating their possible role in diabetes. The metal concentrations were measured by sector field inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry after microwave-induced acid digestion of blood samples. The accuracy was checked using a blood-based certified reference material, and recoveries of all elements were in the range of 92-101 % of certified values. Type 1 diabetes was found to be associated with Cr (p = 0.02), Mn (p < 0.001), Ni (p < 0.001), Pb (p = 0.02), and Zn (p < 0.001) deficiency, and type 2 diabetes with Cr (p = 0.014), Mn (p < 0.001), and Ni (p < 0.001) deficiency. These deficiencies were appreciated also subdividing the understudied patients for gender and age groups. Furthermore, in type 1 diabetes, there was a positive correlation between Pb and age (p < 0.001,  = 0.400) and Pb and BMI (p < 0.001,  = 0.309), while a negative correlation between Fe and age (p = 0.002,  = -0.218). In type 2 diabetes, there was a negative correlation between Fe and age (p = 0.017,  = -0.294) and Fe and BMI (p = 0.026,  = -0.301). Thus, these elements may play a role in both forms of diabetes and combined mineral supplementations could have beneficial effects.

UI  - 24219891
TI  - Plasminogen activator inhibitor-1, monocyte chemoattractant protein-1, e-selectin and C-reactive protein levels in response to 4-week very-high-fructose or -glucose diets.
AB  - Temporary high-fructose intake does not seem to cause inflammation in apparently healthy people in this secondary analysis of a small feeding trial.

UI  - 24218347
TI  - A qualitative case study of telehealth for in-home monitoring to support the management of type 2 diabetes.
AB  - The present study formed part of a randomised controlled trial of telehealth for in-home monitoring to support people with poorly controlled type 2 diabetes. We explored the experiences of patients and healthcare practitioners, and their perceptions of the telehealth model of care used in the trial. In addition to their usual diabetes care, participants receive diabetes care from a diabetes educator nurse via an in-home broadband communication device. On average, each patient participated in 14 videoconferences with a diabetes care coordinator during the 12-month trial period. Qualitative data was collected from two general practices and included semi-structured interviews and document review of patient clinical notes. A total of 12 people were interviewed: 8 health practitioners and 4 patients. Patients and health practitioners expressed a high level of satisfaction with the model of care provided. Patients also reported positive health and social outcomes as a result of being involved in the trial and indicated that in the main they had achieved their goals and were happy with their progress over the 12-month period. Analysis of interviews revealed three broad elements associated with the implementation of telehealth: interpersonal factors, operational problems and the wider health system context within which the general practices and trial team were operating. The findings suggest that adopting telehealth in the management of type 2 diabetes can lead to improved diabetes control, but more support is required to ensure sustainability and widespread implementation.

UI  - 24218170
TI  - Bone marrow microvascular and neuropathic alterations in patients with critical limb ischemia.
AB  - CLI is associated with BM microvascular and neuropathic changes, both in patients with and without diabetes mellitus.

UI  - 24217934
TI  - The skeletal effects of pioglitazone in type 2 diabetes or impaired glucose tolerance: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Over 1 year, treatment with pioglitazone 30mg/day did not produce consistent effects on either BMD or bone turnover in people with T2DM or IGT. The mechanism(s) by which pioglitazone increases fracture risk in T2DM is unclear.

UI  - 24212264
TI  - Newly diagnosed and previously known diabetes mellitus and short-term outcomes in patients with acute myocardial infarction.
AB  - Previously known DM, but not newly diagnosed DM, was an independent predictor for short-term MACE in patients with STEMI. To reduce the incidence of short-term MACE and the detrimental effects of stress hyperglycemia after STEMI, intensive insulin therapy should be provided to diabetic patients with STEMI.

UI  - 24211753
TI  - Longitudinal analysis of participants in the KEEP Mexico's chronic kidney disease screening program.
AB  - Screening for CKD among high-risk individuals is uncommon. KEEP is an effective program for detecting CKD.

UI  - 24210987
TI  - Prevalence, predictors and evolution of echocardiographically defined cardiac abnormalities in adults with type 1 diabetes: an observational cohort study.
AB  - Subclinical echocardiographic abnormalities are common in asymptomatic type 1 diabetes adults, and changes are progressive. The addition of an echocardiogram to complication surveillance programs in those with type 1 diabetes aged 40 years may represent a cost-effective way to screen for, and aggressively treat, occult cardiac disease.

UI  - 24210779
TI  - Percutaneous renal denervation in patients with treatment-resistant hypertension: final 3-year report of the Symplicity HTN-1 study.
AB  - Ardian LLC/Medtronic Inc.

UI  - 24210590
TI  - Estimated GFR decline as a surrogate end point for kidney failure: a post hoc analysis from the Reduction of End Points in Non-Insulin-Dependent Diabetes With the Angiotensin II Antagonist Losartan (RENAAL) study and Irbesartan Diabetic Nephropathy Trial (IDNT).
AB  - Despite increases in precision of the treatment effect, eGFR declines less than a doubling of serum creatinine value did not consistently improve statistical power of the clinical trials due to attenuation of the treatment effect. Attenuation of the treatment effect appears to be due in part to acute effects of ARBs on eGFR. These findings should be taken into account when using lesser eGFR declines as alternative end points for clinical trials.

UI  - 24206580
TI  - Treatment patterns and characteristics of European patients with castration-resistant prostate cancer.
AB  - Results from this analysis highlight inconsistencies in common hormonal therapy treatment patterns for CRPC and hormonal therapy across the EU.

UI  - 24206459
TI  - Bardoxolone methyl in type 2 diabetes and stage 4 chronic kidney disease.
AB  - Among patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and stage 4 chronic kidney disease, bardoxolone methyl did not reduce the risk of ESRD or death from cardiovascular causes. A higher rate of cardiovascular events with bardoxolone methyl than with placebo prompted termination of the trial. (Funded by Reata Pharmaceuticals; BEACON ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT01351675.).

UI  - 24206457
TI  - Combined angiotensin inhibition for the treatment of diabetic nephropathy.
AB  - Combination therapy with angiotensin-converting-enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin-receptor blockers (ARBs) decreases proteinuria; however, its safety and effect on the progression of kidney disease are uncertain. Methods We provided losartan (at a dose of 100 mg per day) to patients with type 2 diabetes, a urinary albumin-to-creatinine ratio (with albumin measured in milligrams and creatinine measured in grams) of at least 300, and an estimated glomerular filtration rate (GFR) of 30.0 to 89.9 ml per minute per 1.73 m(2) of body-surface area and then randomly assigned them to receive lisinopril (at a dose of 10 to 40 mg per day) or placebo. The primary end point was the first occurrence of a change in the estimated GFR (a decline of  30 ml per minute per 1.73 m(2) if the initial estimated GFR was  60 ml per minute per 1.73 m(2) or a decline of  50% if the initial estimated GFR was <60 ml per minute per 1.73 m(2)), end-stage renal disease (ESRD), or death. The secondary renal end point was the first occurrence of a decline in the estimated GFR or ESRD. Safety outcomes included mortality, hyperkalemia, and acute kidney injury. Results The study was stopped early owing to safety concerns. Among 1448 randomly assigned patients with a median follow-up of 2.2 years, there were 152 primary end-point events in the monotherapy group and 132 in the combination-therapy group (hazard ratio with combination therapy, 0.88; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.70 to 1.12; P=0.30). A trend toward a benefit from combination therapy with respect to the secondary end point (hazard ratio, 0.78; 95% CI, 0.58 to 1.05; P=0.10) decreased with time (P=0.02 for nonproportionality). There was no benefit with respect to mortality (hazard ratio for death, 1.04; 95% CI, 0.73 to 1.49; P=0.75) or cardiovascular events. Combination therapy increased the risk of hyperkalemia (6.3 events per 100 person-years, vs. 2.6 events per 100 person-years with monotherapy; P<0.001) and acute kidney injury (12.2 vs. 6.7 events per 100 person-years, P<0.001). Conclusions Combination therapy with an ACE inhibitor and an ARB was associated with an increased risk of adverse events among patients with diabetic nephropathy. (Funded by the Cooperative Studies Program of the Department of Veterans Affairs Office of Research and Development; VA NEPHRON-D ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00555217.).

UI  - 24206418
TI  - Autoimmune disorders and quadrivalent human papillomavirus vaccination of young female subjects.
AB  - No evidence of an increase in the risk of the studied ADs was observable following vaccination with Gardasil within the time periods studied. There was insufficient statistical power to allow conclusions to be drawn regarding individual ADs.

UI  - 24204067
TI  - Results of a mixed-methods evaluation of partnerships for health: a quality improvement initiative for diabetes care.
AB  - QI initiatives like Partnerships for Health can result in improved diabetes clinical process and outcome measures in primary health care.

UI  - 24204063
TI  - Diabetes care quality is highly correlated with patient panel characteristics.
AB  - Clinic variability in delivery rates of preventive services correlates with differences in clinics' patient panel characteristics, particularly the percentage of patients with continuous insurance coverage. Quality scores that do not account for these differences could create disincentives to clinics providing diabetes care for vulnerable patients.

UI  - 24201395
TI  - Incisional negative pressure wound therapy significantly reduces surgical site infection in open colorectal surgery.
AB  - Incisional negative pressure wound therapy appears to reduce surgical site infection in open colorectal surgery. Further study may be helpful to identify patient populations who would have the greatest benefit from this technique(see Video, Supplemental Digital Content 1, http://links.lww.com/DCR/A115).

UI  - 24201169
TI  - A prospective, randomized clinical study evaluating the effect of transdermal continuous oxygen therapy on biological processes and foot ulcer healing in persons with diabetes mellitus.
AB  - Hypoxia is a major factor in delayed wound healing. The aim of this prospective, randomized, clinical trial was to compare outcomes of treatment in persons with chronic diabetic foot ulcers (DFUs) randomly assigned to transdermal continuous oxygen therapy (TCOT) for 4 weeks as an adjunct to standard care (debridement, offloading, and moisture). Nine patients (age 58.67.1, range 38-73 years) received TCOT (treatment group) and eight patients (age 59.912.6, range 35-76 years) received standard care alone (control group). Most patients (12) were male, and all had a Wagner I or II foot ulcer for an average of 14 (control group) or 20 months (treatment group). Weekly wound measurements and wound tissue biopsies were obtained and wound fluid collected. Levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines and proteases in wound fluid samples were analyzed using Luminex-based multiplex assays. Tissue-resident macrophages were quantified by immunohistochemistry. At week 4, average wound size reduction was 87% (range 55.7% to 100%) in the treatment group compared to 46% (15% to 99%) in the control group (P <0.05). Changes in cytokine levels (IL-6, IL-8) and proteinases (MMP-1,-2,-9, TIMP-1) at weeks 2 to 4 in wound fluid correlated with clinical findings. CD68+ macrophage counts showed statistically significant reduction in response to TCOT compared to the control group (P <0.01). The results of this study show that TCOT may facilitate healing of DFUs by reversing the inflammatory process through reduction in pro-inflammatory cytokines and tissue-degrading proteases. Additional research to elucidate the effects of this treatment on complete healing and increase understanding about the role of wound fluid analysis is needed.

UI  - 24200872
TI  - Quantification of endothelial microparticles on modified cytometric bead assay and prognosis in chest pain patients.
AB  - A novel EMP quantification assay has been successfully established. The EMPs in vitro and in patients were significantly correlated with ET-1 and ICAM-1 level. The patients with a higher EMP level had a higher risk of MACE. EMP level is a predictor for MACE in ACS patients.

UI  - 24199747
TI  - A lifestyle intervention supported by mobile health technologies to improve the cardiometabolic risk profile of individuals at risk for cardiovascular disease and type 2 diabetes: study rationale and protocol.
AB  - NCT01944124.

UI  - 24197399
TI  - Pilot study of a web-based intervention for adolescents with type 1 diabetes.
AB  - We evaluated the feasibility and effectiveness of a website designed to improve compliance to treatment protocols in adolescents with type-1 diabetes. Fifty-nine adolescents, 13-18 years of age, were randomly assigned to a control or experimental group. The control group received standard medical care as usual. The experimental group participated in an interactive, 7-week web-based intervention, taking part in problem-solving through discussion forums, chat rooms and blogs. Fifty of the 59 participants (85%) completed measures assessing diabetes-related quality of life, self-efficacy and outcome expectations. These variables were expected to be interrelated and their combined effects were considered as mediators of compliance. There was a marginally significant difference between the two groups on these combined measures (P=0.052), with the control group scoring significantly higher on Positive Outcome Expectations (P=0.03) both pre- and post-treatment. Attrition in the period between recruitment and the beginning of the intervention reduced power. Self-Efficacy was significantly correlated with Positive Outcome Expectations (r=0.30, P=0.037) and Diabetes Self-Management and Diabetes Quality of Life for Youths (r=0.43, P=0.002). In an exit survey, 90% of participants indicated that they were more willing to comply with their treatment protocol after participating in the intervention. An online website is a promising tool to bring adolescents with a chronic disease together, providing problem solving activities and social support.

UI  - 24196401
TI  - Maternal prepregnancy obesity and insulin treatment during pregnancy are independently associated with delayed lactogenesis in women with recent gestational diabetes mellitus.
AB  - One-third of women with recent GDM experienced delayed OL. Maternal obesity, insulin treatment, and suboptimal in-hospital breastfeeding were key risk factors for delayed OL. Early breastfeeding support for GDM women with these risk factors may be needed to ensure successful lactation. This trial was registered at clinicaltrials.gov as NCT01967030.

UI  - 24196314
TI  - Long-term outcome of the unrestricted use of everolimus-eluting stents compared to sirolimus-eluting stents and paclitaxel-eluting stents in diabetic patients: the Bern-Rotterdam diabetes cohort study.
AB  - In diabetic patients, the unrestricted use of EES appears to be associated with improved outcomes, specifically a significant decrease in the need for TLR and ST compared to early generation SES and PES throughout 3-year follow-up.

UI  - 24195786
TI  - Effect of imidapril versus ramipril on urinary albumin excretion in hypertensive patients with type 2 diabetes and microalbuminuria.
AB  - These findings showed that in diabetic hypertensive patients with microalbuminuria, despite equivalent BP-lowering effect, I produced a greater antiproteinuric effect than R, which might be due to different intrinsic molecular properties of the two drugs.

UI  - 24194532
TI  - Intensive insulin therapy increases sex hormone-binding globulin in newly diagnosed type 2 diabetic patients.
AB  - IT increases serum SHBG likely through improving insulin resistance and liver function.

UI  - 24191395
TI  - Timing of invasive strategy in diabetic and non-diabetic patients with non-ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndrome.
AB  - Early invasive strategy in diabetic patients with non-ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndrome is associated with a reduced MACE rate compared with the selective invasive strategy used in these patients. Early invasive strategy applied in diabetic patients is also associated with a significantly longer time to MACE. In non-diabetics the advantages of early over selective invasive strategy are not so clearly differentiated.

UI  - 24190147
TI  - Association of hyperglycemia on admission and during hospitalization with mortality in diabetic patients admitted for pneumonia.
AB  - Hyperglycemia determined according to the mean plasma glucose level during hospitalization is independently associated with 30-day all-cause hospital mortality in diabetic patients admitted for pneumonia.

UI  - 24189773
TI  - Weight change and health outcomes at 3 years after bariatric surgery among individuals with severe obesity.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00465829.

UI  - 24188615
TI  - Heme iron intake and risk of new-onset diabetes in a Mediterranean population at high risk of cardiovascular disease: an observational cohort analysis.
AB  - Identifier: ISRCTN35739639.

UI  - 24187868
TI  - Analysis on traditional Chinese medicine syndrome elements and relevant factors for senile diabetes.
AB  - SD pathogenesis has a deficiency in origin and excess in superficiality. Deficiency syndrome mainly manifests as deficiency of both Qi and Yin, and concurrently in Yang deficiency. Excess syndrome is characterized by blood stasis and phlegm turbidity. SEs analysis provides a basis for the prevention and treatment of SD with TCM and lays the foundation for objectively evaluating multicentric clinical research for SD in TCM.

UI  - 24187402
TI  - ATLANTIC-DIP: excessive gestational weight gain and pregnancy outcomes in women with gestational or pregestational diabetes mellitus.
AB  - We show that in the already high-risk settings of both GDM and PGDM, excessive GWG confers an additive risk for LGA birth weight, macrosomia, and gestational hypertension.

UI  - 24186866
TI  - Effects of sitagliptin and metformin treatment on incretin hormone and insulin secretory responses to oral and "isoglycemic" intravenous glucose.
AB  - Dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors prevent degradation of incretin hormones (glucagon-like peptide 1 [GLP-1] and glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide [GIP]), whereas metformin may increase GLP-1 levels. We examined, in a four-period crossover trial, the influence of metformin (2,000 mg/day), sitagliptin (100 mg/day), or their combination, on GLP-1 responses and on the incretin effect in 20 patients with type 2 diabetes, comparing an oral glucose challenge (75 g, day 5) and an "isoglycemic" intravenous glucose infusion (day 6). Fasting total GLP-1 was significantly increased by metformin and not changed by sitagliptin. After oral glucose, metformin increased and sitagliptin significantly decreased (by 53%) total GLP-1. Fasting and postload intact GLP-1 increased with sitagliptin but not with metformin. After oral glucose, only sitagliptin, but not metformin, significantly augmented insulin secretion, in monotherapy and as an add-on to metformin. The incretin effect was not changed numerically with any of the treatments. In conclusion, sitagliptin increased intact GLP-1 and GIP through DPP-4 inhibition but reduced total GLP-1 and GIP (feedback inhibition) without affecting the numerical contribution of the incretin effect. Insulin secretion with sitagliptin treatment was similarly stimulated with oral and "isoglycemic" intravenous glucose. This points to an important contribution of small changes in incretin concentrations within the basal range or to additional insulinotropic agents besides GLP mediating the antidiabetic effects of DPP-4 inhibition.

UI  - 24186563
TI  - Validity of Charlson Comorbidity Index in patients hospitalised with acute coronary syndrome. Insights from the nationwide AMIS Plus registry 2002-2012.
AB  - Comorbidities greatly influenced clinical presentation, therapies received and the outcome of patients admitted with ACS. Heart failure, diabetes, renal disease or metastatic tumours had a major impact on mortality. CCI seems to be an appropriate prognostic indicator for in-hospital and 1-year outcomes in ACS patients. ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT01305785.

UI  - 24180316
TI  - Cluster randomised controlled trial of a peer-led lifestyle intervention program: study protocol for the Kerala diabetes prevention program.
AB  - Australia and New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry: ACTRN12611000262909.

UI  - 24178625
TI  - OSA and coronary plaque characteristics.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov; No.: NCT01306526; URL: www.clinicaltrials.gov.

UI  - 24176451
TI  - Incidence of atrial fibrillation in a population with impaired glucose tolerance: the contribution of glucose metabolism and other risk factors. A post hoc analysis of the Nateglinide and Valsartan in Impaired Glucose Tolerance Outcomes Research trial.
AB  - In a trial population with impaired glucose tolerance, fasting plasma glucose and well-known risk factors (age, hypertension, and elevated body weight), but not progression to diabetes, predict risk of AF.

UI  - 24176437
TI  - Design of the liraglutide effect and action in diabetes: evaluation of cardiovascular outcome results (LEADER) trial.
AB  - LEADER commenced in September 2010, and enrollment concluded in April 2012. There were 9,340 patients enrolled at 410 sites in 32 countries. The mean age of patients was 64.3  7.2 years, 64.3% were men, and mean body mass index was 32.5  6.3 kg/m2. There were 7,592 (81.3%) patients with prior CVD and 1,748 (18.7%) who were high risk but without prior CVD. It is expected that LEADER will provide conclusive data regarding the cardiovascular safety of liraglutide relative to the current standard of usual care for a global population of patients with T2DM.

UI  - 24176198
TI  - Intrinsic foot muscle deterioration is associated with metatarsophalangeal joint angle in people with diabetes and neuropathy.
AB  - Individuals with diabetic neuropathy had increased intrinsic foot muscle deterioration, which was associated with second metatarsophalangeal joint angle and history of ulceration. Additional research is required to understand how foot muscle deterioration interacts with other impairments leading to forefoot deformity and skin breakdown.

UI  - 24175012
TI  - Analysis of serum and urinal copper and zinc in Chinese northeast population with the prediabetes or diabetes with and without complications.
AB  - This study investigated the association of copper and zinc levels in the serum or urine of patients living in northeast China, with either prediabetes or diabetes. From January 2010 to October 2011, patients with type 1 diabetes (T1D, n = 25), type 2 diabetes (T2D, n = 137), impaired fasting glucose (IFG, n = 12) or impaired glucose tolerance (IGT, n = 15), and age/gender matched controls (n = 50) were enrolled. In the T2D group, there were 24 patients with nephropathy, 34 with retinopathy, and 50 with peripheral neuropathy. Serum copper levels were significantly higher in IFG, IGT, and T2D groups. Serum zinc level was dramatically lower, and urinary zinc level was significantly higher in both T1D and T2D subjects compared with controls. The serum zinc/copper ratio was significantly lower in all the patients with IFG, ITG, T1D, and T2D. The serum copper level was positively associated with HbA1c in T2D subjects. Simvastatin treatment in T2D patients had no significant effect on serum and urinary copper and zinc. These results suggest the need for further studies of the potential impact of the imbalanced serum copper and zinc levels on metabolic syndrome, diabetes, and diabetic complications.

UI  - 24174327
TI  - Unimolecular dual incretins maximize metabolic benefits in rodents, monkeys, and humans.
AB  - We report the discovery and translational therapeutic efficacy of a peptide with potent, balanced co-agonism at both of the receptors for the incretin hormones glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) and glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide (GIP). This unimolecular dual incretin is derived from an intermixed sequence of GLP-1 and GIP, and demonstrated enhanced antihyperglycemic and insulinotropic efficacy relative to selective GLP-1 agonists. Notably, this superior efficacy translated across rodent models of obesity and diabetes, including db/db mice and ZDF rats, to primates (cynomolgus monkeys and humans). Furthermore, this co-agonist exhibited synergism in reducing fat mass in obese rodents, whereas a selective GIP agonist demonstrated negligible weight-lowering efficacy. The unimolecular dual incretins corrected two causal mechanisms of diabesity, adiposity-induced insulin resistance and pancreatic insulin deficiency, more effectively than did selective mono-agonists. The duration of action of the unimolecular dual incretins was refined through site-specific lipidation or PEGylation to support less frequent administration. These peptides provide comparable pharmacology to the native peptides and enhanced efficacy relative to similarly modified selective GLP-1 agonists. The pharmacokinetic enhancement lessened peak drug exposure and, in combination with less dependence on GLP-1-mediated pharmacology, avoided the adverse gastrointestinal effects that typify selective GLP-1-based agonists. This discovery and validation of a balanced and high-potency dual incretin agonist enables a more physiological approach to management of diseases associated with impaired glucose tolerance.

UI  - 24174262
TI  - Direct medical cost and glycemic control in type 2 diabetic Saudi patients.
AB  - Collectively, the estimated direct annual medical cost of diabetes care in Saudi Arabia would be enormous. The current study offers more insight into the economic burden of diabetes on the country.

UI  - 24172699
TI  - Alpha-lipoic acid improves subclinical left ventricular dysfunction in asymptomatic patients with type 1 diabetes.
AB  - These findings suggest that alpha-lipoic acid may have a role in preventing the development of diabetic cardiomyopathy in type 1 diabetes.

UI  - 24170982
TI  - Psychopathology and continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion in type 1 diabetes.
AB  - Women with type 1 diabetes treated with CSII display higher levels of psychopathology than those on MDI. This is probably the consequence of the fact that patients selected for CSII are those failing to MDI. Higher levels of psychopathology could represent a limit for the attainment and maintenance of therapeutic goals with CSII.

UI  - 24169284
TI  - [Effects of allitridi capsules on endothelial function and clinical prognosis after percutaneous coronary intervention in coronary artery disease patients with diabetes mellitus].
AB  - Allitridi capsules significantly improve the clinical prognosis after PCI in CAD patients with DM. Its mechanism may lies in improved endothelial function and vascular inflammatory state.

UI  - 24168904
TI  - Associations between dairy protein intake and body weight and risk markers of diabetes and CVD during weight maintenance.
AB  - Dairy products have previously been reported to be associated with beneficial effects on body weight and metabolic risk markers. Moreover, primary data from the Diet, Obesity and Genes (DiOGenes) study indicate a weight-maintaining effect of a high-protein-low-glycaemic index diet. The objective of the present study was to examine putative associations between consumption of dairy proteins and changes in body weight and metabolic risk markers after weight loss in obese and overweight adults. Results were based on secondary analyses of data obtained from overweight and obese adults who completed the DiOGenes study. The study consisted of an 8-week weight-loss phase and a 6-month weight-maintenance (WM) phase, where the subjects were given five different diets varying in protein content and glycaemic index. In the present study, data obtained from all the subjects were pooled. Dairy protein intake was estimated from 3 d dietary records at two time points (week 4 and week 26) during the WM phase. Body weight and metabolic risk markers were determined at baseline (week -9 to -11) and before and at the end of the WM phase (week 0 and week 26). Overall, no significant associations were found between consumption of dairy proteins and changes in body weight and metabolic risk markers. However, dairy protein intake tended to be negatively associated with body weight gain (P=008; =-017), but this was not persistent when controlled for total protein intake, which indicates that dairy protein adds no additional effect to the effect of total protein. Therefore, the present study does not report that dairy proteins are more favourable than other proteins for body weight regulation.

UI  - 24167545
TI  - Association between serum ferritin and osteocalcin as a potential mechanism explaining the iron-induced insulin resistance.
AB  - Controlled-Trials.com ISRCTN35739639 <http://www.controlled-trials.com/ISRCTN35739639>.

UI  - 24165467
TI  - Glycemia (hemoglobin A1c) and incident venous thromboembolism in the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities cohort study.
AB  - Diabetes has been inconsistently associated with increased risk of venous thromboembolism (VTE) and there is little direct evidence on the associations of glycemia levels with VTE. We used data from the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities study to test the hypothesis that glycemia, as measured by hemoglobin A1c (A1c), is positively associated with VTE. Participants aged 45-64 years (n = 12,298) had A1c measured in 1990 and were followed for incident VTE (n = 345) through 2005. Because A1c is affected by diabetes treatment, analyses were stratified by history of diagnosed diabetes. Owing to evidence of non-linearity, we categorized A1c according to clinical cut-points: <5.7, 5.7-6.4, and  6.5% in those with no diagnosed diabetes; <7.0 and  7.0% in those with diagnosed diabetes. After adjustment for potential confounders, the hazard ratios (95% CIs) for VTE across increasing A1c categories were 1 (referent), 1.02 (0.77, 1.35) and 0.72 (0.41, 1.29) for those without diagnosed diabetes, and 1.30 (0.77, 2.17) and 1.41 (0.95, 2.09) for those with diagnosed diabetes. To explore the relation, we employed various models to adjust for potential confounding variables and modeled A1c as tertiles. We consistently found elevated hazard ratios in those with diagnosed diabetes, though the association was not statistically significant in every model. Hazard ratios in those without diagnosed diabetes were close to 1. In conclusion, our results are mildly suggestive that diagnosed diabetes and high levels of glucose, per se, may increase the risk of VTE. Elevated glucose was not related to VTE in those without diagnosed diabetes.

UI  - 24165427
TI  - Does concomitant diabetes affect treatment responses in overactive bladder patients?
AB  - We conclude that a muscarinic receptor antagonist has comparable efficacy and tolerability in the treatment of OAB patients with and without concomitant diabetes.

UI  - 24165056
TI  - Predictors and clinical implications of a false negative glucose challenge test in pregnancy.
AB  - False negative GCTs cannot be readily predicted by risk factors. However, their clinical implications at delivery may be benign.

UI  - 24165020
TI  - The role of androgen receptor CAG repeat polymorphism and other factors which affect the clinical response to testosterone replacement in metabolic syndrome and type 2 diabetes: TIMES2 sub-study.
AB  - AR CAG affected the response of some variables to TRT in the TIMES2 study, although the association with HOMA-IR did not reach significance. Various factors may have limited the power of our study to detect the significant associations between AR CAG, testosterone levels and change in variables with testosterone treatment. Analysis of similar data sets from other clinical trials is warranted.

UI  - 24159791
TI  - [Additional advantages of mexicor used in combined therapy of coronary heat disease and diabetes mellitus of 2nd type].
AB  - This open prospective randomized 16-week study of combined therapy of coronary heat disease (CHD) and and diabetes mellitus of 2nd type (DM2) with secondary non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) including mexicor was designed to estimate structural and functional liver characteristics. Mexicor was shown to act as a hepatoprotector reducing the frequency of cytolithic syndrome when used together with statins in combined therapy of atherogenic dyslipidemia. It also significantly decreased the number of patients with elevated levels of gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase. These changes suggest favourable prognosis for patients with CHD and DM2 because enhanced activity of this enzyme is believed to be a predictor of high cardiovascular risk. Mexicor promoted combined hypolipidemic effect, reduced the degree of insulin resistance, improved hepatic metabolism, and lowered cardiovascular risks in patients with CHD and DM2.

UI  - 24159659
TI  - Collagen matrix wound dressings and the treatment of DFUs.
AB  - 

UI  - 24159603
TI  - Advanced diabetic nephropathy with nephrotic range proteinuria: a pilot study of the long-term efficacy of subcutaneous ACTH gel on proteinuria, progression of CKD, and urinary levels of VEGF and MCP-1.
AB  - ACTH gel stabilizes renal function and reduces urinary protein for up to 6 months after treatment. The ClinTrials.gov identifier is NCT01028287.

UI  - 24159274
TI  - Registry-based diabetes risk detection schema for the systematic identification of patients at risk for diabetes in West Virginia primary care centers.
AB  - Approximately 466,000 West Virginians, or about 25 percent of the state population, have prediabetes and are at high risk for developing type 2 diabetes. Appropriate lifestyle intervention can prevent or delay the onset of type 2 diabetes if individuals at risk are identified and treated early. The West Virginia Diabetes Prevention and Control Program and the West Virginia University Office of Health Services Research are developing a systematic approach to diabetes prevention within primary care. This study aims to demonstrate the viability of patient registry software for the analysis of disparate electronic health record (EHR) data sets and standardized identification of at-risk patients for early detection and intervention. Preliminary analysis revealed that of 94,283 patients without a documented diagnosis of diabetes or prediabetes, 10,673 (11.3 percent) meet one or more of the risk criteria. This study indicates that EHR data can be repurposed into an actionable registry for prevention. This model supports meaningful use of EHRs, the Patient-Centered Medical Home program, and improved care through enhanced data management.

UI  - 24158987
TI  - Association between body composition and frailty among prevalent hemodialysis patients: a US Renal Data System special study.
AB  - Studies of frailty among patients on hemodialysis have relied on definitions that substitute self-reported functioning for measures of physical performance and omit weight loss or substitute alternate criteria. We examined the association between body composition and a definition of frailty that includes measured physical performance and weight loss in a cross-sectional analysis of 638 adult patients receiving maintenance hemodialysis at 14 centers. Frailty was defined as having three of following characteristics: weight loss, weakness, exhaustion, low physical activity, and slow gait speed. We performed logistic regression with body mass index (BMI) and bioelectrical impedance spectroscopy (BIS)-derived estimates of intracellular water (ICW), fat mass, and extracellular water (ECW) as the main predictors, and age, sex, race, and comorbidity as covariates. Overall, 30% of participants were frail. Older age (odds ratio [OR], 1.31 per 10 years; 95% confidence interval [95% CI], 1.14 to 1.50), diabetes (OR, 1.65; 95% CI, 1.13 to 2.40), higher fat mass (OR, 1.18; 95% CI, 1.02 to 1.37), and higher ECW (OR, 1.33; 95% CI, 1.20 to 1.47) associated with higher odds of frailty. Higher ICW associated with lower odds of frailty (OR, 0.80 per kg; 95% CI, 0.73 to 0.87). The addition of BMI data did not change the area under the receiver operating characteristics curve (AUC; AUC=0.66 versus 0.66; P=0.71), but the addition of BIS data did change the AUC (AUC=0.72; P<0.001). Thus, individual components of body composition but not BMI associate strongly with frailty in this cohort of patients receiving hemodialysis.

UI  - 24158729
TI  - Branch retinal vein occlusion: natural history of visual outcome.
AB  - Major and macular BRVOs are 2 distinct clinical entities, and initial visual status and final visual outcome in the 2 types are quite different. Overall, on resolution of macular edema, our study suggests that in both major and macular BRVO, VA and visual fields improved to a variable degree in the majority of eyes without any treatment.

UI  - 24157192
TI  - Comparison of statin alone versus bezafibrate and statin combination in patients with diabetes mellitus and acute coronary syndrome.
AB  - Acute coronary syndromes (ACS) in patients with diabetes mellitus (DM) are associated with a high risk for major adverse cardiovascular events (MACEs) despite statin treatment. The impact of combined bezafibrate and statin therapy in patients with DM and ACS has not been specifically investigated. The aim of this study was to evaluate the association of combined therapy with 30-day MACEs in patients with DM participating in the nationwide Acute Coronary Syndrome Israeli Surveys (ACSIS). The study population comprised 3,063 patients with DM from the ACSIS 2000, 2002, 2004, 2006, 2008, and 2010 enrollment waves who were alive at discharge and received statins. Of these, 225 (7.3%) received on discharge combined bezafibrate and statin therapy, and 2,838 (92.7%) were treated with statins alone. MACEs were defined as a composite measure of death, recurrent myocardial infarction, recurrent ischemia, stent thrombosis, ischemic stroke, and urgent revascularization. The development of 30-day MACEs was recorded in 8% patients receiving combination therapy and 14.2% of those receiving statins alone (p = 0.01). Crude 1-year mortality and 30-day rehospitalization rates were also significantly lower in patients receiving combination therapy: 4.0% versus 8.1% (p = 0.03) and 13.3% versus 21.6% (p = 0.003), respectively. Multivariate analysis identified combined therapy as an independent predictor of reduced risk for 30-day MACEs, with an odds ratio of 0.56 (95% confidence interval 0.34 to 0.92), corresponding to a 44% relative risk reduction. In conclusion, a significantly lower risk for 30-day MACEs was observed in statin-treated patients with DM who also received bezafibrate after ACS. Signals regarding improvement of 30-day rehospitalization and 1-year mortality rates emerged as well.

UI  - 24156642
TI  - Comparative effectiveness of hypoglycemic medications among veterans.
AB  - Our findings suggest chlorpropamide, glipizide, glyburide, insulin, and rosiglitazone increased severity-adjusted mortality in veterans with type 2 diabetes. A decision aid that could optimize selection of hypoglycemic medications based on patients' comorbidities might increase patients' survival.

UI  - 24156397
TI  - Reducing the stigma of mental illness in undergraduate medical education: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Psychiatric education can decrease the stigma of mental illness and increase student confidence. However, one-time, contact-based educational interventions require further evaluation in this context. The key components are postulated to be contact, knowledge and attention to process, where attending to the student's internal experience of working with people with mental illness is an integral factor in modulating perceptions of mental illness and a psychiatric career.

UI  - 24152796
TI  - Serum urate levels are unchanged with continuous positive airway pressure therapy for obstructive sleep apnea: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Our randomized controlled trial has shown no significant reduction in serum urate following 3months treatment with therapeutic or placebo CPAP.

UI  - 24152757
TI  - Predictors of change in objectively measured and self-reported health behaviours among individuals with recently diagnosed type 2 diabetes: longitudinal results from the ADDITION-Plus trial cohort.
AB  - Older patients, men and those with a longer duration of diabetes may need more intensive support for dietary change. We recommend that future studies use objective measurement of health behaviours and that researchers add predictors beyond the individual level. Our results support a focus on establishing healthy lifestyle changes early in the diabetes disease trajectory.

UI  - 24152567
TI  - Effect of cilostazol addition or clopidogrel doubling on platelet function profiles in diabetic patients undergoing a percutaneous coronary intervention.
AB  - Adjunctive treatment with cilostazol in T2DM patients on standard dual antiplatelet therapy might be a more effective strategy for overcoming clopidogrel resistance than clopidogrel doubling treatment.

UI  - 24148850
TI  - Serological autoantibody profiling of type 1 diabetes by protein arrays.
AB  - Protein microarrays provide a high-throughput platform that enables the profiling of serum antibodies to a large number of protein antigens. The value of AAb biomarkers in diagnosis, prognosis and treatment is well recognized in autoimmune diseases including T1D. We performed a systematic screening for new T1D-associated autoantigens by adapting the innovative protein array platform NAPPA. We believe that the discovery in this study will add information on candidate autoantigens that could potentially improve the diagnosis and help uncover the pathophysiology of T1D. The successful use of NAPPA for T1D AAb profiling will open the window for larger studies including more human antigen genes and other autoimmune diseases.

UI  - 24146542
TI  - Leukocytes from diabetic patients kill retinal endothelial cells: effects of berberine.
AB  - Our findings suggest that leukocytes from diabetic patients kill retinal endothelial cells, and that berberine can inhibit this leukocyte-mediated killing of vascular endothelium. Coculture of leukocytes with HRECs might serve as a biomarker to study the role of leukocytes in the development of diabetic retinopathy, and the data are consistent with berberine being a therapy against diabetic retinopathy.

UI  - 24146363
TI  - Aerobic training in older adults with type 2 diabetes and vasodepressive carotid sinus hypersensitivity.
AB  - Aerobic training has no effect on the SBP response to CSM in OADM subjects with V-CSH. Unlike in other neuroautonomic etiologies for fainting, aerobic exercise is not effective as a treatment for V-CSH, at least in the OADM population.

UI  - 24145042
TI  - Clinical and economic assessment of diabetic foot ulcer debridement with collagenase: results of a randomized controlled study.
AB  - CCO treatment provides equivalent debridement of DFUs similar to SMG while fostering better progress toward healing as measured by decreasing wound area over time and improved response rates at the end of follow-up. In addition, CCO yields a more favorable cost-effectiveness ratio in both the physician office and hospital outpatient department settings of care. ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT01056198.

UI  - 24144073
TI  - Predictors of sustained reduction in energy and fat intake in the Diabetes Prevention Program Outcomes Study intensive lifestyle intervention.
AB  - Intensive lifestyle intervention can result in reductions in total energy intake for up to 9 years. Initial success in achieving reductions in fat and energy intake and success in attaining activity goals appear to predict long-term success at maintaining changes.

UI  - 24141239
TI  - Insulin sensitizing and anti-inflammatory effects of thiazolidinediones are heightened in obese patients.
AB  - These findings support the efficacy of pioglitazone to improve insulin resistance and reduce adipose tissue inflammation in obese patients with T2DM.

UI  - 24140099
TI  - Higher serum bilirubin level as a protective factor for the development of diabetes in healthy Korean men: a 4 year retrospective longitudinal study.
AB  - The results indicate that serum total bilirubin level may provide additional information for predicting future development of type 2 diabetes in healthy subjects.

UI  - 24139704
TI  - A comparison of the pharmacodynamic profiles of insulin detemir and insulin glargine: a single dose clamp study in people with type 2 diabetes.
AB  - In persons with T2DM, no difference in duration of action following a single subcutaneous dose of insulin detemir and insulin glargine could be observed. Insulin detemir showed greater between subject variability and achieved a significantly higher maximum GIR than insulin glargine.

UI  - 24139013
TI  - Whole body vibration therapy for painful diabetic peripheral neuropathy: a pilot study.
AB  - The unsatisfactory results associated with conventional treatments for symptoms of diabetic peripheral neuropathy (DPN) demonstrate a need for research into alternative therapies. The purpose of this study was to determine the efficacy of whole body vibration therapy (WBV) as a treatment for pain associated with DPN. Participants (n=8) with painful DPN received three treatment sessions per week for four weeks. Each session consisted of four bouts of 3min of vibration (frequency 25Hz, amplitude 5mm). The primary outcome measures were changes in the visual analog pain scale (VAS) and changes in the neuropathic pain scale (NPS). WBV demonstrated a significant (p<0.05) acute pain reduction in the VAS, and a significant chronic reduction in both the VAS and NPS scales. No side-effects were observed during this study. WBV appears to be an effective, non-invasive treatment for pain associated with DPN.

UI  - 24138325
TI  - An evidence-based shared decision making programme on the prevention of myocardial infarction in type 2 diabetes: protocol of a randomised-controlled trial.
AB  - ISRCTN84636255.

UI  - 24137964
TI  - [A combination of dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitor and metformin in the treatment of patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus: effective control of glycemia, weight, and quantitative body composition].
AB  - The glucose-lowering efficiency of combination therapy with metformin + vildagliptin, a DPP-4 inhibitor, was comparable with that of a metformin + SU combination, but safer with respect to the risk of developing hypoglycemia. Addition of vildaglptin to metformin monotherapy may cause an additional favorable effect in reducing body weight at the expense of a fat component, with the lean body mass being preserved, and in elevating the level of adiponectin, an adipose tissue-derived antiatherogenic hormone.

UI  - 24135218
TI  - 25 (OH) vitamin D levels and renal disease progression in patients with type 2 diabetic nephropathy and blockade of the renin-angiotensin system.
AB  - These results show that 25 (OH) vitamin D deficiency is independently associated with a higher risk of the composite outcome in patients with type II diabetic nephropathy.

UI  - 24132976
TI  - Effects of vitamin D supplementation on glucose metabolism, lipid concentrations, inflammation, and oxidative stress in gestational diabetes: a double-blind randomized controlled clinical trial.
AB  - Vitamin D supplementation in pregnant women with GDM had beneficial effects on glycemia and total and LDL-cholesterol concentrations but did not affect inflammation and oxidative stress. This trial was registered at www.irct.ir as IRCT201305115623N7.

UI  - 24132772
TI  - An open-label drug-drug interaction study of the steady-state pharmacokinetics of topiramate and glyburide in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - Glyburide did not affect the pharmacokinetics of topiramate. Co-administration of topiramate decreased systemic exposure of glyburide and its active metabolites; combined treatment may require dosing adjustments of glyburide as per clinical judgment and glycemic control.

UI  - 24132011
TI  - Detecting diabetic risk using the oral glucose tolerance test in Chinese patients with hypertension: a cross-sectional study.
AB  - To analyze the clinical significance of the oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) in the assessment of abnormal glucose metabolism in Chinese patients with hypertension. In this cross-sectional study of 10,173 hypertensive adult patients from eight sites in China, data on patient, clinical and disease characteristics were collected, and fasting plasma glucose (FPG) levels were measured. A subset of 5322 patients also underwent an OGTT. Abnormal glucose metabolism (impaired glucose regulation (IGR) or diabetes mellitus (DM)) was detected in 31.1% of the 10,173 patients by FPG testing and in 67% of the 5322 patients by OGTT. OGTT increased the detection rate by 35.8%. Patients with FPG levels 5.6 and 6.1mmoll(-1) had the mean OGTT 2-h plasma glucose levels of 8.79 and 9.68mmoll(-1), respectively. Compared with normoglycemic patients, those with IGR or DM had higher rates of total proteinuria (normoglycemic 15.8% vs. IGR 22.1% vs. DM 33.7%, P<0.001), a lower absolute estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR; in mlmin(-1) per 1.73m(2)) (82.9 vs. 80.77 vs. 79.74, P=0.06) and a higher prevalence of cardiovascular disease (normoglycemic 17.6% vs. IGR/DM 13.8%, P<0.001). Abnormal abdominal circumference, eGFR 60mlmin(-1) per 1.73m(2), and proteinuria were independently associated with abnormal glucose metabolism (IGR or DM). Hypertensive patients who are diabetic or at risk of diabetes are at greater risk of renal damage and cardiovascular disease than those who are normoglycemic. It is insufficient to assess the glucose metabolism status of Chinese hypertensive patients using only FPG testing; the use of OGTT can increase the detection rate by 35.8%. Patients whose FPG levels were <5.6mmoll(-1) may be found to have abnormal glucose metabolism after an OGTT.

UI  - 24129595
TI  - Implementation of the power to prevent diabetes prevention educational curriculum into rural African American communities: a feasibility study.
AB  - While it is feasible to use a CBPR approach to recruit participants and implement the P2P curriculum in AA community settings, there are significant challenges that must be overcome.

UI  - 24129463
TI  - Quality of life after PCI vs CABG among patients with diabetes and multivessel coronary artery disease: a randomized clinical trial.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00086450.

UI  - 24129396
TI  - Determinants of reversibility of -cell dysfunction in response to short-term intensive insulin therapy in patients with early type 2 diabetes.
AB  - Short-term intensive insulin therapy (IIT) can improve pancreatic -cell function when administered early in the course of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). However, the degree of improvement in response to this therapy varies between patients. Thus, we sought to characterize the determinants of improvement in -cell function in response to short-term IIT in early T2DM. Sixty-three patients with mean 3.0  2.1 yr duration of T2DM and Hb A1c of 6.8  0.8% underwent 4 wk of IIT consisting of basal insulin detemir and premeal insulin aspart, with oral glucose tolerance test administered at baseline and 1 day post-IIT. -Cell function before and after IIT was assessed by Insulin Secretion Sensitivity Index-2 (ISSI-2). Reversibility of -cell dysfunction was defined as percentage change in ISSI-2 of 25%. Overall, the study population experienced an increase in ISSI-2 from baseline to post-IIT (P = 0.01), with one-third of participants achieving 25% improvement in ISSI-2. Compared with their peers, those with increases in ISSI-2 of 25% had greater decrements in fasting glucose (P < 0.0001), Hb A1c (P = 0.001), ALT (P = 0.04), AST (P = 0.02), and HOMA-IR (P < 0.0001). On logistical regression analysis, baseline Hb A1c (OR = 2.83, 95% CI 1.16-6.88, P = 0.02) and change in HOMA-IR (OR = 0.008, 95%CI 0.0004-0.16, P = 0.001) emerged as independent predictors of reversibility of -cell dysfunction. Indeed, reversibility of -cell dysfunction was achieved in only those participants in whom IIT yielded an improvement in HOMA-IR. In conclusion, decline in HOMA-IR may be a key determinant of improvement of -cell function in response to short-term IIT, suggesting a fundamental contribution of insulin resistance to the reversible component of -cell dysfunction in early T2DM.

UI  - 24129363
TI  - Effects of Avena nuda L. on metabolic control and cardiovascular disease risk among Chinese patients with diabetes and meeting metabolic syndrome criteria: secondary analysis of a randomized clinical trial.
AB  - Compared with diet alone or no diet, 50-100g/day ONOG supplement to structured dietary intervention, at a dose of 100g/day especially, contributes to the Type 2 DM patients meeting MetS criteria in their metabolic control and CVD risk prevention, with external factors being controlled.

UI  - 24124961
TI  - A novel insulin combination of insulin degludec and insulin aspart achieves a more stable overnight glucose profile than insulin glargine: results from continuous glucose monitoring in a proof-of-concept trial.
AB  - IDegAsp given with the evening meal reduces postdinner glucose excursion and provides more stable nocturnal glycemia as compared with IGlar.

UI  - 24124952
TI  - Model-based closed-loop glucose control in type 1 diabetes: the DiaCon experience.
AB  - This study suggests that our novel MPC algorithm can safely and effectively control glucose overnight, also when CL control is initiated during hyperglycemia.

UI  - 24124951
TI  - Using simulation technology to teach diabetes care management skills to resident physicians.
AB  - A virtual diabetes educational activity to teach cognitive skills to manage diabetes to primary care residents was successfully developed, implemented, and well liked. It significantly improved self-assessed knowledge and confidence in diabetes management.

UI  - 24124935
TI  - Morphological pattern classification system for plantar thermography of patients with diabetes.
AB  - Thermographic patterns found by the new computer-based system were similar to those obtained in our previous subjective work. The classification system found forefoot-low pattern and tiptoe-low pattern objectively. The system based on infrared thermography will be a screening tool to assess circulatory status in daily foot care of patients with DM.

UI  - 24122848
TI  - Antiviral treatment for hepatitis C virus infection is associated with improved renal and cardiovascular outcomes in diabetic patients.
AB  - Antiviral treatment for HCV infection is associated with improved renal and cardiovascular outcomes in diabetic patients.

UI  - 24122240
TI  - Medication costs by glucose tolerance stage in younger and older women and men: results from the population-based KORA survey in Germany.
AB  - To estimate medication costs in individuals with diagnosed diabetes, undetected diabetes, impaired glucose regulation and normal blood glucose values in a population-based sample by age and sex.Using the KORA F4 follow-up survey, conducted in 2006-2008 (n=2611, age 40-82 years), we identified individuals' glucose tolerance status by means of an oral glucose tolerance test. We assessed all medications taken regularly, calculated age-sex specific medication costs and estimated cost ratios for total, total without antihyperglycemic drugs, and cardiovascular medication, using multiple 2-part regression models.Compared to individuals with normal glucose values, costs were increased in known diabetes, undetected diabetes and impaired glucose regulation, which was more pronounced in participants aged 40-59 years than in those aged 60-82 years (cost ratios for all medications: 40-59 years: 2.85; 95%-confidence interval: 1.78-4.54, 2.00; 1.22-3.29 and 1.53; 1.12-2.09; 60-82 years: 2.04; 1.71-2.43, 1.17; 0.90-1.51 and 1.09; 0.94-1.28). Compared to individuals with diagnosed diabetes, costs were significantly lower among individuals with impaired glucose regulation across all age and sex strata, also when antihyperglycemic medication was excluded (40-59 years: 0.60; 0.36-0.98, 60-82 years: 0.74; 0.60-0.90; men: 0.72; 0.56-0.93; women: 0.72; 0.54-0.96).We could quantify age- and sex-specific medication costs and cost ratios in individuals with diagnosed diabetes, undetected diabetes and impaired glucose regulation compared to those with normal glucose values, using data of a population-based sample, with oral glucose tolerance test-based identification of diabetes states. These results may help to validly estimate cost-effectiveness of screening and early treatment or prevention of diabetes.

UI  - 24121994
TI  - Early immunotherapy using autologous adult stem cells reversed the effect of anti-pancreatic islets in recently diagnosed type 1 diabetes mellitus: preliminary results.
AB  - Treatment with autologous bone marrow stem cells is easy and effective as it reversed the production and effect of anti pancreatic islet antibody and significantly resulted in an increased c-peptide concentration.

UI  - 24121944
TI  - [Sense of coherence and cardiovascular risk: an observational study].
AB  - The aim of this study was to analyze possible existing correlations among the three dimensions of the sense of coherence (SOC), as a psychosocial risk factor, and some other cardiovascular risk factors in a group of primary care patients. Seventy-one persons at high cardiovascular risk were identified by their general practitioners and invited to answer the 13 questions included in the Antonovsky's SOC questionnaire. Psychosocial risk evaluation, performed with SOC analysis, may provide an important added value in the identification of behavioral changes and cardiovascular risk reduction.

UI  - 24120715
TI  - High-quality triplicate electrocardiogram monitoring in a first-in-man study: potential for early detection of drug-induced QT prolongation.
AB  - Clinically relevant QT interval prolongations can be detected during first-in-man studies using high-quality ECG monitoring. Such data may facilitate early decision making on whether to terminate the development of a compound and invest resources in more promising molecules; and it may enable more efficient TQT study design or preclude the need for future TQT studies.

UI  - 24120281
TI  - Diabetes, peripheral neuropathy, and lower-extremity function.
AB  - One hundred twenty-six (12.8%) participants had diabetes. Adjusting for age, sex, education, and other confounders, diabetic participants had decreased SPPB (=-0.99; p<0.01), decreased walking speed (=-0.1m/s; p<0.01), decreased nerve conduction velocity (=-1.7m/s; p<0.01), and increased neuropathy (=0.25; p<0.01) compared to non-diabetic participants. Adjusting for nerve conduction velocity and neuropathy score decreased the effect of diabetes on SPPB by 20%, suggesting partial mediation through decreased PNF.

UI  - 24119586
TI  - [Baseline characteristics and indicators of support for new dialysis patients in 2011].
AB  - This chapter provides a set of indicators on incident patients starting renal replacement therapy (RRT) in France between the 1st of January 2011 and the 31(st) of December 2011. Even if End-Stage Renal Disease can be found in all classes of ages, elders provide the majority of new patients (median age at RRT start: 71 years old). Those patients present a high rate of disabilities especially diabetes (41% of the new patients) and cardiovascular disabilities (>50% of the new patients) that increase with age. Considering treatment and follow-up, the first treatment remains center's hemodialysis and we do not notice any progression of self-dialysis. RRT started in emergency in 33% of the patients. This finding contrasts with the fact that 56% of patients started hemodialysis on a catheter. This, together with the major interregion variability, suggests that different strategies of management exist. Finally, the hemoglobin level at RRT start seems to be an interesting indicator of good management and follow-up since 13% of patients presenting an underprovided follow-up have a hemoglobin level under 10g/dL, whereas only 2.5% of patients with an appropriate follow-up presented such a condition.

UI  - 24119579
TI  - [Access to the waiting list and renal transplantation].
AB  - This chapter provides a set of indicators related to Renal Transplantation access in France. It describes patient outcomes and reports on cumulative incidence rates of wait-listing and renal transplantation according to main patient of characteristics and regions. The REIN registry integrates kidney transplant and dialysis data. It provides a comprehensive view on waiting list and renal transplantation access to the patients, nephrologists, and national or regional health authorities. Access to the waiting list is evaluated on a cohort of 51,845 new patients who started dialysis between 2002 and 2011 in 25 regions. The probability of first wait-listing was of 3.7% at the start of dialysis (pre-emptive registrations), 15% at 12, 22% at 36 and 24% to 60 months. The probability of being registered was strongly related to age, diabetes and region. Patient older than 60 had a very poor access to the waiting list, whatever their diabetes status was. Probability of first wait-listing was much lower (36.5% at 60 months) in type 2 diabetic-40 to 59 years old patients. Among 13,653 patients less than 60 years old, the probability of being registered was 11% at the start of dialysis, 43% to 12 months, 62% to 36 months and 66% to 60 months (median dialysis duration: 16 months). Seventeen regions with up to 5 years follow-up show an increase of 8 to 15% in pre-emptive registrations between 2007 and 2001, without change at 1 year. Access to kidney transplant is evaluated on a cohort of 53,301 new patients who started a renal replacement therapy (dialysis or pre-emptive renal transplant) between 2002 and 2011 in 25 regions. The probability of first kidney transplant was of 7% at 12, 17% at 36 and 21% at 60 months. 8,633 patients (16,2%) had received a first renal transplant within 14.7 month median time; 1,455 (2.7%) had received a pre-emptive graft [male: 58%, median age: 48.7y]. Among the 14,770 new patients less than 60 years old, the probability of being transplanted was of 21% at 12, 46% at 36 and 58% at 60 months (median dialysis duration: 42 months). When pre-emptive graft were excluded, the probability of being transplanted was of 5% at 12, 15% to 36 and 19% to 60 months Insofar as kidney transplant is regarded as the most efficient treatment, access to the waiting list and renal transplant are sensitive issues.

UI  - 24118794
TI  - Association between lowered endothelial function measured by peripheral arterial tonometry and cardio-metabolic risk factors - a cross-sectional study of Finnish municipal workers at risk of diabetes and cardiovascular disease.
AB  - F-RHI is associated with several cardio-metabolic risk factors; low level of HDL cholesterol, male sex, overweight and smoking being the most important predictors of a lowered endothelial function. A large part of variation in F-RHI remains accounted for by unknown factors.

UI  - 24118688
TI  - Efficacy and safety of canagliflozin in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus inadequately controlled with metformin and sulphonylurea: a randomised trial.
AB  - Canagliflozin improved glycaemic control, reduced body weight, and was generally well tolerated in T2DM patients on metformin plus sulphonylurea over 52weeks.

UI  - 24118640
TI  - Initial combination of linagliptin and metformin in patients with type 2 diabetes: efficacy and safety in a randomised, double-blind 1-year extension study.
AB  - The initial combination of linagliptin and metformin appears to provide a useful treatment option in patients whose blood glucose levels are increased to an extent that metformin monotherapy may not achieve treatment targets.

UI  - 24117102
TI  - Health promotion for patients with diabetes: health coaching or formal health education?
AB  - The present findings may imply that HC has a significantly greater impact on better management of oral health and glycaemic control than HE. It is notable that the impact was more significant among high-risk group patients, thus HC may be recommended especially for high-risk group patients.

UI  - 24113736
TI  - Plasma adropin levels predict endothelial dysfunction like flow-mediated dilatation in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - Adropin is a new marker for use in demonstrating endothelial dysfunction.

UI  - 24113668
TI  - Exenatide once weekly versus daily basal insulin as add-on treatment to metformin with or without a sulfonylurea: a retrospective pooled analysis in patients with poor glycemic control.
AB  - Basal insulin (b-INS) is typically the add-on treatment of choice for patients with poor glycemic control (ie, glycated hemoglobin [HbA1c] level  8.5%), but it is unclear whether b-INS is the best option. In this post hoc analysis, the efficacy and tolerability of exenatide once weekly (EQW) were compared with those of b-INS in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and a baseline HbA1c level 8.5% who were undergoing treatment with metformin  a sulfonylurea. Data were pooled from two 26-week, randomized, controlled trials (EQW vs insulin glargine and EQW vs insulin detemir [EQW, N = 137; b-INS, N = 126]). Treatment with either EQW or b-INS for 26 weeks was associated with significant improvements in HbA1c level compared with baseline, although patients treated with EQW experienced a significantly greater decrease in HbA1c level than those treated with b-INS (least squares [LS] mean  SE: -2.0%  0.08% vs -1.6%  0.08%; P = 0.0008). Treatment with EQW was associated with a weight loss of 2.4 kg  0.23 kg (LS mean  SE), whereas treatment with b-INS was associated with a weight gain of 2.0 kg  0.24 kg (LS mean difference between groups, -4.4 kg  0.33; P < 0.0001). Patients in the EQW group were significantly more likely to achieve the composite endpoint of an HbA1c level < 7.0%, no weight gain, and no hypoglycemic events (defined as a blood glucose level < 54 mg/dL requiring self-treatment or assistance to resolve) than patients in the b-INS group (33.6% vs 3.2%; P < 0.0001). The exposure-adjusted hypoglycemic event rates were 0.08 and 0.37 events per patient-year in the EQW and b-INS groups, respectively. Gastrointestinal adverse events occurred at a higher rate in patients who underwent EQW treatment than those who were treated with b-INS. These results show that EQW treatment was associated with significantly greater improvement in HbA1c level compared with b-INS treatment among patients with poor glycemic control, with the added benefits of weight loss (vs weight gain with b-INS therapy) and a lower incidence of hypoglycemic events. These results suggest that EQW is an alternative treatment to b-INS for patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and a baseline HbA1c level  8.5%.

UI  - 24113620
TI  - Diabetes mellitus without metformin intake is associated with worse oncologic outcomes after radical nephroureterectomy for upper tract urothelial carcinoma.
AB  - Diabetic UTUC patients without metformin use have significantly worse oncologic outcomes than diabetics who used metformin and non-diabetics. The possible mechanism behind the impact of DM on UTUC biology and the potentially protective effect of metformin need further elucidation.

UI  - 24112669
TI  - Risk factors for umbilical trocar site incisional hernia in laparoscopic cholecystectomy: a prospective 3-year follow-up study.
AB  - Umbilical TSIH is highly prevalent. This study identified several factors that could be useful to introduce preventive measures in high-risk patients.

UI  - 24112450
TI  - Vardenafil improves penile erection in type 2 diabetes mellitus patients with erectile dysfunction: role of tropomyosin.
AB  - Vardenafil administration improved erectile functionality in controlled type 2 diabetes mellitus patients with ED, which was associated with reduction of circulating plasma -tropomyosin levels. Tropomyosin affected by itself the cGMP generating system suggesting a possible new mechanism involved in ED. Vardenafil reversed the reduction effect of cGMP content elicited by tropomyosin in BAECs.

UI  - 24112417
TI  - Rationale, design, and methodology for the optimizing outcomes in women with gestational diabetes mellitus and their infants study.
AB  - NCT01809431.

UI  - 24112411
TI  - Diabetes mellitus and tuberculosis: pattern of tuberculosis, two-month smear conversion and treatment outcomes in Guangzhou, China.
AB  - Diabetes mellitus in new smear-positive patients with PTB was associated with failure to sputum smear convert at 2 months and adverse treatment outcomes of loss-to-follow-up and failure. Further research is needed to understand the reasons for these findings and to determine whether the current length of treatment of 6 months is adequate.

UI  - 24111905
TI  - Cardiac complications and diabetes in thalassaemia major: a large historical multicentre study.
AB  - The relationship between diabetes mellitus (DM) and cardiac complications has never been systematically studied in thalassaemia major (TM). We evaluated a large retrospective historical cohort of TM to determine whether DM is associated with a higher risk of heart complications. We compared 86 TM patients affected by DM with 709 TM patients without DM consecutively included in the Myocardial Iron Overload in Thalassaemia database where clinical/instrumental data are recorded from birth to the first cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR) exam. All of the cardiac events considered were developed after the DM diagnosis. In DM patients versus non-DM patients we found a significantly higher frequency of cardiac complications (46.5% vs. 16.9%, P < 0.0001), heart failure (HF) (30.2% vs. 11.7%, P < 0.0001), hyperkinetic arrhythmias (18.6% vs. 5.5%, P < 0.0001) and myocardial fibrosis assessed by late gadolinium enhancement (29.9% vs. 18.4%, P = 0.008). TM patients with DM had a significantly higher risk of cardiac complications [odds ratio (OR) 2.84, P < 0.0001], HF (OR 2.32, P = 0.003), hyperkinetic arrhythmias (OR 2.21, P = 0.023) and myocardial fibrosis (OR 1.91, P = 0.021), also adjusting for the absence of myocardial iron overload assessed by T2* CMR and for the covariates (age and/or endocrine co-morbidity). In conclusion, DM significantly increases the risk for cardiac complications, HF, hyperkinetic arrhythmias and myocardial fibrosis in TM patients.

UI  - 24111623
TI  - The effectiveness of a proactive coping intervention targeting self-management in diabetes patients.
AB  - The original intervention is effective, but the added value of the booster sessions is uncertain.

UI  - 24107856
TI  - Process evaluation results from the HEALTHY nutrition intervention to modify the total school food environment.
AB  - The process evaluation of HEALTHY, a large multi-center trial to decrease type 2 diabetes mellitus in middle school children, monitored the implementation of the intervention to ascertain the extent that components were delivered and received as intended. The purpose of this article is to report the process evaluation findings concerning the extent to which the HEALTHY nutrition intervention was implemented during the HEALTHY trial. Overall, the observed fidelity of implementing nutrition strategies improved from baseline to the end of the study. By the last semester, all but two nutrition process evaluation goals were met. The most challenging goal to implement was serving high fiber foods, including grain-based foods and legumes. The easiest goals to implement were lowering the fat content of foods offered and offering healthier beverages. The most challenging barriers experienced by research dietitians and food service staff were costs, availability of foods and student acceptance. Forming strong relationships between the research dietitians and food service staff was identified as a key strategy to meet HEALTHY nutrition goals.

UI  - 24107738
TI  - Low dose spironolactone reduces blood pressure in patients with resistant hypertension and type 2 diabetes mellitus: a double blind randomized clinical trial.
AB  - Low dose spironolactone exerts significant BP and urinary albumin creatinine ratio lowering effects in high-risk patients with resistant hypertension and type 2 diabetes mellitus.

UI  - 24107278
TI  - Hemoglobin maintenance and dosing strategies using intravenous continuous erythropoietin receptor activator in Japanese hemodialysis patients.
AB  - Methoxy polyethylene glycol-epoetin beta, a continuous erythropoietin receptor activator (CERA), is reported to be effective in managing renal anemia but there is little data about CERA in Japan. This study aimed to ascertain the effects of CERA in Japanese hemodialysis patients and the appropriate starting dose of CERA when switching from other erythropoiesis-stimulating agents. We switched 61 stable hemodialysis patients to 4-weekly intravenous CERA, from either epoetin beta (rHuEPO) or darbepoetin alpha (DA). When determining the initial dose of CERA, we used guidelines recommended by the Japanese supplier for switching from rHuEPO, but for DA we based the CERA dose on European reports, because no Japanese guidelines exist. Fifty-two patients completed the 28-week study. Hemoglobin was maintained within the target range (10.0-12.0g/dL). The required CERA dose decreased over the 28 weeks. The hemoglobin level and CERA dose stabilized faster when switching from DA. CERA showed similar efficacy in diabetic and non-diabetic patients. The effect of CERA is similar regardless of whether patients switch from low- or high-dose erythropoiesis-stimulating agents. In conclusion, CERA is effective for Japanese hemodialysis patients at a lower dose than expected.

UI  - 24106997
TI  - Protocol for a randomised blocked design study using telephone and text-messaging to support cardiac patients with diabetes: a cross cultural international collaborative project.
AB  - ACTRN 12611001196932.

UI  - 24106787
TI  - Multicentre randomized controlled trial of structured transition on diabetes care management compared to standard diabetes care in adolescents and young adults with type 1 diabetes (Transition Trial).
AB  - NCT01351857.

UI  - 24106073
TI  - Relationship between glycated haemoglobin and subclinical atherosclerosis in obese children and adolescents.
AB  - Our research suggests that the adoption of HbA1C as a diagnostic criterion of prediabetes and diabetes in obese boys may help to identify early macrovascular complications.

UI  - 24103380
TI  - Dietary intake of n-3 long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids and risk of myocardial infarction in coronary artery disease patients with or without diabetes mellitus: a prospective cohort study.
AB  - This trial is registered at clinicaltrials.gov as NCT00354081.

UI  - 24102055
TI  - Effectiveness of green tea in a randomized human cohort: relevance to diabetes and its complications.
AB  - Epidemiological studies have argued that green tea could mitigate diabetes and its complications. This study investigated the phytophenolic profile of Mauritian green tea and its antioxidant propensity. The effect of green tea on the risk factors: waist-hip ratio, glucose level, arterial pressure, antioxidant status, and alanine aminotransferase (ALT) in prediabetics was assessed. The experimental group consumed 3 cups of green tea daily for 14 weeks followed by a 2-week washout period. The control group followed a water regimen. Green tea contained high level of phenolics related to its antioxidant power. Green tea suppressed waist-hip ratio of women from a significant increase and suppressed mean arterial pressure of men and women from a significant decrease after week 14. It reduced ALT level in women by 13.0% (P < 0.1) while increasing the antioxidant potential of men and women sera by 2.7% (P < 0.1) and 5.1% (P < 0.1). The study timescale may have been too short to enable demonstration of effects on fasting plasma glucose and HbA1c outcomes. Green tea regimen could form part of a healthy lifestyle that might ameliorate features of metabolic syndrome and subsequent risks for diabetes and its complications. This trial is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov NCT01248143.

UI  - 24100104
TI  - The second best arterial graft: a propensity analysis of the radial artery versus the free right internal thoracic artery to bypass the circumflex coronary artery.
AB  - Long-term survival is similar in CABG-LITA patients using either a RA or free RITA graft to bypass the circumflex coronary artery. RA grafting has fewer MAEs, a similar patency to RITA, and improves survival in older and COPD patients. The choice of the second arterial conduit should be guided by patient profiles and surgeon preferences.

UI  - 24099704
TI  - The HOT (Healthy Outcome for Teens) project. Using a web-based medium to influence attitude, subjective norm, perceived behavioral control and intention for obesity and type 2 diabetes prevention.
AB  - We hypothesized that Theory of Planned Behavior (TPB) constructs (behavioral belief, attitude, subjective norm, perceived behavioral control, knowledge and behavioral intention) regarding preventive behaviors for obesity and type 2 diabetes will change favorably after completing the web-based intervention, HOT (Healthy Outcome for Teens) project, grounded in the TPB; and that passive online learning (POL) group will improve more than the active online learning (AOL) group. The secondary hypothesis was to determine to what extent constructs of the TPB predict intentions. 216 adolescents were recruited, 127 randomly allocated to the treatment group (AOL) and 89 to the control group (POL). The subjects completed a TPB questionnaire pre and post intervention. Both POL and AOL groups showed significant improvements from pretest to posttest survey. However, the results indicated no significant difference between POL and AOL for all constructs except behavioral belief. Correlational analysis indicated that all TPB constructs were significantly correlated with intentions for pretest and posttest for both groups. Attitude and behavioral control showed strongest correlations. Regression analysis indicated that TPB constructs were predictive of intentions and the predictive power improved post intervention. Behavioral control consistently predicted intentions for all categories and was the strongest predictor for pretest scores. For posttest scores, knowledge and attitude were the strongest predictors for POL and AOL groups respectively. Thus, HOT project improved knowledge and the TPB constructs scores for targeted behaviors, healthy eating and physical activity, for prevention of obesity and type 2 diabetes.

UI  - 24099334
TI  - Impact of telehealth on general practice contacts: findings from the whole systems demonstrator cluster randomised trial.
AB  - International Standard Randomised Controlled Trial Number Register ISRCTN43002091.

UI  - 24098686
TI  - Elevated serum ferritin level is associated with the incident type 2 diabetes in healthy Korean men: a 4 year longitudinal study.
AB  - These results demonstrated that elevated level of serum ferritin at baseline was associated with incident type 2 diabetes in an Asian population.

UI  - 24098467
TI  - Pitavastatin and Atorvastatin double-blind randomized comPArative study among hiGh-risk patients, including thOse with Type 2 diabetes mellitus, in Taiwan (PAPAGO-T Study).
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT01386853 http://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT01386853?term=NCT01386853&rank=1.

UI  - 24096976
TI  - Diabetes mortality in Panama and related biological and socioeconomic risk factors.
AB  - Regional disparities in the association between DM mortality and DM risk factors reaffirm the heterogeneous composition of the Panamanian population and the uneven distribution of biological and social determinant risk factors in the country and point to the need to vary management strategies by geographic area for this important cause of disability and death in Panama.

UI  - 24094567
TI  - A brief psychological intervention to improve adherence in type 2 diabetes.
AB  - Contrary to conventional medical belief, discussing threatening personal events with patients can yield positive results. Health professionals should take threat and mastery perceptions of diabetes into account during regular consultations with a view to improving treatment acceptance and adherence. With this brief intervention of type 2 diabetes patients, it was also more effective to alleviate their emotional difficulties than to enhance their perception of mastery.

UI  - 24094494
TI  - Effects of a 12-wk whole-body vibration based intervention to improve type 2 diabetes.
AB  - ACTRN12613000021774.

UI  - 24094079
TI  - RESEARCH (Recognized effect of Statin and ezetimibe therapy for achieving LDL-C Goal), a randomized, doctor-oriented, multicenter trial to compare the effects of higher-dose statin versus ezetimibe-plus-statin on the serum LDL-C concentration of Japanese type-2 diabetes patients design and rationale.
AB  - RESEARCH is the first prospective, parallel-group, multicenter study comparing a double dose of strong statin with ezetimibe plus strong statin for T2DM patients. The RESEARCH study will provide reliable evidence with which to establish a clinical strategy for diabetics who fail to achieve the target LDL-C value.

UI  - 24092829
TI  - Diabetes modifies effect of high-phosphate diet on fibroblast growth factor-23 in chronic kidney disease.
AB  - PTH seems to play the major role in the regulation of phosphate excretion in DM CKD. The role of FGF-23 in phosphate disposal in DM CKD remains debatable.

UI  - 24090039
TI  - A randomized controlled pilot trial comparing the impact of access to clinical endocrinology video demonstrations with access to usual revision resources on medical student performance of clinical endocrinology skills.
AB  - Exposure to high quality videos demonstrating clinical skills can significantly improve medical student skill performance in an observed structured clinical examination of these skills, when used as an adjunct to clinical skills face-to-face tutorials and deliberate practice of skills in a blended learning format. Video demonstrations can provide an enduring, on-demand, portable resource for revision, which can even be used at the bedside by learners. Such resources are cost-effectively scalable for large numbers of learners.

UI  - 24089160
TI  - Factors related with the progression of chronic kidney disease.
AB  - The rate of decrease in eGFR was correlated with serum phosphate and PTH levels and proteinuria. All of these factors can be modified with an adequate treatment.

UI  - 24089158
TI  - Nutritional status and overhydration: can bioimpedance spectroscopy be useful in haemodialysis patients?
AB  - Taking these results into account, the ICW/BW and ECW/BW ratios, assessed with BIS, have proven to be good markers of the nutritional and inflammatory status of HD patients. BIS may be a useful tool for regularly assessing the nutritional and hydration status in these patients and may allow nutritional advice to be improved and adjusted.

UI  - 24089157
TI  - High prevalence of secondary hyperparathyroidism in chronic kidney disease patients on dialysis in Argentina.
AB  - The present study shows a high prevalence of secondary hyperparathyroidism, which differs from that published by other large population studies. There was a high proportion of patients with BMM markers outside the ranges suggested by K/DOQI. Mainly phosphate binders based on calcium and calcitriol continue to be used for the management of hyperphosphatemia and hyperparathyroidism respectively.

UI  - 24088749
TI  - Variations in inflammatory biomarkers following the addition of sitagliptin in patients with type 2 diabetes not controlled with metformin.
AB  - When treatment with metformin alone is not adequate for obtaining glycemic control, the addition of sitagliptin can be considered due to its actions in preserving the -cell function and reducing the levels of biomarkers of inflammation.

UI  - 24085506
TI  - Improvement in insulin sensitivity after human islet transplantation for type 1 diabetes.
AB  - Islet transplantation results in improved insulin sensitivity mediated by effects at both the liver and skeletal muscle. Modern dosing of glucocorticoid-free immunosuppression with low-dose tacrolimus and sirolimus does not induce insulin resistance in this population.

UI  - 24084515
TI  - Relation of the Mediterranean diet with the incidence of gestational diabetes.
AB  - Adherence to a MedDiet pattern of eating is associated with lower incidence of GDM and better degree of glucose tolerance, even in women without GDM. The possibility to use MedDiet for the prevention of GDM deserves further testing with intervention studies.

UI  - 24084051
TI  - Dietary magnesium intake improves insulin resistance among non-diabetic individuals with metabolic syndrome participating in a dietary trial.
AB  - Many cross-sectional studies show an inverse association between dietary magnesium and insulin resistance, but few longitudinal studies examine the ability to meet the Recommended Dietary Allowance (RDA) for magnesium intake through food and its effect on insulin resistance among participants with metabolic syndrome (MetS). The dietary intervention study examined this question in 234 individuals with MetS. Magnesium intake was assessed using 24-h dietary recalls at baseline, 6, and 12 months. Fasting glucose and insulin levels were collected at each time point; and insulin resistance was estimated by the homeostasis model assessment (HOMA-IR). The relation between magnesium intake and HOMA-IR was assessed using linear mixed models adjusted for covariates. Baseline magnesium intake was 287  93 mg/day (mean  standard deviation), and HOMA-IR, fasting glucose and fasting insulin were 3.7  3.5, 99  13 mg/dL, and 15  13 U/mL, respectively. At baseline, 6-, and 12-months, 23.5%, 30.4%, and 27.7% met the RDA for magnesium. After multivariate adjustment, magnesium intake was inversely associated with metabolic biomarkers of insulin resistance (P < 0.01). Further, the likelihood of elevated HOMA-IR (>3.6) over time was 71% lower [odds ratio (OR): 0.29; 95% confidence interval (CI): 0.12, 0.72] in participants in the highest quartile of magnesium intake than those in the lowest quartile. For individuals meeting the RDA for magnesium, the multivariate-adjusted OR for high HOMA-IR over time was 0.37 (95% CI: 0.18, 0.77). These findings indicate that dietary magnesium intake is inadequate among non-diabetic individuals with MetS and suggest that increasing dietary magnesium to meet the RDA has a protective effect on insulin resistance.

UI  - 24083804
TI  - Rationale and design of a randomized trial on the impact of aldosterone antagonism on cardiac structure and function in diabetic cardiomyopathy.
AB  - ACTRN12610001063000.

UI  - 24082018
TI  - Influence of retirement on nonadherence to medication for hypertension and diabetes.
AB  - We found a decline in adherence to medication after retirement among men and women with hypertension and men with type 2 diabetes. If these findings can be confirmed, we need randomized controlled trials to determine whether interventions to reduce poor adherence after retirement could improve clinical outcomes of treatments for hypertension and diabetes.

UI  - 24080858
TI  - Nerve fiber layer thickness in eyes treated with red versus green laser in proliferative diabetic retinopathy: short-term results.
AB  - Though RNFL thickness was increased significantly 6 weeks after PRP with red and green laser in comparison to baseline, there was no significant difference in RNFL thickness between red and green laser groups.

UI  - 24080704
TI  - Subclinical macular edema as a predictor of progression to clinically significant macular edema in type 2 diabetes.
AB  - Subclinical DME in eyes with NPDR identified by center point thickness measured on a Stratus OCT is a good predictor of CSME development.

UI  - 24080100
TI  - Design features of the Diabetes and Periodontal Therapy Trial (DPTT): a multicenter randomized single-masked clinical trial testing the effect of nonsurgical periodontal therapy on glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c) levels in subjects with type 2 diabetes and chronic periodontitis.
AB  - Dental and medical researchers collaborated to recruit, treat and monitor participants with two chronic diseases to determine if treatment of one condition affects the status of the other.

UI  - 24079842
TI  - Economic evaluation of continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion for children with diabetes - a pilot study: CSII application for children - economic evaluation.
AB  - Continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion appears to be more cost-effective for the Bulgarian pediatric population and health care system.

UI  - 24079645
TI  - Comparison of the hypoglycemic effect of sitagliptin versus the combination of mitiglinide and voglibose in drug-nave Japanese patients with type 2 diabetes.
AB  - M+V achieved better control of PPG excursion than S.

UI  - 24078913
TI  - Time course of improvement of metabolic parameters after a 12 week physical exercise programme in patients with type 2 diabetes: the influence of gender in a Nigerian population.
AB  - Gender is a major determinant of the outcomes of many health interventions. This study documents the order of significant improvements in metabolic parameters of patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) having metabolic syndrome within 12 weeks of physical exercise programmes. Twenty-nine patients, mean age 49.6  3.7 years, presenting with high fasting plasma glucose, high triglycerides, hypertension, and high waist circumference undertook a thrice weekly aerobic and endurance exercise programme in addition to their drugs and diet. Variables were assessed at baseline and end of every two weeks for twelve weeks. Compared with baseline, significant improvement (P < 0.05) in the metabolic parameters occurred in this order for the male participants: fasting glucose (2nd week), triglycerides and waist circumference (4th week), and systolic blood pressure (12th week). For the female participants, it was fasting glucose (4th week), triglycerides (6th week), and waist circumference (10th week). Regardless of the gender, fasting glucose was the first to improve significantly, followed by triglycerides. Hypertension did not improve significantly at all in the female participants as they may require more than twelve weeks of therapeutic exercise for any significant improvement in hypertension.

UI  - 24078364
TI  - Cultural competence education for practicing physicians: lessons in cultural humility, nonjudgmental behaviors, and health beliefs elicitation.
AB  - A predominantly skills-based approach to training physicians did not change aggregate measures of cultural competence, but did affect key attitudes and behaviors, which may better reflect the goals of cultural competence training.

UI  - 24076594
TI  - Serum IL-18 and hsCRP correlate with insulin resistance without effect of calcitriol treatment on type 2 diabetes.
AB  - Inflammation was associated with insulin resistance in diabetic patients. No anti-inflammatory effect of Calcitriol in terms of decreasing hsCRP, IL-6 and IL-18 detected.

UI  - 24076532
TI  - Left atrial volume index: relation to long-term clinical outcome in type 2 diabetes.
AB  - Increased LAVi was an independent and incremental predictor of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in T2DM patients with no history of CVD. (Presence of Macrovascular Disease in Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus; NCT00298844).

UI  - 24076487
TI  - The effect of dabigatran plasma concentrations and patient characteristics on the frequency of ischemic stroke and major bleeding in atrial fibrillation patients: the RE-LY Trial (Randomized Evaluation of Long-Term Anticoagulation Therapy).
AB  - Ischemic stroke and bleeding outcomes were correlated with dabigatran plasma concentrations. Age was the most important covariate. Individual benefit-risk might be improved by tailoring dabigatran dose after considering selected patient characteristics. (Randomized Evaluation of Long Term Anticoagulant Therapy [RE-LY] With Dabigatran Etexilate; NCT00262600).

UI  - 24076297
TI  - Short-term rosuvastatin therapy for prevention of contrast-induced acute kidney injury in patients with diabetes and chronic kidney disease.
AB  - Rosuvastatin significantly reduced the risk of CI-AKI in patients with DM and CKD undergoing arterial contrast medium injection. (Rosuvastatin Prevent Contrast Induced Acute Kidney Injury in Patients With Diabetes [TRACK-D]; NCT00786136).

UI  - 24075453
TI  - Impact of interleukin-1 antibody (canakinumab) on glycaemic indicators in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus: results of secondary endpoints from a randomized, placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - Registry: http://www.ClinicalTrials.gov, Registration No.: NCT00900146.

UI  - 24075427
TI  - The effect of enoxaparin-containing irrigation fluid used during cataract surgery on postoperative inflammation in patients with diabetes.
AB  - The results of the study suggest that enoxaparin added into the infusion fluid may reduce postoperative inflammation in patients with DM, and this result supports the anti-inflammatory effect of enoxaparin.

UI  - 24074614
TI  - Role of sclerostin in the bone loss of postmenopausal chinese women with type 2 diabetes.
AB  - Sclerostin might participate in the pathogenesis of bone loss of type 2 diabetes. The high sclerostin level might serve as a marker of increased osteocyte activity in postmenopausal patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus.

UI  - 24072752
TI  - A prospective study of risk factors for foot ulceration: the West of Ireland Diabetes Foot Study.
AB  - Our data show the extent of foot complications in a representative sample of diabetes patients in Ireland. Use of eGFR did not improve identification of patients at risk of foot ulceration.

UI  - 24072366
TI  - Low long-term risk of foot ulcer recurrence after nerve decompression in a diabetes neuropathy cohort.
AB  - The prospective, objective, statistically significant finding of a large, long-term diminution of diabetic foot ulcer recurrence risk after operative nerve decompression compares very favorably with the historical literature and the contralateral legs of this cohort, which had no decompression. This finding invites prospective randomized controlled studies for validation testing and reconsideration of the frequency and contribution of unrecognized nerve entrapments in diabetic sensorimotor polyneuropathy and diabetic foot complications.

UI  - 24070181
TI  - Implementation of national guidelines, incorporated within structured diabetes and hypertension records at primary level care in Cape Town, South Africa: a randomised controlled trial.
AB  - No benefit to diabetes of hypertension care by introducing and availability of the staff in the use of the SR was shown in this RCT. The process measures suggest that the SR was not widely used by the healthcare provided in the primary care clinics.

UI  - 24067797
TI  - Eicosapentaenoic acid improves glycemic control in elderly bedridden patients with type 2 diabetes.
AB  - Eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) are 3-polyunsaturated fatty acids mainly contained in the blue-backed fish oil, and are effective in decreasing the lipids disorder and the cardiovascular incidence among diabetic patients. Moreover, it has been suggested that EPA and DHA may improve the insulin resistance and glucose metabolism. However, the clinical effects of EPA and DHA on glucose metabolism remain unclear. We aimed to clarify the effects of EPA/DHA treatment on glycemic control in type 2 diabetes mellitus. This study was a multicenter prospective randomized controlled trial involving 30 elderly type 2 diabetic patients on a liquid diet. Their exercises were almost zero and the content of their meals was strictly managed and understood well. Therefore, the difference by the individual's life was a minimum. The subjects were divided into two groups: those receiving EPA/DHA-rich liquid diet [EPA/DHA (+)] or liquid diet lacking EPA/DHA [EPA/DHA (-)]. Changes in factors related to glucose and lipid metabolism were assessed after the three-month study. Serum concentrations of EPA rose in EPA/DHA (+), although the levels of DHA and fasting C-peptide remained unchanged in EPA/DHA (+). In addition, there was a significant decline in the fasting plasma glucose (FPG), hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c), fasting remnant-like particles and apolipoprotein (apo) B in EPA/DHA (+), compared with the values in EPA/DHA (-). EPA/DHA-rich diet might improve glucose metabolism in elderly type 2 diabetic patients on a liquid diet. This phenomenon may be due to the improved insulin resistance mediated by the rise in serum EPA concentrations.

UI  - 24065375
TI  - Predictors of high platelet reactivity during aspirin treatment in patients with type 2 diabetes.
AB  - 1. Patients with DM2 are characterised by large variability of platelet reactivity, with little agreement between various methods. 2. Smoking, chronic heart failure, and subclinical inflammation may be associated with high platelet reactivity in patients with DM2 treated with ASA.

UI  - 24065152
TI  - Start of insulin therapy in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus promotes the influx of macrophages into subcutaneous adipose tissue.
AB  - The study was funded by European Foundation for the Study of Diabetes and the Dutch Diabetes Research Foundation.

UI  - 24065010
TI  - Effect of sensor-augmented insulin pump therapy and automated insulin suspension vs standard insulin pump therapy on hypoglycemia in patients with type 1 diabetes: a randomized clinical trial.
AB  - anzctr.org.au Identifier: ACTRN12610000024044.

UI  - 24064677
TI  - The glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonist, liraglutide, attenuates the progression of overt diabetic nephropathy in type 2 diabetic patients.
AB  - Diabetic nephropathy (DN) is the leading cause of end-stage renal disease. Glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) is one of the incretins, gut hormones released from the intestine in response to food intake. GLP-1 receptor (GLP-1R) agonists have been used to treat type 2 diabetes. Here, we studied the effect of the administration of a GLP-1R agonist, liraglutide, on proteinuria and the progression of overt DN in type 2 diabetic patients. Twenty-three type 2 diabetic patients with overt DN, who had already been treated with blockade of renin-angiotensin system under dietary sodium restriction, were given liraglutide for a period of 12 months. Treatment with liraglutide caused a significant decrease in HbA1c from 7.4  0.2% to 6.9  0.3% (p = 0.04), and in body mass index (BMI) from 27.6  0.9 kg/m to 26.5  0.8 kg/m after 12 months (p < 0.001), while systolic blood pressure did not change. The progression of DN was determined as the rate of decline in estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR). The 12-month administration of liraglutide caused a significant decrease in proteinuria from 2.53  0.48 g/g creatinine to 1.47  0.28 g/g creatinine (p = 0.002). The administration of liraglutide also substantially diminished the rate of decline in eGFR from 6.6  1.5 mL/min/1.73 m/year to 0.3  1.9 mL/min/1.73 m/year (p = 0.003). Liraglutide can be used not only for reducing HbA1c and BMI, but also for attenuating the progression of nephropathy in type 2 diabetic patients.

UI  - 24064339
TI  - Insulin sensitivity and metabolic flexibility following exercise training among different obese insulin-resistant phenotypes.
AB  - Impaired fasting glucose (IFG) blunts the reversal of impaired glucose tolerance (IGT) after exercise training. Metabolic inflexibility has been implicated in the etiology of insulin resistance; however, the efficacy of exercise on peripheral and hepatic insulin sensitivity or substrate utilization in adults with IFG, IGT, or IFG + IGT is unknown. Twenty-four older (66.7  0.8 yr) obese (34.2  0.9 kg/m(2)) adults were categorized as IFG (n = 8), IGT (n = 8), or IFG + IGT (n = 8) according to a 75-g oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT). Subjects underwent 12-wk of exercise (60 min/day for 5 days/wk at 85% HRmax) and were instructed to maintain a eucaloric diet. A euglycemic hyperinsulinemic clamp (40 mUm(2)min(-1)) with [6,6-(2)H]glucose was used to determine peripheral and hepatic insulin sensitivity. Nonoxidative glucose disposal and metabolic flexibility [insulin-stimulated respiratory quotient (RQ) minus fasting RQ] were also assessed. Glucose incremental area under the curve (iAUCOGTT) was calculated from the OGTT. Exercise increased clamp-derived peripheral and hepatic insulin sensitivity more in adults with IFG or IGT alone than with IFG + IGT (P < 0.05). Exercise reduced glucose iAUCOGTT in IGT only (P < 0.05), and the decrease in glucose iAUCOGTT was inversely correlated with the increase in peripheral but not hepatic insulin sensitivity (P < 0.01). Increased clamp-derived peripheral insulin sensitivity was also correlated with enhanced metabolic flexibility, reduced fasting RQ, and higher nonoxidative glucose disposal (P < 0.05). Adults with IFG + IGT had smaller gains in clamp-derived peripheral insulin sensitivity and metabolic flexibility, which was related to blunted improvements in postprandial glucose. Additional work is required to assess the molecular mechanism(s) by which chronic hyperglycemia modifies insulin sensitivity following exercise training.

UI  - 24063842
TI  - Comparison of predictors of heart failure-related hospitalization or death in patients with versus without preserved left ventricular ejection fraction.
AB  - Heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF) is recognized as a major cause of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. An ability to identify patients with HFpEF who are at increased risk for adverse outcomes can facilitate their more careful management. We studied the patients having heart failure (HF) using data from the Heart Failure Adherence and Retention Trial (HART). HART enrolled 902 patients in the New York Heart Association (NYHA) class II or III who had been recently hospitalized for HF to study the impact of self-management counseling on the primary outcome of death or HF hospitalization. In HART, 208 patients had HFpEF and 692 had HF with reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF) and were followed for a median of 1,080days. Two final multivariate models were developed. In patients having HFpEF, predictors of primary outcome were male gender (odds ratio [OR] 3.45, p= 0.004), NYHA class III (OR 3.05, p= 0.008), distance covered on a 6-minute walk test (6-MWT) of <620 feet (OR 2.81, p= 0.013), and <80% adherence to prescribed medications (OR 2.61, p= 0.018). In patients having HFrEF, the predictors were being on diuretics (OR 3.06, p= 0.001), having 3 co-morbidities (OR 2.11, p= 0.0001), distance covered on a 6-MWT of <620 feet (OR 1.94, p= 0.001), NYHA class III (OR 1.90, p= 0.001), and age >65years (OR 1.63, p= 0.01). In conclusion, indicators of functional status (6-MWT and NYHA class) were common to both patients with HFpEF and those with HFrEF, whereas gender and adherence to prescribed therapy were unique to patients having HFpEF in predicting death or HF hospitalization.

UI  - 24063840
TI  - Comparison of Zotarolimus-Eluting stent versus Sirolimus-Eluting stent for de novo coronary artery disease in patients with diabetes mellitus from the ESSENCE-DIABETES II trial.
AB  - Angiographic and clinical outcomes remain relatively unfavorable for diabetic patients even after the use of drug-eluting stent. This prospective, multicenter, randomized study compared the relative efficacy and safety of resolute zotarolimus-eluting stent (R-ZES) and sirolimus-eluting stent (SES) implantation in diabetic patients with coronary artery disease. The primary end point was noninferiority of angiographic in-segment late loss at 9 months. Clinical events were also monitored for at least 12 months. Patient recruitment was prematurely stopped after enrollment of 256 patients (127 in R-ZES group and 129 in SES) because of discontinuing production of SES. The R-ZES was noninferior to the SES for 9-month in-segment late loss (0.34  0.30 vs 0.39  0.43 mm; difference -0.048; 95% confidence interval -0.157 to 0.061; upper 1-sided 95% confidence interval 0.044; p <0.001 for noninferiority). In addition, in-stent late loss (0.22  0.29 vs 0.21  0.40 mm, p = 0.849) and the rates of in-segment (1.2% vs 6.7%, p = 0.119) and in-stent (1.2% vs 3.3%, p = 0.621) binary restenoses were similar between the 2 groups. At 12 months, there were no statistical differences between the 2 groups in the incidence of any clinical outcomes (death, myocardial infarction, stent thrombosis, ischemia-driven target lesion revascularization, ischemia-driven target vessel revascularization, and composite outcomes). In conclusion, despite having reduced power because of early study termination, our study suggests that the R-ZES has noninferior angiographic outcomes at 9 months to the SES in diabetic patients with coronary artery disease.

UI  - 24063835
TI  - Comparison of dual versus triple antiplatelet therapy after drug-eluting stent according to stent length (from the pooled analysis of DECLARE trials).
AB  - There are no practical criteria for the use of triple antiplatelet therapy after drug-eluting stent (DES) implantation. In our present report, pooled analysis of 3 randomized studies in patients with diabetes mellitus (Drug-Eluting Stenting Followed by Cilostazol treatment reduces LAte Restenosis in patients with diabetes mellitus trial) and long coronary narrowings (Drug-Eluting Stenting Followed by Cilostazol Treatment Reduces Late Restenosis in Patients with Long Coronary Lesions trials I and II) compared triple (aspirin, clopidogrel, and cilostazol; triple group, n= 700) and dual antiplatelet therapies (aspirin and clopidogrel; dual group, n= 699) after DES implantation. Among pooled population (n= 1,399 patients), 1,173 patients with follow-up angiography were divided into 3 stent length categories (20, 20 to 40, and >40mm). There was no statistical significance of in-stent restenosis (ISR) in 20- and 20- to 40-mm categories between 2 groups. However, ISR rate was significantly reduced in triple versus dual group in >40-mm stent length category (12.4% vs 22.1%, p= 0.008). In diabetic patients, triple group also showed significant reduction in the ISR rate in >40-mm stent length category (15.4% vs 32.3%, p= 0.003). According to postprocedural minimal lumen diameter, triple group showed a trend toward a lower ISR than that of the dual group in all categories (p= 0.033 for 2.5mm, p= 0.087 for 2.5 to 3.0mm, and p= 0.119 for >3.0mm). In conclusion, the triple group had a significantly reduced ISR in patients with >40-mm stent length after DES implantation compared with the dual group. Therefore, this suggestion for use of triple antiplatelet therapy could be easily applied after DES implantation in routine clinical practice.

UI  - 24061995
TI  - [Perioperative nutrition support for esophageal cancer complicated with diabetes mellitus].
AB  - Perioperative nutrition support can effectively control blood glucose and improve perioperative nutritional status simultaneously for esophageal cancer patients with diabetes mellitus. Compared with parenteral nutrition, enteral nutrition can accelerate the recovery of gastric bowel function and reduce the cost of nutritional support.

UI  - 24060320
TI  - Clinical features of patients inappropriately undiagnosed of pulmonary embolism.
AB  - Delay in diagnosis of acute PE is frequent despite current diagnostic strategies. Patients are sent home or admitted to hospital with a wrong diagnosis depending on clinical presentation or coexisting medical conditions.

UI  - 24060300
TI  - [Intravitreal triamcinolone combined with grid laser photocoagulation for patients with cystoid macular edema and advanced diabetic retinopathy: pilot study].
AB  - Although all of our patients showed an improvement of cystoid DME by means of OCT and fluorescein angiography, 42.8% (6 eyes) lost 2 or more lines in BCVA with primary intravitreal injection of TA plus GLP. Primary intravitreal injection of TA plus GLP may not be effective for cystoid DME at 12-months.

UI  - 24058443
TI  - An absolute risk model to identify individuals at elevated risk for pancreatic cancer in the general population.
AB  - Although absolute risk modeling using established risk factors may help to identify a group of individuals at higher than average risk of pancreatic cancer, the immediate clinical utility of our model is limited. However, a risk model can increase awareness of the various risk factors for pancreatic cancer, including modifiable behaviors.

UI  - 24057510
TI  - Urinary n-acetyl-beta-d-glucosaminidase excretion: an indicator of neuropathy in type 2 diabetes.
AB  - The established marker for tubular damage, urinary n-acetyl-beta-d-glucosaminidase is significantly increased in type 1 and 2 diabetes patients and is related to albuminuria and other diabetic complications. In this cross sectional study of type 2 diabetes patients with a history of albuminuria, we studied the relationship between excretion of n-acetyl-beta-d-glucosaminidase in urine and diabetic neuropathy.160 type 2 diabetes patients were screened for diabetic peripheral neuropathy and cardiovascular autonomic neuropathy. N-acetyl-beta-d-glucosaminidase excretion was detected in 24 h urine samples.Urinary excretion of n-acetyl-beta-d-glucosaminidase correlated significantly with -glucose control (fasting glucose r=0.18; p=0.04; HbA1c r=0.20; p=0.02) and urine albumin excretion (r=0.22; p=0.01). Binary regression analyses showed that increased urinary n-acetyl-beta-d-glucosaminidase concentration is an independent predictor for presence of clinical symptoms of peripheral neuropathy (OR 1.8 [95%CI 1.2-2.74] and vibration deficiency [OR 1.7; 95% CI 1.2-2.66]. There was also a significant negative association between urinary n-acetyl-beta-d-glucosaminidase and E/I-Ratio (r=-0.21, p<0.02) as well as the 30:15-Ratio (r=-0.24; p<0.01) of heart rate variability. Furthermore, increased n-acetyl-beta-d-glucosaminidase excretion independently predicted cardiovascular autonomic diabetic neuropathy with an OR for decreased E/I-Ratio of 1.7 [95%CI 1.1-2.75]; (p<0.02) and 30:15-Ratio:OR 2.4 [95% CI 1.26-4.45]; (p<0.01).Urinary n-acetyl-beta-d-glucosami-nidase excretion is an independent marker for diabetic peripheral and cardiovascular autonomic neuropathy in type 2 diabetic patients.

UI  - 24057294
TI  - Effects of pioglitazone on bone in postmenopausal women with impaired fasting glucose or impaired glucose tolerance: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study.
AB  - Maximal-dose pioglitazone had no effects on BMD or bone turnover, while improving glycemic control as expected, in postmenopausal women with impaired fasting glucose or impaired glucose tolerance.

UI  - 24057153
TI  - Insulin degludec is not associated with a delayed or diminished response to hypoglycaemia compared with insulin glargine in type 1 diabetes: a double-blind randomised crossover study.
AB  - Novo Nordisk.

UI  - 24057136
TI  - Catalase activity, allelic variations in the catalase gene and risk of kidney complications in patients with type 1 diabetes.
AB  - CAT variants were associated with the prevalence and incidence of diabetic nephropathy and ESRD in type 1 diabetic patients. Our results confirm the protective role of catalase against oxidative stress in the kidney.

UI  - 24056618
TI  - Alemtuzumab induction in renal transplantation permits safe steroid avoidance with tacrolimus monotherapy: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Renal transplantation with alemtuzumab induction followed by tacrolimus monotherapy leads to good graft and patient outcomes, with no major differences detected compared with basiliximab induction and tacrolimus/MMF maintenance at 1 year.

UI  - 24054890
TI  - Fractional volume of placental vessels in women with diabetes using a novel stereological 3D power Doppler technique.
AB  - Using a novel stereological-based ultrasound technique we have demonstrated the reliability of this application in the placenta. This technique shows promise for non-invasive assessment of placental function: further studies are required to identify if structural changes in a diabetic placenta are accompanied by altered function, manifest as reduced perfusion demonstrable in-vivo.

UI  - 24053906
TI  - Association of diabetes mellitus and metformin use with oncological outcomes of patients with non-muscle-invasive bladder cancer.
AB  - Patients with DM and NMIBC who do not take metformin seem to be at an increased risk of disease recurrence and progression; metformin use seems to exert a protective effect with regard to disease recurrence. The mechanisms behind the impact of DM on patients with NMIBC and the potential protective effect of metformin need further elucidation.

UI  - 24053480
TI  - Efficacy of combination of Ezetimibe 10 mg and rosuvastatin 2.5 mg versus rosuvastatin 5 mg monotherapy for hypercholesterolemia in patients with type 2 diabetes.
AB  - UMIN000011005.

UI  - 24053450
TI  - Biphasic insulin aspart 30 in insulin-naive people with type 2 diabetes in non-western nations: results from a regional comparative multinational observational study (A(1)chieve).
AB  - Insulin-naive people with T2DM beginning aspart premix insulin in routine clinical practice in non-western nations had clinically useful improvements in blood glucose control after 24 weeks in all seven regions. Improvements from baseline for glucose control variables were greater than cross-regional differences in those variables at 24 weeks.

UI  - 24053053
TI  - Psychometric properties of a prediabetes instrument to assess perceived susceptibility and perceived severity in Appalachians.
AB  - This prediabetes screening instrument provides a strong foundation for measuring perceived susceptibility and perceived severity in Appalachian individuals who have prediabetes.

UI  - 24052680
TI  - The cost of type 1 diabetes: a nationwide multicentre study in Brazil.
AB  - Health technologies accounted for most direct medical costs of T1DM. These data can serve to reassess the distribution of resources for managing T1DM in Brazil's public health-care system.

UI  - 24052204
TI  - Implementation of a culturally tailored diabetes intervention with community health workers in American Samoa.
AB  - A nurse-CHW team can deliver a culturally adapted diabetes self-management support intervention with excellent fidelity to the algorithm-based protocols. The team accommodated participants' needs by meeting them whenever and wherever they could. This study provides an example of adaptation of an evidence-based model to the Samoan cultural context and its resource-poor setting.

UI  - 24052203
TI  - Effectiveness of a community health worker-led diabetes self-management education program and implications for CHW involvement in care coordination strategies.
AB  - CHWs play a variety of roles in helping patients overcome barriers to diabetes control and can be successfully integrated into a health care system's care coordination strategy.

UI  - 24051686
TI  - Residual -cell mass influences growth of prepubertal children with type 1 diabetes.
AB  - Despite insulin intensive therapy, T1D still negatively affects growth. Residual -cell mass has a direct positive impact on growth, independently from the quality of glycemic control.

UI  - 24050942
TI  - Adherence and renal biopsy feasibility in the Renin Angiotensin-System Study (RASS) primary prevention diabetes trial.
AB  - T1DM patients without nephropathy were willing to take experimental medications and undergo repeat renal biopsies. Although overall adherence was excellent, patterns of adherence varied among participants, suggesting the need to better track adherence and to develop customized and targeted approaches for promoting adherence to clinical research regimens. Staff subjective predictions of adherence were imprecise, supporting need for further development of adherence predictors.

UI  - 24050737
TI  - A comparative study of the effects of a dipeptidyl peptidase-IV inhibitor and sulfonylurea on glucose variability in patients with type 2 diabetes with inadequate glycemic control on metformin.
AB  - When sitagliptin was combined with metformin, the patients showed much more efficient blood glucose controlling effects, not only the three indexes of fasting blood glucose, postprandial blood glucose, and glycated hemoglobin, but also MAGE.

UI  - 24050578
TI  - Capparis spinosa L. (Caper) fruit extract in treatment of type 2 diabetic patients: a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled clinical trial.
AB  - Caper fruit extract may be a safe anti-hyperglycemic and anti-hypertriglyceridemic agent for type 2 diabetic patients.

UI  - 24050577
TI  - Improved glycemic control and lipid profile in hyperlipidemic type 2 diabetic patients consuming Salvia officinalis L. leaf extract: a randomized placebo. Controlled clinical trial.
AB  - S. officinalis leaves may be safe and have anti-hyperglycemic and lipid profile improving effects in hyperlipidemic type 2 diabetic patients.

UI  - 24049023
TI  - Is mean platelet volume associated with the angiographic severity of coronary artery disease?
AB  - We determined a positive correlation between MPV and Gensini and SYNTAX scores. Therefore, this simple haematology test can be used in determining cardiovascular disease burden besides other risk factors during routine clinical practice. For further information about this topic, large-scale studies are needed.

UI  - 24048296
TI  - Effectiveness of general practice based, practice nurse led telephone coaching on glycaemic control of type 2 diabetes: the Patient Engagement and Coaching for Health (PEACH) pragmatic cluster randomised controlled trial.
AB  - Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN50662837.

UI  - 24047926
TI  - Diabetes self-management and leptin in Mexican Americans with type 2 diabetes: the Starr County border health initiative.
AB  - With increasing obesity rates, further research is warranted to determine if leptin is a useful intervention target in type 2 diabetes.

UI  - 24047312
TI  - Association of chronic kidney disease (CKD) and failure to monitor renal function with adverse outcomes in people with diabetes: a primary care cohort study.
AB  - Proteinuria, eGFR< 60 ml/min, and failure to monitor renal function are associated with cardiovascular and renal events and mortality in people with diabetes.

UI  - 24045867
TI  - Pancreatic -cell function increases in a linear dose-response manner following exercise training in adults with prediabetes.
AB  - Although some studies suggest that a linear dose-response relationship exists between exercise and insulin sensitivity, the exercise dose required to enhance pancreatic -cell function is unknown. Thirty-five older obese adults with prediabetes underwent a progressive 12-wk supervised exercise intervention (5 days/wk for 60 min at ~85% HRmax). Insulin and C-peptide responses to an OGTT were used to define the first- and second-phase disposition index (DI; -cell function = glucose-stimulated insulin secretion  clamp-derived insulin sensitivity). Maximum oxygen consumption (Vo2max) and body composition (dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry and computed tomography) were also measured before and after the intervention. Exercise dose was computed using Vo2/heart-rate derived linear regression equations. Subjects expended 474.5  8.8 kcal/session (2,372.5  44.1 kcal/wk) during the intervention and lost ~8% body weight. Exercise increased first- and second-phase DI (P < 0.05), and these changes in DI were linearly related to exercise dose (DIfirst phase: r = 0.54, P < 0.001; DIsecond phase: r = 0.56, P = 0.0005). Enhanced DI was also associated with increased Vo2max (DIfirst phase: r = 0.36, P = 0.04; DIsecond phase: r = 0.41, P < 0.02) but not lower body fat (DIfirst phase: r = -0.21, P = 0.25; DIsecond phase: r = -0.30, P = 0.10) after training. Low baseline DI predicted an increase in DI after the intervention (DIfirst phase: r = -0.37; DIsecond phase: r = -0.41, each P < 0.04). Thus, exercise training plus weight loss increased pancreatic -cell function in a linear dose-response manner in adults with prediabetes. Our data suggest that higher exercise doses (i.e., >2,000 kcal/wk) are necessary to enhance -cell function in adults with poor insulin secretion capacity.

UI  - 24045333
TI  - Analysis of behavior risk factor surveillance system data to assess the health of Hispanics with diabetes in US-Mexico border communities.
AB  - Improvement of diabetes management among this population should focus on border health system barriers to attaining HP 2020 diabetes target goals.

UI  - 24043256
TI  - Impact of sex on the heart's metabolic and functional responses to diabetic therapies.
AB  - Increased myocardial lipid delivery is a determinant of myocardial substrate metabolism and function in animal models of type 2 diabetes (T2DM). Sex also has major effects on myocardial metabolism in the human heart. Our aims were to determine whether 1) sex affects the myocardial metabolic response to lipid lowering in T2DM, 2) altering lipid [fatty acid (FA) or triglyceride] delivery to the heart would lower the elevated myocardial lipid metabolism associated with T2DM, and 3) decreasing lipid delivery improves diastolic dysfunction in T2DM. To this end, we studied 78 T2DM patients (43 women) with positron emission tomography, echocardiography, and whole body tracer studies before and 3 mo after randomization to metformin (MET), metformin + rosiglitazone (ROSI), or metformin + Lovaza (LOV). No treatment main effects were found for myocardial substrate metabolism, partly because men and women often had different responses to a given treatment. In men, MET decreased FA clearance, which was linked to increased plasma FA levels, myocardial FA utilization and oxidation, and lower myocardial glucose utilization. In women, ROSI increased FA clearance, thereby decreasing plasma FA levels and myocardial FA utilization. Although LOV did not change triglyceride levels, it improved diastolic function, particularly in men. Group and sex also interacted in determining myocardial glucose uptake. Thus, in T2DM, different therapeutic regimens impact myocardial metabolism and diastolic function in a sex-specific manner. This suggests that sex should be taken into account when designing a patient's diabetes treatment.

UI  - 24042256
TI  - Effect of low-dose aspirin on primary prevention of cardiovascular events in Japanese diabetic patients at high risk.
AB  - Low-dose aspirin is not beneficial in Japanese diabetic patients at high risk.

UI  - 24021603
TI  - Influence of a specific, biorhythmically defined physical stimulus on deficient vasomotion in small-caliber arterioles in the subcutis in patients with diabetic polyneuropathy.
AB  - As part of a placebo-controlled study series on a random sample of patients with diabetic polyneuropathy and trophic skin lesions on the edge of the foot, functional characteristics of the local microcirculation and immune system were measured to check the complementary-therapy success of biorhythmically defined vasomotion stimulation. Over a 30-day treatment period, complementary-therapy success was demonstrated for an additional physical vasomotion stimulation to increase the therapeutic success of established treatment concepts.

UI  - 24007452
TI  - Mobile health (mHealth) based medication adherence measurement - a pilot trial using electronic blisters in diabetes patients.
AB  - The results indicate that mHealth based adherence management is feasible and well accepted by patients with increased cardiovascular risk. It may help to increase adherence, even in patients with high baseline adherence and, subsequently, lead to improved control of indicators including blood pressure and cholesterol concentrations. Electronic blisters can be used in a multi-medication regimen but need to be carefully designed for day-to-day application.

UI  - 24038858
TI  - Should diabetic ketosis without acidosis be included in ketosis-prone type 2 diabetes mellitus?
AB  - Diabetic ketosis without acidosis and DKA patients share similar clinical characteristics; DKWA should be considered ketosis-prone type 2 diabetes. Therefore, the prevalence of ketosis-prone type 2 diabetes might be underestimated.

UI  - 24035281
TI  - Evaluation of performance of A1c and FPG tests for screening newly diagnosed diabetes defined by an OGTT among tuberculosis patients-a study from India.
AB  - HbA1c performed better than FPG as a screening tool for newly diagnosed diabetes among subjects with TB.

UI  - 24035165
TI  - Effects of valsartan versus amlodipine in diabetic hypertensive patients with or without previous cardiovascular disease.
AB  - Recently, we reported that angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB), valsartan, and calcium channel blocker (CCB), amlodipine, had similar effects on the prevention of cardiovascular disease (CVD) events in diabetic hypertensive patients. We assessed the difference of cardiovascular protective effects between ARB and CCB in patients with and without previous CVD, respectively. A total of 1,150 Japanese diabetic hypertensive patients were randomized to either valsartan or amlodipine treatment arms, which were additionally divided into 2 groups according to the presence of previous CVD at baseline (without CVD, n= 818; with CVD, n= 332). The primary composite outcomes were sudden cardiac death, acute myocardial infarction, stroke, coronary revascularization, or hospitalization for heart failure. The incidence of primary end point events in patients with previous CVD was 3.5-times greater than that in patients without previous CVD (64.1 vs 17.9/1,000 person-years). The ARB- and the CCB-based treatment arms showed similar incidence of composite CVD events in both patients without previous CVD (hazard ratio [HR] 1.35, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.76 to 2.40) and those with previous CVD (HR 0.79, 95% CI 0.48 to 1.31). The ARB-treatment arm showed less incidence of stroke compared with the CCB-based treatment arm in patients with previous CVD (HR 0.24, 95% CI 0.05 to 1.11, p= 0.068), whereas the 2 treatment arms showed similar incidence of stroke in patients without previous CVD (HR 1.52, 95% CI 0.59 to 3.91). In conclusion, the ARB- and the CCB-based treatments exerted similar protective effects of CVD events regardless of the presence of previous CVD. For stroke events, the ARB may have more protective effects than the CCB in diabetic hypertensive patients with previous CVD.

UI  - 24034905
TI  - Worse limb prognosis for indirect versus direct endovascular revascularization only in patients with critical limb ischemia complicated with wound infection and diabetes mellitus.
AB  - Limb prognosis was equivalent for direct and indirect endovascular revascularization except in the presence of both diabetes and wound infection, when indirect revascularization has a poorer outcome.

UI  - 24032741
TI  - A randomized controlled trial of third-trimester routine ultrasound in a non-selected population.
AB  - Routine use of third-trimester routine ultrasound increased detection rates of small-for-gestational-age and large-for-gestational-age fetuses. This did not alter perinatal outcomes. Third-trimester ultrasound screening should not be rejected before a policy of adding Doppler surveillance to the high-risk group identified has been investigated further.

UI  - 24030946
TI  - Effects of pioglitazone on visceral fat metabolic activity in impaired glucose tolerance or type 2 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - Our study indicated that pioglitazone decreased the visceral fat volume and its metabolic activity in patients with impaired glucose tolerance or type 2 diabetes mellitus. The beneficial effects of pioglitazone on visceral fat may be independent of its glucose-lowering effect.

UI  - 24026991
TI  - Evaluation of low level laser therapy in reducing diabetic polyneuropathy related pain and sensorimotor disorders.
AB  - Over the past three decades physicians have used light level laser therapy (LLLT) for the management and the treatment of diabetic peripheral neuropathy and have obtained results that calls for further investigations. This study aimed to investigate the effectiveness of LLLT in treatment of pain symptoms in patients with diabetic polyneuropathy. In this study 60 patients with diabetic peripheral neuropathy were matched based on their sex, age, BMI, type of diabetes, duration of diabetes, and duration of pain, and randomized to case and control groups based on their established scores on the visual analog scale (VAS) and the Toronto clinical scoring system (TCSS). Cases received laser therapy with wavelength of 78 nm and 2.5 j/cm2 two times a week, each time for 5 min, for one month. During the same period, controls received sham laser therapy. Comparing the differences between the two groups' VAS and TCSS mean scores before the intervention with that of the 2 weeks and 4 weeks after the intervention we were able to see a statistically significant difference between the two groups (P&lt;0.05). On the other hand, when we compared their VAS and TCSS mean scores 4 weeks and 2 weeks after the intervention we did not find any statistically significant difference between the two groups. We achieved the same results when we examined cases' and controls' pre and post VAS and TCSS scores independent from each other; no improvement in the assessment based on their 2 and 4 weeks comparisons tests. Laser therapy resulted in improved neuropathy outcomes in diabetic patients who received it relative to the group that received sham therapy, evaluating before and after LLLT assessments. Further studies are needed to test types of lasers, as well as different dosage and exposure levels required in different phase of neuropathic care, so as to obtain reproducible results.

UI  - 24026829
TI  - Endurance exercise alters cellular immune status and resistin concentrations in men suffering from non-insulin-dependent type 2 diabetes.
AB  - It has been demonstrated that alterations of adipocytokines can alter immune status in type 2 diabetes. The present study investigated changes of adipocytokine plasma concentrations and cellular immune status in overweight men, suffering from non-insulin dependent type 2 diabetes (n=14, age 61.08.7 years, BMI 31.13.5 kg/cm2). Subjects underwent a 3 months endurance exercise intervention (twice per week for up to 45 min) cycling at a heart rate corresponding to a 2 mmol/l lactate threshold. Before and after the intervention testing for adipocytokines (leptin, adiponectin, resistin) and cellular immune status (including T memory-cells and regulative T-cells) was performed by RIA and FACS accordingly.The exercise intervention improved anthropometric and metabolic parameters of all subjects. We observed a significant decline for resistin and for the CD19+ B-cells. The CD4+CD25+CD127low Treg-cells decreased, however not statistically significant. All other parameters remained unchanged.In conclusion, even though only training twice a week, the exercise affected parts of the cellular immune system as well as resistin levels in men suffering from non-insulin dependent type 2 diabetes.

UI  - 24026211
TI  - Efficacy and safety of canagliflozin compared with placebo and sitagliptin in patients with type 2 diabetes on background metformin monotherapy: a randomised trial.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT01106677 FUNDING: This study was supported by Janssen Research & Development, LLC.

UI  - 24026038
TI  - Effects of dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system on renal and cardiovascular outcomes in type 2 diabetes with overt nephropathy and hypertension in the ORIENT: a post-hoc analysis (ORIENT-Hypertension).
AB  - Combination therapy with angiotensin II receptor blockers and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs) requires further evaluation in patients with diabetic nephropathy and hypertension. In a post hoc analysis of the Olmesartan Reducing Incidence of Endstage renal disease in diabetic Nephropathy Trial with hypertension, we examined the effects of olmesartan on renal and cardiovascular outcomes in the presence or absence of an ACEI. Among 563 patients randomized to receive either olmesartan (n = 280) or placebo (n = 283), 73.5% (n = 414) received a concomitant ACEI. Compared with placebo, olmesartan significantly reduced proteinuria in both the ACEI-treated and non-ACEI-treated groups. The respective changes in the urinary protein creatinine ratio in the olmesartan-treated and placebo-treated groups were -32.6% and +21.1% without an ACEI (P = 0.001) and -17.0% and +2.2% with an ACEI (P = 0.028). In the olmesartan group, 115 patients developed primary renal outcomes (41.1%) compared with 129 (45.6%) in the placebo group (hazard ratio (HR): 0.97, P = 0.787). The respective HRs in the ACEI-treated and non-ACEI-treated groups were 1.02 (P = 0.891) and 0.84 (P = 0.450). 40 olmesartan-treated patients (14.3%) and 53 placebo-treated patients (18.7%) developed secondary cardiovascular outcomes (HR: 0.65, P = 0.042). The respective HRs in the ACEI-treated and non-ACEI-treated groups were 0.69 (P = 0.129) and 0.51 (P = 0.129). Olmesartan was well tolerated. Dual blockade treatment caused more hyperkalemia than monotherapy. In patients with diabetic nephropathy and hypertension, olmesartan significantly reduced proteinuria, independent of ACEI treatment and cardiovascular outcome but failed to show additional renal benefit compared with ACEI treatment alone. The cardiovascular benefit of dual treatment requires further evaluation.

UI  - 24024769
TI  - Chromium nicotinate has no effect on insulin sensitivity, glycemic control, and lipid profile in subjects with type 2 diabetes.
AB  - Supplementation at 50 and 200 g of chromium as chromium nicotinate did not promote glycemic control, increase insulin sensitivity, or change the lipid profile of subjects with diabetes.

UI  - 24023652
TI  - Concentrations of the stress hormone copeptin increase upon hypoglycaemia in patients with type 1 diabetes dependent of hypoglycaemia awareness.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00515801.

UI  - 24021938
TI  - Effects of guided breathing on blood pressure and heart rate variability in hypertensive diabetic patients.
AB  - Even in well controlled hypertensive diabetic patients, guided breathing induced relevant effects on BP and HRV, finding which should be investigated further.

UI  - 24021479
TI  - Identifying people with type 2 diabetes and those at risk: lessons from the measure your waist (MY-WAIST) mixed-methods study in UK primary care.
AB  - Implications discussed include the impact of low uptake on the usefulness of the quantitative data obtained, and lessons relevant to research design. Relevance to current guidance regarding early identification strategies is discussed and the importance of addressing the needs of less accessible groups is highlighted.

UI  - 24016502
TI  - Change in enrollment patterns, patient selection, and clinical outcomes with the availability of drug-eluting stents in the Bypass Angioplasty Revascularization Investigation 2 Diabetes trial.
AB  - When DES became available in North America, patients were more likely to be selected into the PCI-intended stratum. Compared with patients receiving BMS, those receiving DES tended to have less target vessel revascularization and angina.

UI  - 24016490
TI  - Evaluation of the dual peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor / agonist aleglitazar to reduce cardiovascular events in patients with acute coronary syndrome and type 2 diabetes mellitus: rationale and design of the AleCardio trial.
AB  - AleCardio will establish whether the PPAR-/ agonist aleglitazar improves cardiovascular outcomes in patients with diabetes and high-risk coronary disease.

UI  - 24015695
TI  - Improvements in glucose metabolism and insulin sensitivity with a low-carbohydrate diet in obese patients with type 2 diabetes.
AB  - A low-carbohydrate diet was well tolerated and achieved weight loss over 24 weeks in subjects with diabetes. Glycemic control improved with a reduction in requirements for hypoglycemic agents.

UI  - 24014218
TI  - Frequency of drug-induced valvular heart disease in patients previously exposd to benfluorex: a multicentre prospective study.
AB  - About 7% of patients without a history of heart valve disease previously exposed to benfluorex present echocardiography features of DI-VHD. Further studies are needed to study the natural history of DI-VHD and to identify risk factors for the development of drug-induced valve lesions.

UI  - 24013685
TI  - Reduction and residual proteinuria are therapeutic targets in type 2 diabetes with overt nephropathy: a post hoc analysis (ORIENT-proteinuria).
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00141453.

UI  - 24013651
TI  - Structural and functional measures of efficacy in response to bevacizumab monotherapy in diabetic macular oedema: exploratory analyses of the BOLT study (report 4).
AB  - These findings provide valuable information both for clinical practice and trials. Further studies are required to investigate the impact of intravitreal bevacizumab on retinal thickness profiles in DMO.

UI  - 24011681
TI  - Diabetes with comorbid depression: role of SSRI in better glycemic control.
AB  - Escitalopram is effective in treating depression in patients with diabetes mellitus, and has beneficial effects on glycemic control.

UI  - 24011395
TI  - Baseline and 1-year interim follow-up assessment of Japanese patients initiating insulin therapy who were enrolled in the cardiovascular risk evaluation in people with type 2 diabetes on insulin therapy study: an international, multicenter, observational study.
AB  - Our results suggest that insulin treatment is an effective and safe therapeutic option in Japanese patients with T2DM, and earlier insulin initiation might be associated with better glycemic control.

UI  - 24011069
TI  - The effects of LY2405319, an FGF21 analog, in obese human subjects with type 2 diabetes.
AB  - Fibroblast growth factor 21 (FGF21) is a recently discovered metabolic regulator. Exogenous FGF21 produces beneficial metabolic effects in animal models; however, the translation of these observations to humans has not been tested. Here, we studied the effects of LY2405319 (LY), a variant of FGF21, in a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind proof-of-concept trial in patients with obesity and type 2 diabetes. Patients received placebo or 3, 10, or 20 mg of LY daily for 28 days. LY treatment produced significant improvements in dyslipidemia, including decreases in low-density lipoprotein cholesterol and triglycerides and increases in high-density lipoprotein cholesterol and a shift to a potentially less atherogenic apolipoprotein concentration profile. Favorable effects on body weight, fasting insulin, and adiponectin were also detected. However, only a trend toward glucose lowering was observed. These results indicate that FGF21 is bioactive in humans and suggest that FGF21-based therapies may be effective for the treatment of selected metabolic disorders.

UI  - 24007456
TI  - Rationale, design and baseline characteristics of a 4-year (208-week) phase III trial of empagliflozin, an SGLT2 inhibitor, versus glimepiride as add-on to metformin in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus with insufficient glycemic control.
AB  - Clinicaltrials.gov NCT01167881.

UI  - 24004702
TI  - Treatment failure and costs in patients with methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) skin and soft tissue infections: a South Texas Ambulatory Research Network (STARNet) study.
AB  - One in 5 patients presenting to a primary care clinic for a methicillin-resistant S. aureus SSTI will likely require additional interventions at an associated cost of almost $2,000 per patient. Baseline risk stratification and new treatment approaches are needed to reduce treatment failures and costs in the primary care setting.

UI  - 24004460
TI  - Active post-marketing surveillance of the intralesional administration of human recombinant epidermal growth factor in diabetic foot ulcers.
AB  - The favorable benefit/risk balance, confirms the beneficial clinical profile of intralesional hrEGF in the treatment of DFUs.

UI  - 24002894
TI  - Clinical effect of addition of beraprost sodium to pioglitazone treatment on the blood glucose levels in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - In recent years, the number of patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus caused by insulin resistance has continued to increase in Japan. Insulin resistance is considered to be closely related to the risk of cardiovascular diseases and atherosclerotic diseases, represented by arteriosclerosis obliterans (ASO). Therefore, improvement of insulin resistance is one of the important strategies in the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus. At present, -glucosidase inhibitors, incretin-related drugs, and thiazolidinediones are among the most important oral hypoglycemic drugs used to improve insulin resistance. In this study, the effect of beraprost sodium, a prostaglandin I2 derivative, in the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus was investigated. In type 2 diabetic patients with ASO who were under treatment with pioglitazone, additional treatment with beraprost sodium exerted a significant synergistic effect in reducing the serum HbA1c levels as compared to treatment with pioglitazone alone. This result indicates that concomitant administration of pioglitazone and beraprost sodium may be useful in the treatment of diabetes -mellitus.

UI  - 24002670
TI  - Albuminuria and renal function as predictors of cardiovascular events and mortality in a general population of patients with type 2 diabetes: a nationwide observational study from the Swedish National Diabetes Register.
AB  - Albuminuria and renal impairment are independent risk factors for CV outcomes and mortality in T2D, albuminuria being the strongest risk factor and relevant at all levels of renal function. In normoalbuminuric patients, a reduction in renal function is an important predictor of CV events and all-cause mortality.

UI  - 24001317
TI  - The effect of vildagliptin relative to sulphonylureas in Muslim patients with type 2 diabetes fasting during Ramadan: the VIRTUE study.
AB  - In this real-world study of fasting Muslim patients with T2DM, vildagliptin was associated with significantly fewer hypoglycaemic episodes compared with SU therapy. This outcome is particularly meaningful when viewed in the context of good glycaemic and weight control observed in vildagliptin-treated patients. Vildagliptin was well tolerated in this patient population.

UI  - 24001058
TI  - Poor oral health and quality of life in older U.S. adults with diabetes mellitus.
AB  - Poor dentition and lack of dental care were associated with worse HRQOL in older adults with DM. Further research is needed to determine whether better oral health improves HRQOL in this population.

UI  - 23999642
TI  - Testosterone deficiency is associated with increased risk of mortality and testosterone replacement improves survival in men with type 2 diabetes.
AB  - Low testosterone levels predict an increase in all-cause mortality during long-term follow-up. Testosterone replacement may improve survival in hypogonadal men with type 2 diabetes.

UI  - 23999456
TI  - Effect of aliskiren on post-discharge outcomes among diabetic and non-diabetic patients hospitalized for heart failure: insights from the ASTRONAUT trial.
AB  - This pre-specified subgroup analysis from the ASTRONAUT trial generates the hypothesis that the addition of aliskiren to standard HHF therapy in non-diabetic patients is generally well-tolerated and improves post-discharge outcomes and biomarker profiles. In contrast, diabetic patients receiving aliskiren appear to have worse post-discharge outcomes. Future prospective investigations are needed to confirm potential benefits of renin inhibition in a large cohort of HHF patients without DM.

UI  - 23999452
TI  - Does hypoglycaemia increase the risk of cardiovascular events? A report from the ORIGIN trial.
AB  - Severe hypoglycaemia is associated with an increased risk for CV outcomes in people at high CV risk and dysglycaemia. Although allocation to insulin glargine vs. standard care was associated with an increased risk of severe and non-severe hypoglycaemia, the relative risk of CV outcomes with hypoglycaemia was lower with insulin glargine-based glucose-lowering therapy than with the standard glycaemic control. Trial Registration (ORIGIN ClinicalTrials.gov number NCT00069784).

UI  - 23999278
TI  - Beverage-consumption patterns and associations with metabolic risk factors among low-income Latinos with uncontrolled type 2 diabetes.
AB  - In the United States, Latinos experience disproportionately higher rates of type 2 diabetes and diabetes-related complications than non-Latino whites. Sugar-sweetened beverage (SSB) consumption is strongly associated with increased risk of developing type 2 diabetes. Reducing caloric intake, particularly from energy-dense, low-nutrient foods or beverages, can be an effective and key strategy for metabolic and weight control. However, little is known about the contribution of various types of beverages, including but not limited to SSBs, to total caloric intake among Latinos with type 2 diabetes. Low-income Latinos (87.7% Puerto Rican) participating in a diabetes self-management intervention trial (N=238) provided cross-sectional, descriptive data on beverage-consumption patterns, anthropometric outcomes, and metabolic characteristics. Beverages accounted for one fifth of the total daily caloric intake. SSBs and milk beverages, respectively, contributed 9.6% of calories to overall daily caloric intake. Interventions directed at diabetes risk factors among low-income Latinos with diabetes can benefit from consideration of beverage-consumption behaviors as an important strategy to reduce caloric and sugar intake.

UI  - 23998560
TI  - Treat-to-target comparison between once daily biphasic insulin aspart 30 and insulin glargine in Chinese and Japanese insulin-nave subjects with type 2 diabetes.
AB  - BIAsp 30 once daily showed similar HbA1c reduction and a similar safety profile to IGlar when used in insulin-nave Chinese and Japanese patients on metformin and a sulfonylurea. Moreover, it provided a better coverage of post-dinner glycemic control needs than those who received IGlar. The open-label design and insufficient insulin dose titration were the main limitations of the study.

UI  - 23994919
TI  - [Metabolic therapy in neurology].
AB  - We studied the efficacy of rheosorbilact, an original infusion drug based on polyalcohols, in the complex therapy of patients with brain ischemia and diabetic neuropathy. Reosorbilact was used intravenously indrops 200-400 ml in day - 20 days. The primary endpoint of the study was the improvement of quality of life assessed with the SF-36 scale after 1 month of treatment. Patients with brain ischemia underwent neuropsychological tests and ultrasound duplex scanning of the carotid and vertebral arteries. In the group of patients with diabetic neuropathy, we evaluated the intensity of pain syndrome with the NRS, blood glucose level and electroneuromyography parameters of low extremities nerves. Some characteristics of acid-base balance were studied in patients of both groups. The results obtained in the study indicate the significant clinical effect of reosorbilact in patients with brain ischemia and diabetic neuropathy.

UI  - 23994420
TI  - Allopurinol reduces left ventricular mass in patients with type 2 diabetes and left ventricular hypertrophy.
AB  - Allopurinol causes regression of LVM in patients with T2DM and LVH. Regression of LVH has been shown previously to improve CV mortality and morbidity. Therefore, allopurinol therapy may become useful to reduce CV events in T2DM patients with LVH. (Allopurinol in Patients with Diabetes and LVH; UKCRN 8766).

UI  - 23993469
TI  - Acarbose plus metformin fixed-dose combination outperforms acarbose monotherapy for type 2 diabetes.
AB  - Compared with acarbose monotherapy, acarbose/metformin FDC has superior antihyperglycaemic efficacy, brings proportionally more T2D patients to HbA1c goal, and further reduces bodyweight. Acarbose/metformin FDC is well-tolerated without significant risk of hypoglycaemia and is a potentially advantageous therapy for T2D.
