
UI  - 23401274
TI  - Steroid-independent upregulation of matrix metalloproteinase 9 in chronic rhinosinusitis patients with radiographic evidence of osteitis.
AB  - This is the first study to evaluate the role of MMP in the bone and mucosa of patients with sinonasal osteitis. The pattern of expression suggests there may be a time- and tissue-dependent role for MMP9 in the pathophysiology of osteitis. In addition, MMP9 overexpression is seen despite preoperative oral and intranasal steroid use, suggesting that if MMP9 is an important factor in the development of osteitis then steroids may not be the best treatment in prevention of osteitis.

UI  - 22337530
TI  - Two-year results: transantral balloon dilation of the ethmoid infundibulum.
AB  - Patients with chronic rhinosinusitis and radiographic evidence of isolated maxillary disease with or without anterior ethmoid disease have reported clinically meaningful and statistically significant improvement in symptoms, productivity, and activity through a minimum of 2 years following standalone balloon dilation.

UI  - 22301107
TI  - Advance II: a prospective, randomized study assessing safety and efficacy of bioabsorbable steroid-releasing sinus implants.
AB  - This study provides a high level of evidence that use of steroid-releasing implants that apply a sustained release of corticosteroid improves surgical outcomes by reducing synechiae formation, polyposis, and the need for postoperative interventions, with no observable ocular safety risk.

UI  - 22287304
TI  - Safety and efficacy of a novel bioabsorbable, steroid-eluting sinus stent.
AB  - This study demonstrates the safety and efficacy of a novel bioabsorbable, steroid-eluting stent for use in CRS patients. The steroid-eluting stent is effective in improving wound healing by preserving sinus patency, reducing inflammation, and minimizing adhesions via controlled local steroid delivery without measurable systemic exposure.

UI  - 22020898
TI  - ADVANCE: a multisite trial of bioabsorbable steroid-eluting sinus implants.
AB  - This consecutive case series provides clinical evidence of the safety, effectiveness, and clinical utility of a bioabsorbable steroid-eluting implant for use in CRS patients. The implant was associated with favorable rates of sinus patency. At 1 month, minimal degrees of inflammation and adhesions were observed, suggesting a positive clinical impact of local steroid delivery without evidence of ocular risk.

UI  - 20155675
TI  - One-year results: Transantral balloon dilation of the ethmoid infundibulum.
AB  - A prospective, multicenter research study is under way to demonstrate long-term improvement in chronic rhinosinusitis symptoms after transantral balloon dilation of the ethmoid infundibulum. Trial results from an interim analysis of symptomatic status using the Sino-Nasal Outcome Test 20 survey demonstrate significant and sustained improvement through post-procedure 1-year follow-up. Additionally, these data provide evidence that the symptomatic improvements following balloon expansion within the ostiomeatal unit to treat medically refractory inflammation of the maxillary sinuses, either alone or with concomitant anterior ethmoid disease, are similar.

UI  - 18478835
TI  - Multicenter registry of balloon catheter sinusotomy outcomes for 1,036 patients.
AB  - Use of balloon catheters as instruments in sinus surgery appears to be relatively safe and effective and to improve the patient's quality of life. The results are consistent and generalizable across a wide range of sinusitis patients and physician practices. The complication rates, revision rates, and patient symptom improvement rates all compare favorably with previously reported results of functional endoscopic sinus surgery.

UI  - 17451119
TI  - Comparing the microdebrider and standard instruments in endoscopic sinus surgery: a double-blind randomised study.
AB  - In this study of endoscopic sinus surgery the use of the microdebrider does not offer major advantages compared to the standard instruments.

UI  - 17007184
TI  - Comparison of radical (nasalisation) and functional ethmoidectomy in patients with severe sinonasal polyposis. A retrospective study.
AB  - Our study suggests that in the treatment of nasal polyposis complete ethmoidectomy leads to better long term results than incomplete ethmoidectomy.

UI  - 16824608
TI  - Salvage treatment of histoplasmosis with posaconazole.
AB  - Six patients received salvage treatment with posaconazole oral suspension (800 mg/day in divided doses) for severe forms of histoplasmosis. One patient had pulmonary disease and 5 had disseminated disease. Previous antifungal therapy consisted of amphotericin B, itraconazole, fluconazole, or voriconazole. Posaconazole treatment duration for individual patients ranged from 6 weeks to 34 weeks. All patients had successful clinical outcomes with significant clinical improvements noted during the first month of therapy. Although the number of patients evaluated in this case series is small, the findings are encouraging and provide preliminary evidence that posaconazole may be a useful salvage treatment option for histoplasmosis involving a variety of infected tissues and organs.

UI  - 16353009
TI  - [Etiotropic therapy with sparfloxacine in ENT practice].
AB  - 

UI  - 11743460
TI  - Sepragel sinus (hylan B) as a postsurgical dressing for endoscopic sinus surgery.
AB  - Because of its biocompatibility, lack of inflammatory response, transparency, and ability to fill any complex volume, Sepragel sinus offers distinct advantages over currently used stenting materials.

UI  - 10779188
TI  - Effect of intranasal treatment with capsaicin on the recurrence of polyps after polypectomy and ethmoidectomy.
AB  - The aim of this study was to evaluate the influence of five intranasal applications of capsaicin, performed after endoscopic polypectomy associated with partial middle turbinectomy and anterior ethmoidectomy, on the recurrence of nasal polyps and the intensity of nasal obstruction and rhinorrhea. Fifty-one patients (19 females, 32 males, mean age 43 years) suffering from nasal polyposis for more than 1 year were included in this double blind, randomized, placebo-controlled study. During post-surgical controls, local anaesthesia and vasoconstriction of the middle meatus area were performed in all patients with a cotton pellet soaked with lidocain and adrenaline. In 29 patients, the same type of cotton pellet soaked with capsaicin (3 x 10(-6) mol. dissolved in 70% ethanol) was left into the middle meatus of both nostrils for 20 min. As a control group, 22 patients, matched for age and sex, were treated with the capsaicin vehicle alone (70% ethanol). All patients studied received the intranasal treatment once a week for 5 weeks. Subjective evaluations of nasal airway resistance (NAR) and rhinorrhea were recorded by means of a visual analogue scale. Clinical staging of the nasal polyposis (graded from stage 0 = absence of polyp to stage 3 = polyps occupying the entire nasal cavity) was evaluated by the same ENT specialist (ZW) using a 0 degrees endoscope. All parameters were recorded for each patient 1 week before surgery, then once a month for 9 months. Patients treated by endoscopic surgery followed by intranasal capsaicin application, reported a marked reduction in their NAR compared with the pretreatment evaluation (p<0.001). In contrast, patients treated with the vehicle alone did not have any significant improvement of their subjective NAR. Subjective rhinorrhea was not modified by either treatment. Patients treated with capsaicin showed a significant smaller staging of their nasal polyposis compared with the control group (p<0.001). These observations suggest that endoscopic surgery followed by intranasal capsaicin application reduces polyps and nasal obstruction recurrence and could be an alternative treatment to expensive corticosteroids in developing countries.

UI  - 9768317
TI  - Intranasal anatomic variations in pediatric sinusitis.
AB  - 

UI  - 9602984
TI  - A comparison of the efficacy, tolerability and safety of azithromycin and co-amoxiclav in the treatment of sinusitis in adults.
AB  - The efficacy, tolerability and safety of azithromycin and co-amoxiclav in the treatment of non-severe acute maxillary/ethmoidal sinusitis were compared in a randomized, open clinical trial in 254 adult patients. The predominant pathogens were Streptococcus pneumoniae and Haemophilus influenzae (83 patients). Azithromycin was administered orally to 165 patients at a single daily dose of 500 mg for 3 days, and co-amoxiclav (4:1) to 89 patients, at a dose of 500 mg three times daily for 10 days. The overall clinical response rates were 87.5% for azithromycin and 83.7% for co-amoxiclav at follow-up (day 21-28). Microbiological responses to both drugs were good, with only five patients in each group having a persistent infection after treatment. Both drugs were well tolerated and produced similar incidences of adverse events, which were mostly gastrointestinal. Azithromycin was as effective, and as well tolerated as co-amoxiclav, and its shorter simpler dosing regime may offer advantages in compliance and cost.

UI  - 9577490
TI  - Allergic fungal sinusitis: CT findings.
AB  - Allergic fungal sinusitis is a distinct clinical entity with nonspecific symptoms that may be initially suggested by the CT findings. These findings should alert the clinician to the possibility of allergic fungal sinusitis and prompt other diagnostic studies to establish the diagnosis and treatment plan.

UI  - 9328124
TI  - Chronic sinusitis refractory to standard management in patients with humoral immunodeficiencies.
AB  - Chronic refractory sinusitis is a common feature in patients with primary immunodeficiencies. The efficacy of standard therapeutic strategies is questionable. In an open trial we evaluated the efficacy of azithromycin, N-acetylcysteine and topical intranasal beclomethasone (100 microg twice daily for 6 weeks) in 16 patients with primary immunodeficiencies (median age 13.5 years, range 5-32 years). All patients suffered from chronic sinusitis despite regular immunoglobulin replacement therapy every 3 weeks. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans were performed before and after 6 weeks of treatment to evaluate morphological changes in the paranasal sinuses. Nasal swabs and washings were taken for microbial analysis and measurement of inflammatory mediators (IL-8, tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), eosinophilic cationic protein (ECP)) before and post therapy. Inflammatory mediators in nasal secretions were significantly elevated in patients: IL-8 median 2436 pg/ml (range 441-5435 pg/ml), TNF-alpha 37.3 pg/ml (3.75-524 pg/ml) and ECP 33 ng/ml (1.5-250 ng/ml) versus age-matched healthy controls: IL-8 median 212 pg/ml (99-825 pg/ml), TNF-alpha 3.77 pg/ml (2.8-10.2 pg/ml) and ECP 1.5 ng/ml (1.5-14.8 ng/ml) (P < 0.0001). Inflammation of the maxillary sinuses was confirmed by MRI scans in all patients, additionally infection of the ethmoidal and frontal sinuses was recorded in five patients. Bacterial growth appeared in 11 out of 16 cultures. In spite of therapy, no improvement in sinal inflammation visualized by MRI was achieved. Moreover, no significant decrease in pathogens and levels of inflammatory mediators could be detected (IL-8 1141 pg/ml, 426-4556 pg/ml; TNF-alpha 13.9 pg/ml, 4.1-291.6 pg/ml; ECP 32.3 ng/ml, 3.7-58.4 ng/ml). Our results demonstrate that conventional management of sinusitis is of little benefit in patients with chronic refractory sinusitis with an underlying immunodeficiency. More studies are needed to test antibiotic regimens, probably combined with surgical drainage and anti-inflammatory agents.

UI  - 9149159
TI  - Image-guided endoscopic surgery: results of accuracy and performance in a multicenter clinical study using an electromagnetic tracking system.
AB  - Image-guided surgery has recently been described in the literature as a useful technology for improved functional endoscopic sinus surgery localization. Image-guided surgery yields accurate knowledge of the surgical field boundaries, allowing safer and more thorough sinus surgery. We have previously reviewed our initial experience with The InstaTrak System. This article presents a multicenter clinical study (n=55) that assesses the system's capability for localizing structures in critical surgical sites. The purpose of this paper is to present quantitative data on accuracy and performance. We describe several new advances including an automated registration technique that eliminates the redundant computed tomography scan, compensation for head movement, and the ability to use interchangeable instruments.

UI  - 7805431
TI  - A double-blind comparison of ciprofloxacin and amoxycillin/clavulanic acid in the treatment of chronic sinusitis.
AB  - A total of 251 adults with chronic sinusitis were enrolled into this prospective multicentre, double-blind, double-placebo comparison of ciprofloxacin (500 mg twice daily) with amoxycillin/clavulanic acid (500 mg three times daily). The diagnosis of chronic sinusitis (persistence of clinical symptoms for at least 3 months) was confirmed by computerized tomography scan and/or sinusoscopy prior to therapy. Patients at inclusion had purulent or muco-purulent rhinorrhoea. Staphylococcus aureus (n = 45), Haemophilus influenzae (n = 35), Streptococcus pneumoniae (n = 32) and enterobacteriaceae (n = 31) were isolated from pre-treatment aspirates of the middle meatus. Treatment lasted 9 days, at the end of which nasal discharge disappeared in 71/118 (60.2%) patients of the ciprofloxacin group and 69/123 (56.1%) of those in the amoxycillin/clavulanic acid group. The clinical cure and bacteriological eradication rates were 58.6% versus 51.2% and 88.9% versus 90.5% for ciprofloxacin and amoxycillin/clavulanic acid, respectively. These differences were not significant, however, amongst patients who had a positive initial culture and who were evaluated 40 days after treatment. Ciprofloxacin recipients had a significantly higher cure rate than those treated with amoxycillin/clavulanic acid (83.3% vs. 67.6%, p = 0.043). Clinical tolerance was significantly better with ciprofloxacin (p = 0.012), essentially due to a large number of gastro-intestinal related side-effects in the amoxycillin/clavulanic acid group (n = 35). Ciprofloxacin proved to be at least as effective as amoxycillin/clavulanic acid. The superior safety profile, a twice daily dosage regimen, suggests that ciprofloxacin may be a useful therapeutic alternative for the treatment of chronic sinusitis.

UI  - 1614693
TI  - Phlegmonous and abscess-forming ENT infections: comparative efficacy of ceftriaxone versus amoxicillin-clavulanic acid.
AB  - In this randomized trial, 100 patients received ceftriaxone or amoxicillin-clavulanic acid in phlegmonous or abscess-forming ENT infections. Clinical and bacteriological results confirm that both antibiotics are equally effective, the advantage of ceftriaxone being one administration a day. Drainage surgery is necessary when an abscess has already formed. In 4 cases (ceftriaxone: 3; amoxicillin-clavulanic acid: 1), no positive response could be observed. Systemic and local tolerance was, as a general rule, excellent, and side effects were reported in 3 cases of the ceftriaxone group and in 3 cases of the amoxicillin-clavulanic acid group.
