
UI  - 24705480
TI  - Provider use of collaborative goal setting with glaucoma patients.
AB  - Eye care providers often did not use collaborative goal setting or conduct individualized assessments of patient views on glaucoma when prescribing treatment for the first time.

UI  - 24667994
TI  - Bimatoprost 0.03%/timolol 0.5% preservative-free ophthalmic solution versus bimatoprost 0.03%/timolol 0.5% ophthalmic solution (Ganfort) for glaucoma or ocular hypertension: a 12-week randomised controlled trial.
AB  - NCT01177098.

UI  - 24491639
TI  - Glucose-induced temporary visual recovery in primary open-angle glaucoma: a double-blind, randomized study.
AB  - Topical glucose temporarily improves psychophysical visual parameters in some individuals with POAG, suggesting that neuronal energy substrate delivery to the vitreous reservoir may recover function of "sick" retinal neurons.

UI  - 24481483
TI  - Effectiveness of intraocular pressure-lowering medication determined by washout.
AB  - IMPORTANCE While medication efficacy is well documented in clinical trials, less is known of medication effectiveness in real-world clinical settings. OBJECTIVE To assess the effectiveness of intraocular pressure (IOP)-lowering medications in patients with open-angle glaucoma. DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS Prospective, multicenter, interventional cohort from the prerandomization phase of a randomized clinical trial at multiple ophthalmology clinics. A total of 603 patients (603 eyes) with primary open-angle glaucoma who were using up to 3 glaucoma medications were included. INTERVENTIONS One IOP measurement was made while the patient was using his or her usual medications to lower IOP (ON IOP). Eligible participants underwent washout of all IOP-lowering drops, and the diurnal IOP was measured 2 to 4 weeks later (OFF IOP). MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES Difference between OFF IOP and ON IOP. The hypothesis was formulated after data collection. RESULTS The mean (SD) ON IOPs for participants using 0 (n=102), 1 (n=272), 2 (n=147), or 3 (n=82) medications were 24.2 (3.2), 17.5 (3.2), 17.2 (3.1), and 17.2 (3.1) mm Hg, respectively. Patients not using medication had a mean (SD) IOP decrease of 0.2 (2.8) mm Hg at the OFF visit. Patients using 1, 2, and 3 medications had mean (SD) IOP increases of 5.4 (3.0), 6.9 (3.3), and 9.0 (3.8) mm Hg, respectively, at the OFF visit. The percentages of patients with less than a 25% increase in IOP were 38%, 21%, and 13% for those using 1, 2, and 3 medications, respectively. CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE Discontinuation of 1, 2, and 3 medications was associated with a clinically significant increase in IOP, although with smaller effects for the second and third medications compared with the first medication. A substantial proportion of patients showed only small changes in IOP after medication washout, suggesting either that they were not using the medication effectively or that the medication itself, although used properly, was not lowering the IOP. TRIAL REGISTRATION clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT01085357.

UI  - 24452726
TI  - Prospective, unmasked evaluation of the iStent inject system for open-angle glaucoma: synergy trial.
AB  - In this series, implantation of two trabecular micro-bypass second generation stents in subjects with OAG resulted in IOP and medication reduction and favorable safety outcomes.

UI  - 24429379
TI  - Impact of patient access to Internet health records on glaucoma medication: randomized controlled trial.
AB  - UMIN-CTR Clinical Trial Number: UMIN000006982; https://upload.umin.ac.jp/cgi-open-bin/ctr/ctr.cgi?function=brows&action=brows&type=summary&recptno=R000008238&language=E (Archived by WebCite at http://www.webcitation.org/6MRPQeEAv).

UI  - 24393349
TI  - Intraocular pressure in eyes receiving monthly ranibizumab in 2 pivotal age-related macular degeneration clinical trials.
AB  - Most ranibizumab-treated eyes did not experience sustained preinjection IOP of 21 mmHg or more (>2 consecutive visits) over 24 months. When evaluating the combined IOP end point, more ranibizumab-treated eyes had 1 or more IOP increase from baseline of 6 mmHg or more or 8 mmHg or more, with concurrent highest IOPs of 21 mmHg or more and 25 mmHg or more versus sham or PDT. Intraocular pressure should be monitored in eyes receiving ranibizumab.

UI  - 24386793
TI  - [Compliance of treatment in glaucoma patients].
AB  - In this study, the compliance level of glaucoma patients is relatively high and we observe a correlation between the compliance level and demographic location, and between the compliance level and patient's education level respectively.,

UI  - 24354263
TI  - [Clinical efficacy of travoprost-timolol fixed combination on ocular hypotensive agents and ocular surface agents in Japanese glaucoma patients].
AB  - These results suggest that travoprost-timolol fixed combination reduces IOP and produces low toxicity on the ocular surface.

UI  - 24281785
TI  - Higher optic nerve sheath diameters are associated with lower ocular blood flow velocities in glaucoma patients.
AB  - ONSD is negatively correlated with retrobulbar blood flow velocities in glaucoma patients, but not in healthy controls.

UI  - 24212838
TI  - Ocular surface evaluation in patients treated with a fixed combination of prostaglandin analogues with 0.5% timolol maleate topical monotherapy: a randomized clinical trial.
AB  - All of the fixed combinations induced a significant reduction in intraocular pressure, and the travoprost/timolol group showed increased expression of the inflammatory markers HLA-DR and interleukin-6. All three tested medications resulted in some degree of deterioration in the ocular surface after three months of glaucoma treatment.

UI  - 24180628
TI  - The safety and efficacy of brinzolamide 1%/timolol 0.5% fixed combination versus dorzolamide 2%/timolol 0.5% in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
AB  - Both Brinz/Tim and Dorz/Tim showed similar significant and clinically relevant IOP-lowering efficacy, whereas Brinz/Tim provided superior outcomes in terms of ocular comfort.

UI  - 24158846
TI  - Intracameral bevacizumab as an adjunct to trabeculectomy: a 1-year prospective, randomised study.
AB  - Peroperative administration of intracameral bevacizumab significantly reduces the need for additional interventions during the follow-up of patients undergoing trabeculectomy.

UI  - 24126032
TI  - The United Kingdom Glaucoma Treatment Study: a multicenter, randomized, double-masked, placebo-controlled trial: baseline characteristics.
AB  - This is the first randomized, placebo-controlled trial to evaluate the efficacy of medical treatment in reducing VF deterioration in OAG. The baseline characteristics for eligible patients and eyes from this cohort are presented and compared with those of previous trials. The baseline characteristics are similar to those of the largely population-based Early Manifest Glaucoma Trial. The early stage of the glaucoma and relatively low IOP at diagnosis suggest remarkably sensitive case findings by community optometrists in the United Kingdom.

UI  - 24115838
TI  - The effect of prostaglandin analogs on the biomechanical properties and central thickness of the cornea of patients with open-angle glaucoma: a 3-year study on 108 eyes.
AB  - The changes of CCT and CH under PGA treatment in clinical practice may influence IOP measurements and patient follow-up significantly. This should be investigated further to confirm the relationship between corneal properties and treatment of open-angle glaucoma.

UI  - 24070367
TI  - A randomized, prospective study of bimatoprost 0.01% or travoprost/timolol in patients previously treated with latanoprost and timolol to reduce intraocular pressure.
AB  - Bimatoprost 0.01% and travoprost/timolol are both effective at reducing IOP in subjects with stable IOP control on latanoprost and timolol, but bimatoprost 0.01% is associated with less hyperemia.

UI  - 24061832
TI  - The prevalence of ocular surface complaints in Brazilian patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
AB  - A large proportion of Brazilian patients treated with 1 IOP-lowering therapy had some ocular surface complaints.

UI  - 24060307
TI  - [Sensimed Triggerfish() as a new system for continuous recording of 24-hour intraocular pressure in glaucoma patients].
AB  - 

UI  - 24020826
TI  - In vivo confocal microscopy of conjunctiva in preservative-free timolol 0.1% gel formulation therapy for glaucoma.
AB  - Based on our IVCM data, preservative-free beta-blocker gel induces less changes at ocular surface than preserved beta-blockers, a fact that should be considered to obtain less adverse effects and maximal adherence to treatment in a chronic condition such as glaucoma.

UI  - 24008808
TI  - Evaluation of brimonidine-timolol fixed combination in patients of primary open-angle glaucoma.
AB  - The aim of present study was to compare the efficacy and safety of fixed combination of brimonidine and timolol with individual components used as monotherapy in patients of primary open angle glaucoma. Patients were randomly assigned to receive brimonidine or timolol or brimonidine-timolol fixed combination, with 30 patients in each group. The mean reduction in intraocular pressure in brimonidine, timolol, and brimonidine-timolol group were 4.29  1.97 mm Hg, 4.34  1.21 mm Hg, and 5.54  1.87 mm Hg respectively at 2 weeks and 4.86  1.16 mm Hg, 5.42  1.50 mm Hg, and 7.36  2.58 mm Hg respectively at 6 weeks. When values of mean reduction in intraocular pressure were compared between brimonidine-timolol fixed combination with brimonidine and timolol, it was found to be statistically significant ( P < 0.05) at 2 weeks and highly significant (0.001) at 6 weeks. The overall frequency of adverse effects was similar in all three groups.

UI  - 24006861
TI  - Evaluation of eye drop administration technique in patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
AB  - NCT01253902.

UI  - 23971041
TI  - Influence of BAK-preserved prostaglandin analog treatment on the ocular surface health in patients with newly diagnosed primary open-angle glaucoma.
AB  - This study showed that BAK-preserved travoprost 0.004% is an effective medication in newly diagnosed POAG patients, but its long-term use may negatively influence ocular surface health by disrupting the tear film stability. Further studies are needed to better understand the clinical effects of different preservative types and concentrations on the ocular surface.

UI  - 23970024
TI  - Eye drop instillation technique in patients with glaucoma.
AB  - Education relating to eye drop instillation technique is significantly associated with a patient's ability to instil drops correctly. The assessment of a patient's ability to instil eye drops correctly should be a routine part of the glaucoma examination.

UI  - 23939294
TI  - Orbscan topography in primary open-angle glaucoma.
AB  - Primary open-angle glaucoma eyes have a higher elevation of the posterior corneal surface than that in central corneal thickness-matched nonglaucomatous eyes.

UI  - 23855234
TI  - [Influence on ocular surface and intraocular pressure of switching from preservative-containing to preservative-free carteolol hydrochloride ophthalmic solution].
AB  - 

UI  - 23844550
TI  - Prostaglandin associated periorbitopathy in patients using bimatoprost, latanoprost and travoprost.
AB  - Prostaglandin-associated periorbitopathy is as common as other adverse effects when careful examinations are performed and is more frequent and more severe in bimatoprost users. The loss of the periorbital fat pad is the first sign to occur during the evolution of prostaglandin-associated periorbitopathy, especially in older patients.

UI  - 23831221
TI  - Phase 2 randomized clinical study of a Rho kinase inhibitor, K-115, in primary open-angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension.
AB  - On the basis of this dose-response study, K-115 0.4% has been selected to be the optimal dose and has the potential to be a promising new agent for glaucoma to control 24-hour IOP by twice-daily dosing.

UI  - 23818768
TI  - Patients undergoing long-term treatment with antihypertensive eye drops responded positively with respect to their ocular surface disorder to oral supplementation with antioxidants and essential fatty acids.
AB  - Inflammation biomarkers were differentially expressed in glaucomatous tears, but the differences changed upon antioxidant/essential polyunsaturated fatty acid supplementation. Chronic instillation of antihypertensive eye drops must be considered for integrating protocols to glaucoma standards of care.

UI  - 23808186
TI  - [Efficacy of vitamin mineral complex "Focus forte" in combined treatment of primary open-angle glaucoma and age-related macular degeneration].
AB  - The efficacy of Focus forte is proved in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) and age-related macular degeneration (AMD) in terms of improvement of functional retinal activity, oxygenation, metabolism normalization as well as morphometric retinal and optic nerve indices. Principles of evidence based pharmacotherapy in this study allow advising Focus forte in the treatment of patients with POAG and AMD.

UI  - 23808185
TI  - [Antioxidant agents in neuroprotection treatment of glaucoma].
AB  - Purpose was to study efficiency and safety of mexidol in combined therapy in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG). 94 patients (185 eyes) at the age of 18-75 years old with POAG I-III stages were divided into 3 groups: 50 patients received combined therapy of mexidol 100 mg and picamilon 150 mg, 22 patients received combined therapy of mexidol 300 mg and picamilon 150 mg, 22 patients received only picamilon 150 mg. All medicine was administered qd during 14 or 21 days. Examination included standard ophthalmologic methods, perimetry, electroretinography, retinal and optic nerve heard arterial blood flow. Improvement of visual acuity, perimetric, electrofisiological indicies and increased blood flow velocity of central retinal artery were registrated. Combined mexidol therapy allows improving results in treatment of patients with POAG.

UI  - 23743437
TI  - Bimatoprost 0.03% preservative-free ophthalmic solution versus bimatoprost 0.03% ophthalmic solution (Lumigan) for glaucoma or ocular hypertension: a 12-week, randomised, double-masked trial.
AB  - Bimatoprost PF is non-inferior and equivalent to bimatoprost in its ability to reduce IOP-lowering with a safety profile similar to bimatoprost.

UI  - 23713521
TI  - Effect of tafluprost 0.0015% on central corneal thickness in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma.
AB  - Long-term use of tafluprost may decrease the CCT in patients with POAG. Consequently, clinicians must be aware of prolongated CCT variations that may arise throughout the follow-up period for proper IOP targeting and management.

UI  - 23686322
TI  - 24-hour efficacy of the bimatoprost-timolol fixed combination versus latanoprost as first choice therapy in subjects with high-pressure exfoliation syndrome and glaucoma.
AB  - As first choice therapy in high-pressure, at-risk exfoliation patients, BTFC controlled mean 24-h IOP significantly better than latanoprost monotherapy.

UI  - 23681371
TI  - Twenty-four hour efficacy with preservative free tafluprost compared with latanoprost in patients with primary open angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
AB  - NCT01162603.

UI  - 23661528
TI  - Treatment of glaucomatous patients by means of food supplement to reduce the ocular discomfort: a double blind randomized trial.
AB  - The association of forskolin, rutin and vitamins B1 and B2 appears to be protective for the ocular surface, contributing to restore a normal equilibrium of the tear film in those subjects in which toxic agents such as BAK had determined alterations of its homeostasis.

UI  - 23640612
TI  - Fixed-combination brinzolamide 1%/brimonidine 0.2% vs monotherapy with brinzolamide or brimonidine in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension: results of a pooled analysis of two phase 3 studies.
AB  - This analysis strengthens the conclusions drawn from the two individual phase 3 studies showing that, in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension, BBFC had significantly superior IOP-lowering activity compared with either brinzolamide or brimonidine alone and a safety profile consistent with that of its individual components.

UI  - 23621628
TI  - The effect of bevacizumab on the outcome of trabeculectomy with 5-Fluorouracil.
AB  - Bevacizumab may not exert significant additive effects in trabeculectomy when administered in conjunction with 5-FU.

UI  - 23615390
TI  - Citicoline oral solution in glaucoma: is there a role in slowing disease progression?
AB  - This study seems to indicate that supplementation with citicoline might significantly slow down glaucomatous rates of progression.

UI  - 23601909
TI  - Conjunctival goblet cells density and preservative-free tafluprost therapy for glaucoma: an in vivo confocal microscopy and impression cytology study.
AB  - Treatment with PF tafluprost was associated with an increase in conjunctival GCD in glaucomatous eyes nave for therapy. Further studies are mandatory to verify this finding because its validation may have important consequences in the medical management of glaucoma.

UI  - 23584651
TI  - Comparison of the efficacy and safety of bimatoprost (0.03 %) and travoprost (0.004 %) in patients with primary open angle glaucoma.
AB  - Both drugs lowered IOP effectively but bimatoprost showed a greater reduction in the mean IOP than did travoprost at 12 weeks and both are safe for ocular use.

UI  - 23579344
TI  - Three-month randomized trial of fixed-combination brinzolamide, 1%, and brimonidine, 0.2%.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT01297517.

UI  - 23564224
TI  - Comparative cross-sectional analysis of the effects of topical antiglaucoma drugs on the ocular surface.
AB  - Long-term treatment with BAK-containing antiglaucoma medication appears to be the main contributor to corneal toxicity and to do so in a dose-dependent manner. Formulations containing beta-blockers also appear to contribute to corneal toxicity.

UI  - 23550916
TI  - Comparison of 24-hour intraocular pressure reduction obtained with brinzolamide/timolol or brimonidine/timolol fixed-combination adjunctive to travoprost therapy.
AB  - This study demonstrated that both FCs provide statistically and clinically significant incremental 24-h IOP lowering to travoprost monotherapy. The brinzolamide/timolol FC however achieves a better mean 24-h IOP control owing to the greater efficacy in late afternoon and during the night.

UI  - 23530946
TI  - Effects of dorzolamide-timolol and brimonidine-timolol on retinal vascular autoregulation and ocular perfusion pressure in primary open angle glaucoma.
AB  - D/T significantly improved RVA in POAG patients exhibiting RVD while on timolol 0.5% alone. D/T also increased sOPP compared to B/T. There was no significant difference (P=0.37) between D/T and B/T in improving RVA.

UI  - 23524858
TI  - Impact of age, diagnosis, and history of glaucoma surgery on outcomes in pediatric patients treated with latanoprost.
AB  - All age and diagnosis subgroups showed clinically relevant (>20%) mean IOP reduction at week 12 with latanoprost monotherapy.

UI  - 23497845
TI  - The rate of structural change: the confocal scanning laser ophthalmoscopy ancillary study to the ocular hypertension treatment study.
AB  - The rate of rim area loss is approximately 5 times faster in eyes in which POAG developed compared with eyes in which it did not. These results suggest that measuring the rate of structural change can provide important information for the clinical management of ocular hypertensive patients. Additional follow-up is needed to determine whether the statisticallysignificant change in the eyes in which POAG did notdevelop represents normal aging or glaucomatous change not detected by conventional methods.

UI  - 23475405
TI  - Ocular surface tolerability of prostaglandin analogs and prostamides in patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
AB  - Despite preservative differences, there were no significant differences in objective clinical measures of ocular surface tolerability after 3 months of treatment with bimatoprost (with 0.02% BAK), travoprost (with sofZia), and latanoprost (with 0.02% BAK).

UI  - 23466269
TI  - The Singapore 5-fluorouracil trial: intraocular pressure outcomes at 8 years.
AB  - The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.

UI  - 23461283
TI  - Effect of prophylactic intraocular pressure-lowering medication on pain during cataract surgery.
AB  - Prophylactic application of the IOP-lowering medication may alter the pain sensation during phacoemulsification cataract surgery.

UI  - 23434331
TI  - Safety and efficacy of unpreserved timolol 0.1% gel in patients controlled by preserved latanoprost with signs of ocular intolerance.
AB  - Unpreserved timolol 0.1% gel maintained the efficacy of preserved latanoprost and reduced signs and symptoms of intolerance in almost all glaucomatous/OHT patients on preserved latanoprost.

UI  - 23425430
TI  - Phase 3 randomized 3-month trial with an ongoing 3-month safety extension of fixed-combination brinzolamide 1%/brimonidine 0.2%.
AB  - This study demonstrated that BBFC has significantly superior IOP-lowering activity compared with either brinzolamide 1% or brimonidine 0.2% in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension while providing a safety profile which is consistent with that of the individual components.

UI  - 23385794
TI  - Intraocular pressure lowering is associated with an increase in the photopic negative response (PhNR) amplitude in glaucoma and ocular hypertensive eyes.
AB  - The full-field PhNR amplitude provides a potentially reversible measure of inner retinal function that improves after IOP lowering. Further study now is required to assess its use as a measure of optic nerve health in glaucoma patients.

UI  - 23289904
TI  - Central corneal thickness and glaucoma treatment: an Italian multicenter cross-sectional study.
AB  - No significant difference in CCT was found between patients treated with PGA and TCAI, suggesting that these topical medications did not statistically and clinically change the CCT.

UI  - 23285843
TI  - [Phase III clinical trial of brimonidine in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension--comparison of the effects of brimonidine monotherapy versus timolol monotherapy, or combination brimonidine/prostaglandins therapy versus combination placebo/prostaglandins therapy].
AB  - Topical brimonidine showed an additive IOP-lowering effect to topical PG analogues, although its IOP-lowering effect was inferior to topical timolol as monotherapy.

UI  - 23259919
TI  - Black currant anthocyanins normalized abnormal levels of serum concentrations of endothelin-1 in patients with glaucoma.
AB  - Among the possible beneficial effects of BCACs toward visual field progression in patients with OAG, our present results suggest that BCACs caused normalization of serum ET-1 levels, and this may modulate ET-1-dependent regulation of the ocular blood hemodynamics.

UI  - 23241328
TI  - Effects of SofZia-preserved travoprost and benzalkonium chloride-preserved latanoprost on the ocular surface -- a multicentre randomized single-masked study.
AB  - Switching to SofZia-preserved travoprost after BAK-preserved latanoprost resulted in a lower incidence of keratoconjunctival epitheliopathy, especially in the cornea, with no clinically relevant changes in hyperaemia and IOP.

UI  - 23214487
TI  - [Efficacy and tolerability of preservative-free tafluprost 0.0015 % in the treatment of glaucoma and ocular hypertension].
AB  - Taflotan significantly decreased the intraocular pressure. It was well tolerated even in patients with previous intolerability to another antiglaucomatous therapy, including prostaglandins. The patients and ophthalmologists satisfaction with Taflotan was high.

UI  - 23203707
TI  - Efficacy and safety of preservative-free latanoprost eyedrops, compared with BAK-preserved latanoprost in patients with ocular hypertension or glaucoma.
AB  - Preservative-free latanoprost has the same efficacy as BPL, with improved local tolerance.

UI  - 23161047
TI  - The effect of latanoprost and influence of changes in body position on patients with glaucoma and ocular hypertension.
AB  - Patients with OH and POAG have a larger increase in their IOPSP than do normals. The addition of topical LP partially decreased but did not totally eliminate these pressure increases.

UI  - 23113645
TI  - Subscleral trabeculectomy with mitomycin-C versus ologen for treatment of glaucoma.
AB  - We conclude that the use of the Ologen implant in SST is comparable to the use of MMC with advantage of avoiding the potential dangerous complications related to MMC use in the early (12 months) follow-up period.

UI  - 23078067
TI  - High- versus low-density multifocal pupillographic objective perimetry in glaucoma.
AB  - Presentation rate had little effect, but increasing the tested density from 24 to 44 regions/field improved diagnostic power. Given that multifocal pupillographic objective perimetry also provides information on response delay and afferent versus efferent defects at every visual field region, it may be a useful adjunct to perimetry.

UI  - 23066787
TI  - Association of ocular hypotensive medication types with dynamic contour tonometry and Goldmann applanation tonometry measurements in a glaucoma and ocular hypertensive population.
AB  - The difference between DCT and GAT IOP measurements is found to be statistically significantly higher in patients receiving CAIs either as monotherapy or as a part of a combined ocular hypotensive treatment, while DCT and GAT readings remain unaffected. The type of diagnosis and the number of ocular hypotensive medications had no statistically significant influence on IOP.

UI  - 23065047
TI  - Noncompliance with glaucoma medication in Korean patients: a multicenter qualitative study.
AB  - Physicians should address a patient's complaint of blurred vision resulting from medication. Complete initial explanation of the consequences of nonadherence and of the potential vision loss from glaucoma are critical elements in improving patient adherence in Asian populations.

UI  - 23046438
TI  - Effects of black currant anthocyanins on intraocular pressure in healthy volunteers and patients with glaucoma.
AB  - Our results suggested that oral administration of BCACs may induce a beneficial decrease in IOP levels in healthy subjects as well as in patients with glaucoma.

UI  - 23025424
TI  - Adherence improvement in Dutch glaucoma patients: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Patient education is especially useful for new patients with glaucoma. The use of a drop guider does not improve adherence. Especially patients with 'drug holidays' are at risk for developing uncontrolled IOP levels.

UI  - 23025048
TI  - [Effectiveness of 3-hydroxypyridine and succinic acid derivatives in complex treatment of primary open-angle glaucoma].
AB  - Prospective, placebo-controlled, single-blind, randomized clinical investigation of the influence of domestic 3-hydroxypyridine and succinic acid derivatives (emoxipin, reamberin, mexidol) on the effectiveness of a complex treatment of primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) has been performed in a group of patients. It is established that intravenous infusion of 3-hydroxypyridine derivatives (emoxipin and mexidol) for two weeks, beginning 14 days after the start of POAG treatment, produced a retinoprotective action, with three months postponed changes in the central retinal artery (CRA) blood velocity. The retinoprotective effect of emoxipin (single dose, 150 mg) was manifested by reduction in the horizontal size of blind spot in two weeks, with the subsequent reduction of the CRA end-diastolic blood velocity observed three months after finish of the infusion therapy. The administration of mexidol (single dose, 300 mg) after 14 days of treatment led to widening of the summarized field of vision (test-object square, 16 mm), accompanied by a decrease in the electrosensitivity threshold of the optic nerve and the intensity of POAG-associated hypothymia. All indices of CRA blood velocity increased three months after termination of mexidol infusions. Reamberin (single dose, 400 ml 1,5% solution of reamberine, containing polyelectrolyte and meglumine succinate mixture) did not show retinoprotective action, but caused proatherogenic changes of blood lipids and 3 months postponed CRA end-diastolic blood velocity increase. The effect of mexidol (which is a derivative of both 3- hydroxypyridine and succinic acid) exceeds that of separate 3-hydroxypyridine (emoxipin) and succinic acid (reamberin) derivatives in the degree of retinoprotection and positive effect on the optic nerve condition and mood of POAG patients.

UI  - 23001284
TI  - Three-month evaluation of dorzolamide hydrochloride/timolol maleate fixed-combination eye drops versus the separate use of both drugs.
AB  - The replacement of concomitant treatment with dorzolamide hydrochloride 1 % and timolol maleate 0.5 % eye drops with dorzolamide hydrochloride 1 %/timolol maleate 0.5 % fixed-combination eye drops improved protocol adherence and preserved the IOP.

UI  - 22994106
TI  - [The influence of water soluble antioxidant agent (mexidol) on optic nerve and blood flow velocity in ocular and orbital arteries in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma].
AB  - The prospective single-blind placebo-controlled randomized trial is devoted to influence of mexidol (2-ethil-6-methil-3-hydroxipiridine succinate) on dynamics of optic nerve electrophysiologic profile and velocity indices of blood flow in ocular and orbital arteries in correlation with changes of retinal photosensitivity, visual acuity and visual field size during course of intravenous mexidol infusions and standard treatment of primary open-angle glaucoma. 2 weeks of intravenous infusions of 300 mg mexidol daily was found to cause depression of optic nerve electrical sensitivity threshold and widening of total visual field (16 mm2 test stimulus) after 14 days of treatment. These effects were not associated with changes of blood flow velocity in ocular and orbital arteries, were transient and came to initial indices 3 months after the end of treatment. Delayed vasotropic effect of mexidol manifested in increase of blood flow velocity in central retinal artery in 90 days after the end of infusions.

UI  - 22986112
TI  - The United Kingdom Glaucoma Treatment Study: a multicenter, randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial: design and methodology.
AB  - The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.

UI  - 22986111
TI  - Phacoemulsification versus trabeculectomy in medically uncontrolled chronic angle-closure glaucoma without cataract.
AB  - The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.

UI  - 22790513
TI  - Efficacy of intravitreal bevacizumab with panretinal photocoagulation followed by Ahmed valve implantation in neovascular glaucoma.
AB  - Intravitreal bevacizumab (Avastin) with PRP followed by Ahmed valve implantation appears to be effective in the management of NVG.

UI  - 22775229
TI  - A double-masked randomized crossover study comparing the effect of latanoprost/timolol and brimonidine/timolol fixed combination on intraocular pressure and ocular blood flow in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
AB  - In the present study, a 6-week treatment with LT or BT was equally effective in reducing IOP. In addition, none of the administered drugs induced a significant effect on ocular blood flow parameters.

UI  - 22770575
TI  - Fixed topical combinations in glaucomatous patients and ocular discomfort.
AB  - This work shows the better tolerability of brinzolamide 1% plus timolol 0.5% suspension, compared with dorzolamide 2% plus timolol 0.5% solution. Fortunately, some of the adverse reactions induced by preserved eye drop glaucoma medication are reversible after removing the preservatives. Both the potential for added benefit and patient compliance should be considered when selecting ocular hypotensive therapy.

UI  - 22731246
TI  - Comparison of needle revision with subconjunctival bevacizumab and 5-fluorouracil injection of failed trabeculectomy blebs.
AB  - Subconjunctival 5-FU application is a more effective therapy than bevacizumab application for needling procedures in failed trabeculectomy blebs.

UI  - 22731245
TI  - Oral administration of forskolin and rutin contributes to intraocular pressure control in primary open angle glaucoma patients under maximum tolerated medical therapy.
AB  - Forskolin and rutin given as oral treatment appear to contribute to a better control and a further small reduction of IOP in patients who were poorly responsive to multitherapy treatment.

UI  - 22712537
TI  - Intravitreal ranibizumab as an adjunct for Ahmed valve surgery in open-angle glaucoma: a pilot study.
AB  - The findings from this small pilot comparative study suggest that intravitreal ranibizumab use may be a safe and potentially effective adjunctive treatment modality in improving success after Ahmed tube placement.

UI  - 22706336
TI  - Intraocular pressure-reducing effects of latanoprost versus timolol in chinese patients with chronic angle-closure glaucoma.
AB  - Once-daily administration of latanoprost 0.005% was significantly more effective in reducing IOP in Chinese patients with CACG than twice-daily instillation of timolol 0.5%. Both agents were well tolerated.

UI  - 22696863
TI  - A comparison of 0.1% timolol eye gel and 0.5% timolol eye drop in patients with chronic angle-closure glaucoma.
AB  - Timolol 0.5% eye drop and 0.1% timolol eye gel effectively reduced IOP in chronic angle-closure glaucoma patients. There was no statistically significant difference in the ocular hypotensive effect of both drugs over a 24-hour period. There was no ocular side effect. Systemic side effect was clinically insignificant difference in both groups.

UI  - 22688429
TI  - Impact of a health communication intervention to improve glaucoma treatment adherence. Results of the interactive study to increase glaucoma adherence to treatment trial.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier:NCT00794170.

UI  - 22607109
TI  - A 4-week, dose-ranging study comparing the efficacy, safety and tolerability of latanoprost 75, 100 and 125 g/mL to latanoprost 50 g/mL (xalatan) in the treatment of primary open-angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension.
AB  - Clinical Trials.gov Identifier NCT01379144.

UI  - 22606063
TI  - A prospective study evaluating IOP changes after switching from a therapy with prostaglandin eye drops containing preservatives to nonpreserved tafluprost in glaucoma patients.
AB  - After 3 months of switching tafluprost showed an overall IOP lowering effect similar to others PGAs. When each PGA was compared with tafluprost, bimatoprost showed to provide a statistically significant additional IOP lowering effect.

UI  - 22595934
TI  - An evaluation of therapeutic noninferiority of 0.005% latanoprost ophthalmic solution and xalatan in patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
AB  - This study demonstrates that 0.005% latanoprost ophthalmic solution is noninferior to Xalatan in lowering IOP and is generally well tolerated.

UI  - 22581454
TI  - Efficacy and safety of switching to travoprost/timolol fixed-combination therapy from latanoprost monotherapy.
AB  - Compared to latanoprost monotherapy, TTFC therapy significantly reduced IOP and decreased the heart rate in the patient cohort. No differences were found in terms of patients' impressions.

UI  - 22568428
TI  - A study of initial therapy for glaucoma in southern India: India Glaucoma Outcomes and Treatment (INGOT) Study.
AB  - Trabeculectomy lowered IOP significantly more than medical treatment, but with slightly greater loss of visual acuity. Combined phaco/IOL and trabeculectomy improved visual acuity with substantial IOP lowering.

UI  - 22559867
TI  - Intraocular pressure-lowering effect of 0.005% latanoprost with two different dosing regimens.
AB  - Once every-other-day administration of latanoprost significantly reduced the IOP although the IOP reduction was less pronounced 36-48h after drug application.

UI  - 22549238
TI  - Subclinical increased anterior stromal reflectivity with topical taprenepag isopropyl.
AB  - Anterior stromal reflectivity may remain increased even when biomicroscopic and confocal images of corneal layers remain normal or have recovered after topical taprenepag. This subclinical measure may be useful to detect a persistent adverse effect of a topical agent on the cornea.

UI  - 22458918
TI  - Fixed-combination brimonidine-timolol versus latanoprost in glaucoma and ocular hypertension: a 12-week, randomized, comparison study.
AB  - Fixed-combination brimonidine-timolol was as effective as latanoprost in reducing IOP in patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension. Both treatments demonstrated favorable ocular tolerability. The duration of the study was 12 weeks, and additional studies will be needed to compare the efficacy and safety of fixed-combination brimonidine-timolol and latanoprost during long-term treatment.

UI  - 22411021
TI  - Adherence to glaucoma medication: the effect of interventions and association with personality type.
AB  - Monthly automated telephone reminders, a 1-time educational session, and increased contact with a physician did not improve adherence rate with glaucoma medications. Depression and hypochondriasis personality types were related to poor adherence and highlight the role of psychosocial factors in medication adherence.

UI  - 22399693
TI  - Spanish multicenter tafluprost tolerability study.
AB  - Preservative-free tafluprost is a well tolerated hypotensive agent that can be used in eyes with surface problems and in naive eyes.

UI  - 22377796
TI  - Two-year randomized, placebo-controlled study of black currant anthocyanins on visual field in glaucoma.
AB  - Our results suggest that oral administration of BCACs may be a safe and promising supplement for patients with OAG in addition to antiglaucoma medication.

UI  - 22370470
TI  - Long-term effect of phacoemulsification on intraocular pressure using phakic fellow eye as control.
AB  - No author has a financial or proprietary interest in any material or method mentioned.

UI  - 22335426
TI  - Efficacy of single glaucoma medication in combined latanoprost and timolol XE therapy in patients with open-angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension: a discontinuation study.
AB  - There was a significant increase in IOP from discontinuation of timolol XE and latanoprost. The hypotensive effect of latanoprost in the combined drug therapy is significantly greater compared with timolol XE.

UI  - 22333852
TI  - The influence of central corneal thickness on response to topical prostaglandin analogue therapy.
AB  - We found a statistically significantly association between a lower mean IOP and a thinner cornea when baseline IOP is controlled for. The magnitude of the relationship is small but may be clinically significant in patients with either very thin or very thick corneas.

UI  - 22320418
TI  - Comparison of dorzolamide/timolol and latanoprost/timolol fixed combinations on diurnal intraocular pressure control in primary open-angle glaucoma.
AB  - Mean diurnal IOP and peak IOP were lower with LTFC than with DTFC in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma.

UI  - 22310086
TI  - Randomized clinical trial of the efficacy and safety of preservative-free tafluprost and timolol in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
AB  - The IOP-lowering effect of PF tafluprost was noninferior to that of PF timolol. PF tafluprost is an efficacious and generally well-tolerated ocular hypotensive agent.

UI  - 22283238
TI  - Efficacy of single glaucoma drug in combined timolol XE, latanoprost and brinzolamide therapy: a discontinuation study.
AB  - There was a significant increase in IOP from discontinuation of timolol XE, latanoprost, and brinzolamide in the multiple drug treatment. The hypotensive effect of latanoprost in the combined drug therapy is significantly greater than the effects of timolol XE and brinzolamide.

UI  - 22246943
TI  - Short-term effects of brimonidine/timolol and dorzolamide/timolol on ocular perfusion pressure and blood flow in glaucoma.
AB  - In this cohort of patients with OAG, short-term treatment with brimonidine/timolol and dorzolamide/timolol results in similar effects on OPP and retrobulbar blood flow velocities.

UI  - 22207522
TI  - Comparison of fixed combinations of dorzolamide/timolol and brimonidine/timolol in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma.
AB  - To compare the short-term effectiveness and ocular side-effects of fixed combinations of dorzolamide/timolol (DTFC) and brimonidine/timolol (BTFC) in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG). Forty-two eyes of 42 patients newly diagnosed with primary open-angle glaucoma were assessed prospectively. One of the two eyes was chosen randomly and treated with DTFC (21) for 4weeks. The treatment was then stopped to allow a 4-week wash-out period. Following the wash-out period, the same eye was treated with BTFC (21) for 4weeks. Intraocular pressure (IOP) values were measured before and after each treatment at 0800, 1,200 and 1,600h. Tear function test results and ocular side-effects were also recorded. The mean baseline IOP values for DTFC and BTFC were 24.11.8 and 24.62.4mmHg, respectively. The mean IOP values after 4weeks of treatment with DTFC or BTFC were 17.12.9 and 16.92.5mmHg, respectively. Both medications reduced IOP values significantly (P=0.0000). The effectiveness of both medications was similar (P=0.7363). Both combinations significantly reduced the amount of tear secretion and tear break-up time (P=0.0000). Eye burning was more common with DTFC than with BTFC (P=0.0182). Other adverse effects were observed at similar rates for both combinations. This study demonstrated that the IOP-reducing effects of DTFC and BTFC in patients with POAG are similar. The side-effect profile of BTFC is similar to that of DTFC. Lower occurrence of a burning sensation may improve patient compliance in the BTFC group.

UI  - 22190528
TI  - [Therapeutic effect of compound anisodine for primary open angle glaucoma].
AB  - Compound anisodine can protect optic nerve of POAG through improving the visual function and blood supply of optic nerve.

UI  - 22189825
TI  - [Central corneal thickness and corneal endothelial morphology with and without therapy using commercially available antiglaucomatous drugs].
AB  - Corneal endothelial morphology showed a significant reduction of CD under therapy with BB compared to the no-treatment group. As this was not found on comparing individual medications, it could be a statistical phenomenon of larger counts and thus of secondary clinical concern. Significant differences of CCT were found with antiglaucomatous medications. When adjusting Goldmann tonometry with pachymetry this should be taken into account in order to prevent a misinterpretation of the therapeutic effects of locally applied eye drops.

UI  - 22167541
TI  - Comparison of a travoprost BAK-free formulation preserved with polyquaternium-1 with BAK-preserved travoprost in ocular hypertension or open-angle glaucoma.
AB  - Travoprost BAK-free safely and effectively lowers IOP in eyes with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension. This BAK-free formulation has comparable safety, efficacy, and duration of IOP-lowering effect to travoprost preserved with BAK. Travoprost BAK-free is an effective option for IOP reduction while avoiding BAK exposure.

UI  - 22167539
TI  - Latanoprost 0.005% test formulation is as effective as Xalatan in patients with ocular hypertension and primary open-angle glaucoma.
AB  - Bausch & Lomb latanoprost 0.005% is clinically equivalent to Xalatan for treating OH and POAG as demonstrated through this unique comparative trial.

UI  - 22139613
TI  - Clinical and electrophysiologic outcome in patients with neovascular glaucoma treated with and without bevacizumab.
AB  - This study suggests that intravitreal injection of bevacizumab is valuable in the treatment of NVG by hastening the resolution of neovascularization, while the full-field ERG results indicate that bevacizumab may reduce the photoreceptor function in NVG patients.

UI  - 22131777
TI  - Comparison of the outcome of repeat trabeculectomy with adjunctive mitomycin C and initial trabeculectomy.
AB  - Repeat trabeculectomy with MMC has high success and low complication rates in patients with previously failed trabeculectomy in spite of the need of higher number of anti-glaucoma medications.

UI  - 22110164
TI  - Circadian intraocular pressure and blood pressure reduction with timolol 0.5% solution and timogel 0.1% in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma.
AB  - Both timolol formulations show similar and significant circadian efficacy and have minimal effects on BP and calculated diastolic ocular perfusion pressure.

UI  - 22011049
TI  - Ocular hypotensive effects and safety over 3 months of switching from an unfixed combination to latanoprost 0.005%/timolol maleate 0.5% fixed combination.
AB  - The switch from the concomitant use of latanoprost 0.005% and timolol maleate 0.5% eye drops to latanoprost 0.005%/timolol maleate 0.5% combination eye drops improved adherence and helped maintain IOP.

UI  - 22000272
TI  - The influence of health literacy level on an educational intervention to improve glaucoma medication adherence.
AB  - Providers should consider health literacy skills when engaging in glaucoma education.

UI  - 21995758
TI  - Effect on anterior chamber bevacizumab injection combined with seton implantation in treatment of rubeosis iridis in neovascular glaucoma.
AB  - Significant reduction of NV was observed during the first week. Minimal increasement was seen in third month, significant regression effect persisted for 6 months. BIPC inhibited the peroperative risk of anterior segment bleeding, increased the surgical comfort and prevented the failure of filtration procedure by inhibiting reproliferation.

UI  - 21986850
TI  - Compliance and knowledge about glaucoma in patients at tertiary glaucoma units.
AB  - To document the rate of self-reported compliance and glaucoma-related knowledge in Swiss patients and to identify risk factors for their poor compliance. This was an observational study, including a total of 200 consecutive patients already under glaucoma medication in two Swiss tertiary glaucoma clinics (Geneva and Bern). Personal characteristics, presence of systemic disease, compliance with glaucoma medication, attitude to the ophthalmologist, and glaucoma-related attitudes were ascertained by means of a predetermined questionnaire with 40 questions. Patients were subsequently assessed for the ability to correctly instil placebo eye drops. Non-compliance with glaucoma medication was defined as omitting more than two doses a week as reported by the patient. Logistic regression was used to evaluate how patient characteristics and knowledge about the disease were related to compliance. Overall, 81% (n=162) of patients reported to be compliant. Forgetfulness was the most frequently cited reason for non-compliance with dosing regimen (63%). Although 90.5% (n=181) of patients believed glaucoma medication to be efficient, only 28% (n=56) could correctly define glaucoma. Factors positively associated with compliance were 'knowledge of glaucoma' [adjusted odds ratio (OR) 4.77 (95% CI 1.36-16.70)] and 'getting help for administration of drops' [OR 2.95 (1.25-6.94)]. These findings indicate that despite the comparatively high compliance rate among glaucoma patients, knowledge of glaucoma remains poor in long-term glaucoma sufferers. Improving knowledge about the disease is important since it is positively associated with compliance in our study.

UI  - 21960068
TI  - Twenty-four hour efficacy with the dorzolamide/timolol-fixed combination compared with the brimonidine/timolol-fixed combination in primary open-angle glaucoma.
AB  - Both the fixed combinations significantly reduce 24-hour IOP in POAG. DTFC provided significantly better 24-hour efficacy.

UI  - 21946541
TI  - Morning dosing of once-daily glaucoma medication is more convenient and may lead to greater adherence than evening dosing.
AB  - Early adherence to treatment with a prostaglandin analogue is good, but patients prefer morning administration to evening administration. This may lead to greater adherence with morning administration, particularly among men. Adherence decreases from the first to second month after initiation of treatment. IOP response to this treatment is not significantly affected by morning versus evening administration.

UI  - 21921953
TI  - Biodegradable collagen matrix implant vs mitomycin-C as an adjuvant in trabeculectomy: a 24-month, randomized clinical trial.
AB  - Our results suggest that OLO implant could be a new, safe, and effective alternative to MMC, with similar long-term success rate.

UI  - 21906840
TI  - [Survey of medical treatment in primary open-angle glaucoma].
AB  - Compliance is a dynamic variable which ophthalmologists need to evaluate throughout the follow-up of POAG patients, in order to reduce the prevalence of glaucoma blindness in Bnin.

UI  - 21893261
TI  - [The influence of the Travalert() dosing aid on medical treatment compliance and the quality of life of glaucoma patients].
AB  - Compliance is very important in the treatment of glaucoma, and our study provides objective data through the use of Travalert dosing aid with relative compliances of 70%. Patients with combined therapies have lower compliance than those on monotherapy.

UI  - 21858678
TI  - Randomized crossover study of latanoprost and travoprost in eyes with open-angle glaucoma.
AB  - Travoprost has similar effect as latanoprost in reducing the IOP in glaucoma patients with relatively low IOPs. The use of prostaglandin analogs can decrease the CCT, and this change should be considered when the IOPs obtained by GAT are analyzed.

UI  - 21851642
TI  - Comparative efficacy and safety of the fixed versus unfixed combination of latanoprost and timolol in Chinese patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
AB  - A single evening dose of LTFC was at least as effective as the unfixed combination of latanoprost in the PM and timolol in the AM in reducing IOP in Chinese subjects with POAG or OH whose IOP was insufficiently reduced with -blocker monotherapy or -blocker-based dual therapy. LTFC is an effective and well tolerated once-daily treatment for POAG and OH.

UI  - 21851167
TI  - A phase 2, randomized, dose-response trial of taprenepag isopropyl (PF-04217329) versus latanoprost 0.005% in open-angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension.
AB  - Taprenepag isopropyl significantly reduces IOP in POAG and ocular hypertension. Taprenepag isopropyl monotherapy is comparable to latanoprost 0.005% in reducing IOP. As demonstrated in this report, the activity of taprenepag isopropyl is additive to that of latanoprost 0.005%. Further studies are required to determine whether it shows similar additivity when administered with other ocular antihypertensive medications.

UI  - 21830452
TI  - Safety and efficacy of monotherapy change to fixed combination (travoprost 0.004%/timolol 0.5%) in 6 months follow up period.
AB  - Changing patients from prior monotherapy to TTFC can provide on average a further reduction in IOP, while demonstrating a favorable safety profile.

UI  - 21794845
TI  - Ocular hypotensive effect of the Rho kinase inhibitor AR-12286 in patients with glaucoma and ocular hypertension.
AB  - AR-12286 was well tolerated and provided clinically and statistically significant ocular hypotensive efficacy in patients with ocular hypertension and glaucoma.

UI  - 21790326
TI  - Long-term outcomes of prostaglandin analog versus timolol maleate in ocular hypertensive or primary open-angle glaucoma patients in Europe.
AB  - Patients originally on timolol monotherapy have a lower cost of care over 5 years than those started on a PTG. However, timolol patients during follow-up may demonstrate a higher intraocular pressure, more progression, more medication changes, and lower persistency of the original monotherapy.

UI  - 21789924
TI  - [Adjunctive therapy with brinzolamide in patients on travoprost treatment].
AB  - Brinzolamide 1% (b.i.d) used adjunctively with travoprost 0.004% (q.d.) lowers intraocular pressure significantly compared to travoprost alone. Both drugs were well tolerated and safe in the studied patients.

UI  - 21773673
TI  - Travoprost 0.004%/timolol 0.5% fixed combination in patients transitioning from fixed or unfixed bimatoprost 0.03%/timolol 0.5%.
AB  - Travoprost 0.004%/timolol 0.5% fixed combination produced a significant reduction in IOP, with favorable safety and tolerability profiles. Both patients and investigators strongly preferred TTFC to prior bimatoprost 0.03%/timolol 0.5% therapy.

UI  - 21735753
TI  - [Double-masked, phase III comparative study of the combination ophthalmic solution of the 1% dorzolamide hydrochloride/0.5% timolol maleate (MK-0507A) in patients with glaucoma and ocular hypertension].
AB  - MK-0507A has a significantly superior IOP-lowering effect relative to timolol. MK-0507A also showed a non-inferior IOP-lowering effect relative to the concomitant therapy. MK-0507A was safe compared to both timolol and concomitant therapy.

UI  - 21727997
TI  - Improved prediction of fellow-eye response in one-eye trials using multiple intraocular pressure measurements.
AB  - Using multiple post-treatment IOP measurements may improve the prediction of a fellow eye's response to glaucoma medication in one-eye trials.

UI  - 21725844
TI  - Preservative-free tafluprost 0.0015% in the treatment of patients with glaucoma and ocular hypertension.
AB  - Although this study was limited by its observational design the results demonstrate that preservative-free tafluprost 0.0015% was effective, generally well tolerated, and safe in a broad and heterogeneous patient population.

UI  - 21724262
TI  - Monocular trial of intraocular pressure-lowering medication: a prospective study.
AB  - The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.

UI  - 21717884
TI  - 24-Hour intraocular pressure control between travoprost/timolol fixed combination, latanoprost/ timolol fixed combination and standard timolol in primary open angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension.
AB  - A fixed combination of Travoprost 0.004% and Timolol 0.5% is as effective as a fixed combination of Latanoprost 0.005% and Timolol 0.5% and are better than Timolol 0.5% in 24-hour IOP control.

UI  - 21716127
TI  - Effect of beclomethasone nasal spray on intraocular pressure in ocular hypertension or controlled glaucoma.
AB  - Patients with ocular hypertension and primary open-angle glaucoma showed no evidence of IOP elevation after 6 weeks use of beclomethasone nasal spray.

UI  - 21705689
TI  - Ocular hypotensive effect of oral palmitoyl-ethanolamide: a clinical trial.
AB  - Systemic administration of PEA reduces IOP in patients with glaucoma and ocular hypertension. PEA could be a valuable tool for the treatment of glaucoma (http://www.umin.ac.jp/ctr/index/htm number, UMIN000002833).

UI  - 21705084
TI  - Adjusting intraocular pressure for central corneal thickness does not improve prediction models for primary open-angle glaucoma.
AB  - The calculation of individual risk for developing POAG in ocular hypertensive individuals is simpler and equally accurate using IOP and CCT as measured, rather than applying an adjustment formula to correct IOP for CCT.

UI  - 21701528
TI  - Travoprost 0.004%/timolol 0.5%-fixed combination with and without benzalkonium chloride: a prospective, randomized, doubled-masked comparison of safety and efficacy.
AB  - Travoprost/timolol BAK-free demonstrated equivalence to travoprost/timolol preserved with BAK in efficacy. No clinically relevant differences in the safety profiles of travoprost/timolol BAK-free and travoprost/timolol preserved with BAK were identified.

UI  - 21680022
TI  - Comparison of latanoprost and timolol in pediatric glaucoma: a phase 3, 12-week, randomized, double-masked multicenter study.
AB  - Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.

UI  - 21679090
TI  - From dorzolamide 2%/timolol 0.5% to brinzolamide 1%/timolol 0.5% fixed combination: a 6-month, multicenter, open-label tolerability switch study.
AB  - Brinzolamide/timolol FC is associated with reduced topical discomfort and improved signs of ocular surface disease. The good tolerability and comfort of this FC might contribute to good patient adherence.

UI  - 21668980
TI  - A multicenter, retrospective chart review study comparing index therapy change rates in open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension patients newly treated with latanoprost or travoprost-Z monotherapy.
AB  - In this "real world" study of changes in therapy in patients prescribed initial monotherapy with latanoprost with BAK or travoprost-Z with SofZia, medication changes were common in both treatment groups but statistically significantly more frequent with travoprost-Z.

UI  - 21600658
TI  - Intraocular pressure control and long-term visual field loss in the Collaborative Initial Glaucoma Treatment Study.
AB  - These results support considering more aggressive treatment when undue elevation or variation in IOP measures is observed.

UI  - 21568077
TI  - [Prevention of intraocular pressure elevation after argon laser trabeculoplasty in primary open angle glaucoma].
AB  - A single preoperative drop of brimonidine 0.2% had similar efficacy and safety as apraclonidine 0.5% in preventing transient IOP elevations after ALT.

UI  - 21543992
TI  - Selective laser trabeculoplasty versus medical therapy as initial treatment of glaucoma: a prospective, randomized trial.
AB  - IOP reduction was similar in both arms after 9 to 12-months follow-up. More treatment steps were necessary to maintain target IOP in the medication group, although there was not a statistically significant difference between groups. These results support the option of SLT as a safe and effective initial therapy in open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension.

UI  - 21515561
TI  - Impact of eyelid closure on the intraocular pressure lowering effect of prostaglandins: a randomised controlled trial.
AB  - ELC did not provide significant additional IOP reduction compared with no ELC in patients using chronic prostaglandin monotherapy. Trial Registration http://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT0083283.

UI  - 21499770
TI  - Timolol versus brinzolamide added to travoprost in glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
AB  - Both adjunctive combinations moderately reduced IOP in patients inadequately controlled with travoprost monotherapy, with timolol being slightly stronger 8 hours after instillation. Adjunctive treatment with brinzolamide and travoprost may be an alternative for patients not tolerant or not responsive to treatment with timolol and travoprost.

UI  - 21499083
TI  - The comparison of the effects of latanoprost, travoprost, and bimatoprost on central corneal thickness.
AB  - Topical therapy with prostaglandin analogues is associated with CCT reduction. Latanoprost, travoprost, and bimatoprost have a similar effect on CCT.

UI  - 21426839
TI  - [Comparison of intraocular pressure reducing effects of three prostaglandin eyedrops in open-angle glaucoma].
AB  - This study demonstrated that latanoprost, travoprost and bimatoprost are all effective in reducing IOP over the 24-hour curve in primary open-angle glaucoma. On the basis of our data, there was no statistically significant difference in the IOP reduction between these three drugs.

UI  - 21423036
TI  - Silicone Ahmed glaucoma valve with and without intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide for neovascular glaucoma: randomized clinical trial.
AB  - Intravitreal injection of triamcinolone acetonide in neovascular glaucoma did not affect the intermediate-term success of the silicone Ahmed valve nor reduce the incidence of complications. The mean IOP spike in the first month was lower in the triamcinolone group.

UI  - 21416707
TI  - [Clinical trial of the generic product UNILAT following its efficiency and safety in glaucoma and intraocular hypertension].
AB  - The authors introduce UNILAT, a new generic product from UNIMED PHARMA Ltd., a Slovak pharmaceutical company. Within the Phase III. of clinical trial they evaluate UNILATes efficacy and safety in the treatment of glaucoma and intraocular hypertension. The clinical study design was performed as an open comparative multicenter trial. Its goal was to compare the UNILAT generic product (latanoprost 50 microg/ml, eye drops solution, Unimed Pharma) with XALATAN original product (latanoprost 50 microg/ml, eye drops solution, Pfizer) and to prove that UNILAT is as effective and safe as original product. The study was performed on 77 subjects in seven private ophthalmic outpatient departments in Slovakia during the period from February 5, 2008 till July 24, 2008. The primary endpoint specified to prove UNILAT's efficacy was the average decrease of IOP measured between the first and last visit. The secondary endpoint was proportion of patients with measured IOP less than 21 mmHg at the end of the clinical trial. The safety of the generic product was based on the frequency of adverse reactions in subjects included in the study. Results of clinical study have confirmed UNILAT's therapeutical indications and demonstrated that it is non-inferior to the original product concerning efficacy and safety in the treatment of glaucoma and ocular hypertension.

UI  - 21385109
TI  - Signs and symptoms of ocular surface status in glaucoma patients switched from timolol 0.5% to brinzolamide 1%/timolol 0.5% fixed combination: a 6-month efficacy and tolerability, multicenter, open-label prospective study.
AB  - Brinz/Tim FC is effective and well tolerated. In this study, patients switched to Brinz/Tim FC obtained further reduction in IOP with no effects on ocular surface status and improved quality of life perception: a better quality of life could determine a better adherence to prescribed therapy.

UI  - 21361083
TI  - Efficacy and safety of topical travoprost with sofzia preservative for Japanese glaucoma patients.
AB  - The purpose of this study is to evaluate the intraocular pressure (IOP) -lowering effect and safety of topical travoprost with sofzia and without benzalkonium chloride on Japanese patients with glaucoma. Topical travoprost (0.04%) was used on 39 glaucoma patients with no prior use of topical prostaglandin F2alpha analogues (Beginning group). The IOP, number of conjunctival follicules, degrees of conjunctival hyperemia, and degrees of superficial punctate keratitis (SPK, AD-classification) were determined at the beginning of the treatment and after 1 month and 3 months. 37 other patients who were using 0.005% topical latanoprost were switched to 0.04% topical travoprost and analyzed in the same way (Switched group). For the Beginning group, the IOP was significantly decreased after 3 months (p < 0.0001). The conjunctival follicule score was decreased significantly (p = 0.033). Both the SPK area score and density score for the cases with SPK at the baseline decreased significantly (p = 0.034 and p = 0.024). In the switched group, the IOP was not changed significantly at 3 months after the switch (p = 0.118). Both the conjunctival follicule and hyperemia score were significantly decreased at 3 month (p = 0.0074 and p = 0.0047). The SPK area score for the cases with SPK at the time of switch decreased significantly (p = 0.013). Travoprost with sofzia preservative had an equal effect in reducing the IOP as latanoprost. It had low toxicity on the ocular surface of Japanese glaucoma patients.

UI  - 21336155
TI  - A 12-week, double-masked, parallel-group study of the safety and efficacy of travoprost 0.004% compared with pilocarpine 1% in Chinese patients with primary angle-closure and primary angle-closure glaucoma.
AB  - Travoprost 0.004% once daily provides effective IOP-lowering efficacy with significantly greater IOP reduction from baseline when compared with pilocarpine 1% 4 times daily at 4 PM over the 12-week period. Travoprost 0.004% once daily is safe and well tolerated in PAC or PACG patients.

UI  - 21320958
TI  - Trabeculectomy with mitomycin for open-angle glaucoma in phakic vs pseudophakic eyes after phacoemulsification.
AB  - Previous phacoemulsification is a prognostic factor for surgical failure of trabeculectomy with mitomycin for open-angle glaucoma.

UI  - 21296214
TI  - [Handiness and acceptability of the new Abak bottle in chronically treated patients. A cross-sectional, retrospective and multicentre study].
AB  - The new Abak bottle had a greater acceptability compared to preserved multidose eyedrops or to single-doses. Its handiness and the absence of preservative which may improve local tolerance are in favor of a greater compliance in chronically treated patients.

UI  - 21278589
TI  - Long-term effect of BAK-free travoprost on ocular surface and intraocular pressure in glaucoma patients after transition from latanoprost.
AB  - Treatment for 12 months with BAK-free travoprost after BAK-preserved latanoprost resulted in fewer ocular surface complications, as indicated by the reduced prevalence of SPK and decreased hyperemia, and no clinically relevant changes in IOP. BAK-free travoprost may have beneficial effects on the ocular surface while showing IOP-lowering efficacy comparable with BAK-preserved eye drops.

UI  - 21223530
TI  - Intraocular pressure and ocular hemodynamics in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma treated with the combination of morning dosing of bimatoprost and dorzolamide hydrochloride.
AB  - Adjunctive dorzolamide therapy to morning-dosed bimatoprost 0.03% reduced diurnal IOP and vascular resistance in the ophthalmic artery but did not alter retinal circulation in this group of patients with POAG.

UI  - 21141322
TI  - Effectiveness of intra-operative and post-operative use of 5-fluorouracil in trabeculectomy--a randomized clinical trial.
AB  - The intra-operative and post-operative use of 5-FU in trabeculectomy is almost equally effective in terms of IOP control and bleb characteristics.

UI  - 21141077
TI  - [Long-acting carteolol hydrochloride 2% ophthalmic solution phase IV study--investigation of the effectiveness, safety and plasma concentration].
AB  - The IOP reduction effect of the LA group was the same as the CA group. This study suggests that long-acting treatment with alginic acid can be useful for reducing systemic side effects.

UI  - 21132129
TI  - Observational study of patients switched to the fixed travoprost 0.004%/timolol 0.5% combination in Croatia.
AB  - The purpose of this study was to assess both the benefits of a 3-month travoprost 0.004%/timolol 0.5%fixed combination (trav/tim) regimen in comparison with previous medications for the control of intraocular pressure (IOP) and the tolerability of these drug regimens in glaucoma patients. An observational, non-interventional, open-label study of 406 eyes with primary open angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension was thus undertaken. One drop of trav/tim fixed combination was administered in the evening for 3 months. Patients were divided into five groups according to previous drug regimens: timolol 0.5% monotherapy; betaxolol 0.5% monotherapy; latanoprost 0.005% monotherapy; travoprost 0.004% monotherapy; and dorzolamide 2%/timolol 0.5% fixed combination. Upon medication substitution, the trav/tim fixed combination provided better IOP control and tolerability in all five patient groups. At the 3-month follow up, the mean IOP changes from previous therapy were as follows: 5.2  2.7 mmHg (20.8% change) in timolol 0.5% group; 5.7  2.2 mmHg (22.5% change) in betaxolol 0.5% group; 3.8  2.6 mmHg (24.5% change) in latanoprost 0.005% group; 4.4  2.8 mmHg (20% change) in travoprost 0.004% group; and 3.4  4.1 mmHg (14.5% change) in dorzolamide 2%/timolol 0.5% fixed combination group. The difference between baseline and trav/tim combination patient satisfaction at the 3-month follow-up was significant. Thus, the trav/tim fixed combination provided better IOP control and tolerability than previous mono- or polytherapies.

UI  - 21111399
TI  - Control of intraocular pressure and fluctuation with fixed-combination brimonidine-timolol versus brimonidine or timolol monotherapy.
AB  - Patients treated with fixed-combination brimonidine-timolol were more likely than patients treated with either brimonidine or timolol alone to achieve a combination of low mean IOP and low short-term (daily) or long-term (intervisit) IOP fluctuation.

UI  - 21106046
TI  - Adherence with brimonidine in patients with glaucoma aware and not aware of electronic monitoring.
AB  - The study findings suggest that adherence measurements are not significantly altered by open adherence monitoring, which may simplify future adherence studies. Adherence with brimonidine eye drops was insufficient for most patients. These results demonstrate the necessity to develop new strategies to improve compliance in glaucoma therapy.

UI  - 21070547
TI  - Plasma and aqueous humour levels of ghrelin in open-angle glaucoma patients.
AB  - Aqueous humour levels of ghrelin were significantly lower in open-angle glaucoma patients, compared with controls. This difference may manifest a role of ghrelin in the disease process or a consequence of antiglaucoma treatment.

UI  - 21048514
TI  - Efficacy and tolerability of topical 0.05% flunarizine in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension-a pilot study.
AB  - The absence of a statistically significant difference in IOP reduction between the 2 groups may be due to the small number of patients included. However, a single dose of 0.05% flunarizine significantly reduced IOP when compared with baseline values, whereas this was not observed with placebo.

UI  - 21048510
TI  - Prevalence and correlates of self-reported nonadherence with eye drop treatment: the Belgian Compliance Study in Ophthalmology (BCSO).
AB  - The prevalence of self-reported nonadherence was congruent with literature. The patients visiting their ophthalmologists at least every 3 months have a lower risk of nonadherence. Ophthalmologist report is an insensitive method for detecting nonadherence.

UI  - 21048508
TI  - Twenty-four-hour intraocular pressure control with latanoprost-timolol-fixed combination versus bimatoprost in patients who switched from timolol.
AB  - The LTFC and bimatoprost therapies were equally effective in maintaining IOP at lower levels during the 24-hour period in patients who switched from timolol therapy. Adverse events were more frequent with bimatoprost therapy.

UI  - 21048504
TI  - Intraocular pressure-lowering efficacy of brinzolamide when added to travoprost/timolol fixed combination as adjunctive therapy.
AB  - This study suggests that brinzolamide may be safely added to TTFC therapy to provide further significant reduction in IOP patients with ocular hypertensive or primary open-angle glaucoma.

UI  - 21034177
TI  - Bimatoprost versus travoprost in an Egyptian population: a hospital-based prospective, randomized study.
AB  - Both drops lowered IOP effectively but bimatoprost showed a greater non-significant reductions in mean IOP from baseline.

UI  - 21029020
TI  - Hyperemia reduction after administration of a fixed combination of bimatoprost and timolol maleate to patients on prostaglandin or prostamide monotherapy.
AB  - A significant reduction in hyperemia was found after switching from monotherapy with prostaglandins or prostamide to a fixed combination of prostamide and a -blocker. IOP reduction was significant after the intervention in all 3 groups.

UI  - 20977366
TI  - Efficacy and tolerability of preservative-free eye drops containing a fixed combination of dorzolamide and timolol in glaucoma patients.
AB  - This observational study confirms the IOP lowering effect of preservative-free eye drops containing the fixed combination of dorzolamide/timolol in a large patient's population. The drug was well tolerated and improved the local tolerability in the vast majority of patients.

UI  - 20977071
TI  - Comparison of evening and morning dosing of travoprost 0.004%/timolol 0.5% fixed combination in 6 month period.
AB  - An open label, multi-center, 6 months observational study of new fixed combination (travoprost 0.004%/timolol 0.5%), in order to evaluate both efficacy (intraocular pressure lowering) and tolerability (patient and investigator satisfaction) of two dosing regimens--evening (PM) and morning (AM). After screening for enrollment, to 40 patients (79 eyes with primary open angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension), new fixed combination travoprost 0.004%/timolol 0.5% was prescribed once a day in the evening (PM). Patients were enrolled according to each investigator decision on indication for travoprost 0.004%/timolol 0.5% fixed combination once a day, without washout period after previous medication. Intraocular pressure was measured at 9 AM at all time control points: at baseline, after 1 month, after 3 months and after 6 month. After 1 month, screening for nonresponders (criteria: 20% intraocular pressure lowering) and subjects with major side effects was performed. At second control visit, after 3 months PM dosing, intraocular pressure was measured and patients were instructed to continue once a day the same medication, but in the morning (AM) for consequent 3 months. After 1 month, reduction in mean intraocular pressure value was 21.66%. At the visit after 3 month, the mean intraocular pressure was 15.67 +/- 2.17 mm Hg (reduction 21.14%). 3 month after dosing regimen changed to AM (6 month after beginning of travoprost 0.004%/timolol 0.5% combination therapy), reduction in intraocular pressure value was 19.86%. The differences (mean +/- standard deviation) in intraocular pressure values after 1, 3 and 6 month were all highly statistically significant compared to baseline values. The tolerability was evaluated in five steps (Likert scale) ranging from unsatisfactory to excellent by both patient and investigator--taken at 3 and 6 month control visit. 95% of patients and 100% of investigators were satisfied with the possibility of choosing dosing regimen for travoprost 0.004%/timolol 0.5% fixed combination. Travoprost 0.004%/timolol 0.5% fixed combination proved sufficient intraocular pressure control dosed either PM or AM with no statistically significant difference between two dosing regimens. Possibility to choose between two dosing regimens gives each practitioner additional reassurance that glaucoma therapy will be individualised to needs of each patient.

UI  - 20874499
TI  - Bimatoprost 0.03% versus brimonidine 0.2% in the prevention of intraocular pressure spike following neodymium:yttriumaluminumgarnet laser posterior capsulotomy.
AB  - Our results indicate that prophylactic use of bimatoprost 0.03% is more effective than brimonidine 0.2% in preventing IOP elevation immediately after YAG laser capsulotomy. Bimatoprost 0.03% as a prostamide analog may provide new option for preventing IOP elevation after YAG laser capsulotomy.

UI  - 20872359
TI  - Effects of osmoprotection on symptoms, ocular surface damage, and tear film modifications caused by glaucoma therapy.
AB  - This study demonstrates for the first time that the use of concomitant CMCs in the management of glaucoma undergoing treatment with BB or PG may assist in tear film production and could lead to better compliance with intraocular pressure-lowering medication and ultimately better prognosis.

UI  - 20852438
TI  - Measurement of adherence to brimonidine therapy for glaucoma using electronic monitoring.
AB  - Individual adherence with brimonidine was highly variable and pharmacologically insufficient for more than two-third of the patients. Special attention should be paid to compliance of patients with normal-tension glaucoma. Our findings underline the need to improve individual adherence and drug delivery in topical glaucoma therapy.

UI  - 20825668
TI  - Long-term effect of latanoprost/timolol fixed combination in patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension: a prospective, observational, noninterventional study.
AB  - Over 24 months, latanoprost/timolol FC effectively lowers IOP levels and is well tolerated in patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension who change from their previous ocular hypotensive therapy for medical reasons. Investigator assessments found optic disc parameters and visual field to be stable throughout 24 months of follow-up.

UI  - 20819599
TI  - Intraocular pressure lowering efficacy and safety of travoprost 0.004% as a replacement therapy in patients with open angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
AB  - In patients treated with other hypotensive medications or untreated, the IOP reduction with travoprost was significant. The results of this study demonstrated the potential benefit of using travoprost as a replacement therapy in order to ensure adequate IOP control. Travoprost administered once daily was safe and well tolerated in patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension.

UI  - 20813123
TI  - The impact of intraocular pressure reduction on retinal ganglion cell function measured using pattern electroretinogram in eyes receiving latanoprost 0.005% versus placebo.
AB  - Twenty percent IOP reduction using latanoprost monotherapy is not associated with improvement in RGC function measured with PERGLA.

UI  - 20733558
TI  - A prospective randomised trial of trabeculectomy using mitomycin C vs an ologen implant in open angle glaucoma.
AB  - The complete success rate using trabeculectomy with the ologen implant is lower than that achieved by trabeculectomy with MMC. However, the bleb morphology caused more problems in the MMC group (avascularity score).

UI  - 20717049
TI  - Adjunctive use of bevacizumab versus mitomycin C with Ahmed valve implantation in treatment of pediatric glaucoma.
AB  - The adjunctive use of bevacizumab or mitomycin C during Ahmed valve implantation significantly enhances the valve survival and the first drug seems to be much safer with no visually devastating complications.

UI  - 20698715
TI  - Visual field protective effect of Erigeron breviscapus (vant.) Hand. Mazz. extract on glaucoma with controlled intraocular pressure: a randomized, double-blind, clinical trial.
AB  - EBHM extract may have a partial protective effect on the visual field of glaucoma patients with controlled IOP. Further studies are needed to determine the safety and effectiveness of long-term EBHM treatment.

UI  - 20688314
TI  - Comparison of Travoprost and Bimatoprost plus timolol fixed combinations in open-angle glaucoma patients previously treated with latanoprost plus timolol fixed combination.
AB  - Bimatoprost plus timolol and travoprost plus timolol can provide additional IOP-lowering effect in patients not fully controlled with latanoprost plus timolol. The observed additional IOP reduction was greater with bimatoprost plus timolol with a similar tolerability profile.

UI  - 20673200
TI  - Comparison of the effects of dorzolamide/timolol and latanoprost/timolol fixed combinations upon intraocular pressure and progression of visual field damage in primary open-angle glaucoma.
AB  - Both treatments significantly reduced IOP as compared with baseline. Additionally, treatment with dorzolamide/timolol fixed combination seem to be effective in preventing glaucomatous visual field progression. This study has some limitations that should be noted, among them its open-label design.

UI  - 20651749
TI  - 24-h Intraocular pressure control with evening-dosed travoprost/timolol, compared with latanoprost/timolol, fixed combinations in exfoliative glaucoma.
AB  - This study suggests that evening-dosed TTFC may provide greater 24-h IOP reduction, primarily at the 1800 hours time point, compared with LTFC in XFG.

UI  - 20578283
TI  - Ocular surface tolerability of prostaglandin analogs in patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
AB  - There were no significant differences among bimatoprost (preserved with 0.005% BAK), latanoprost (preserved with 0.02% BAK), and travoprost (preserved with sofZia) in objective clinical measures of ocular tolerability, including physician-graded hyperemia, corneal staining, and TBUT after 3 months of treatment. Longer-term studies are needed to further evaluate the ocular surface tolerability of these prostaglandin analogs.

UI  - 20577116
TI  - The influence of topical diclofenac sodium on the ocular hypotensive effect of latanoprost in glaucoma patients.
AB  - Topical diclofenac sodium may interfere with the IOP lowering effect of latanoprost in glaucoma patients; therefore this interference should be noted in coadministration of these drugs.

UI  - 20577103
TI  - The effect of early posttrabeculectomy intraocular pressure spike in the collaborative initial glaucoma treatment study.
AB  - Among Collaborative Initial Glaucoma Treatment Study patients, early posttrabeculectomy IOP spike 5 mm Hg above baseline IOP was not associated with subsequent VF loss, but was associated with significantly higher IOP during long-term follow-up.

UI  - 20570237
TI  - Bleb morphology and vascularity after trabeculectomy with intravitreal ranibizumab: a pilot study.
AB  - Combination intravitreal ranibizumab and topical MMC at time of trabeculectomy resulted in more diffuse blebs with less vascularity when compared to use of topical MMC alone. Further studies are planned to better understand the utility of anti-vascular endothelial growth factor agents as modulators of wound healing post trabeculectomy.

UI  - 20558428
TI  - The additive effect of dorzolamide hydrochloride (Trusopt) and a morning dose of bimatoprost (Lumigan) on intraocular pressure and retrobulbar blood flow in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma.
AB  - The addition of dorzolamide to morning-dosed bimatoprost had an additive hypotensive effect only on the night-time IOP curve at 4:00 h and resulted in a lower IOP fluctuation. Dorzolamide added to bimatoprost may reduce vascular resistance in the OA.

UI  - 20556928
TI  - The combination latanoprost-timolol versus twice daily 0.50% timolol administration either associated or not with latanoprost: efficacy and tolerability in the primary open-angle glaucoma.
AB  - The once daily latanoprost-timolol combination was shown to furtherly reduce the Intraocular Pressure (IOP) (p=0.001) and to maintain under control the intraocular pressure for the observation period (24 months). Both topical and systemic side-effects were scarse and tolerability was good.

UI  - 20553122
TI  - IOP-lowering efficacy and tolerability of preservative-free tafluprost 0.0015% among patients with ocular hypertension or glaucoma.
AB  - Although this study was limited by its observational design, the results demonstrate that preservative-free tafluprost is an effective, well tolerated, and safe medication in a patient population with poor IOP control and/or tolerability issues with their medication prior used.

UI  - 20546237
TI  - Switching from a preserved to a preservative-free prostaglandin preparation in topical glaucoma medication.
AB  - Preservative-free tafluprost maintained IOP at the same level as latanoprost, but was better tolerated in patients having signs or symptoms while on preserved latanoprost. Preservative-free tafluprost treatment resulted in improved QoL, increased patient satisfaction and drop comfort.

UI  - 20544681
TI  - Is there any difference in target intraocular pressure for exfoliative glaucoma patients with cardiovascular disease history?
AB  - Although IOP is the main determinant of progression in XFG under treatment, history of severe CVD should be further investigated as potential risk factor for glaucomatous progression.

UI  - 20543630
TI  - Goldmann applanation tonometry and dynamic contour tonometry after treatment with prostaglandin analog/prostamide.
AB  - 

UI  - 20520568
TI  - Five-year, multicenter safety study of fixed-combination latanoprost/timolol (Xalacom) for open-angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension.
AB  - After 5 years, more than 70% of participants treated with fixed-combination latanoprost/timolol had no increased iris pigmentation. The fixed combination is safe and well tolerated for long-term treatment in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension.

UI  - 20456437
TI  - Comparative study of three prostaglandin analogues in the treatment of newly diagnosed cases of ocular hypertension, open-angle and normal tension glaucoma.
AB  - All the three topical prostaglandin analogues are effective at lowering IOP, but bimatoprost was found to be most effective in the initial phase of the trial, and there was no statistically significant difference in the efficacy, among the three prostaglandin analogue eye drops after 6 months of treatment.

UI  - 20437244
TI  - Comparison of the efficacy and tolerability of preservative-free and preservative-containing formulations of the dorzolamide/timolol fixed combination (COSOPT) in patients with elevated intraocular pressure in a randomized clinical trial.
AB  - In patients with elevated IOP, PF and PC dorzolamide/timolol were equivalent in efficacy for change in trough and peak IOP, and had generally similar tolerability.

UI  - 20429818
TI  - Comparison of ocular hypotensive actions of fixed combinations of brimonidine/timolol and dorzolamide/timolol.
AB  - Reductions from baseline in mean diurnal IOP and morning IOP were greater with BrTFC than with DTFC.

UI  - 20420586
TI  - Efficacy and safety of tafluprost 0.0015% versus latanoprost 0.005% eye drops in open-angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension: 24-month results of a randomized, double-masked phase III study.
AB  - Tafluprost is a new effective and well-tolerated treatment for glaucoma and ocular hypertension.

UI  - 20394542
TI  - Comparing anatomical pattern of topical anti-glaucoma medications associated lacrimal obstruction with a control group.
AB  - Although punctum and canaliculus are the main anatomical sites of LDSO associated with topical AGM, common canaliculus and nasolacrimal duct separately or in association with punctum and canaliculus may also be involved.

UI  - 20386433
TI  - Prevalence of ocular surface complaints in patients with glaucoma using topical intraocular pressure-lowering medications.
AB  - OSD is prevalent among medically treated patients with glaucoma. The severity of OSD symptoms is positively correlated to the number of IOP-lowering medications used.

UI  - 20382428
TI  - Preoperative nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug or steroid and outcomes after trabeculectomy: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.

UI  - 20346780
TI  - Twelve-month, randomized, controlled trial of bimatoprost 0.01%, 0.0125%, and 0.03% in patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
AB  - Bimatoprost 0.01% was equivalent to bimatoprost 0.03% in lowering IOP throughout 12 months of treatment and demonstrated improved tolerability, including less frequent and severe conjunctival hyperemia. Bimatoprost 0.01% demonstrated a better benefit-to-risk ratio than bimatoprost 0.0125%.

UI  - 20346127
TI  - Predictors of additional intraocular pressure reduction in patients changed to latanoprost/timolol fixed combination.
AB  - These results support the use of latanoprost/timolol FC in patients whose IOP is insufficiently controlled on beta-blocker monotherapy. Patients with higher baseline IOP levels and who do not experience adverse events while on therapy are most likely to achieve a positive response to latanoprost/timolol FC.

UI  - 20214051
TI  - The efficacy and safety of two fixed combinations: timolol-dorzolamide-brimonidine versus timolol-dorzolamide. A prospective, randomized, double-masked, multi-center, 6-month clinical trial.
AB  - We compared the efficacy and safety of a new fixed combination of timolol 0.5%/odorzolamide 20%/brimonidine 0.2% in ophthalmic solution versus a fixed combination of timolol 0.5%/dorzolamide 2% in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension. The fixed triple combination was significantly more efficient in mean intraocular pressure reduction from baseline throughout the six-month follow-up.

UI  - 20207417
TI  - Effect of patient-centered communication training on discussion and detection of nonadherence in glaucoma.
AB  - Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.

UI  - 20202537
TI  - Phacoemulsification versus phacoemulsification with micro-bypass stent implantation in primary open-angle glaucoma: randomized double-masked clinical trial.
AB  - Phacoemulsification with stent implantation was more effective in controlling IOP than phacoemulsification alone; the safety profiles were similar.

UI  - 20181282
TI  - First-line latanoprost therapy in ocular hypertension or open-angle glaucoma patients: a 3-month efficacy analysis stratified by initial intraocular pressure.
AB  - NCT00647101.

UI  - 20163264
TI  - Monitoring adherence rates in glaucoma patients using the Travatan Dosing Aid. A 6-month study comparing patients on travoprost 0.004% and patients on travoprost 0.004%/timolol 0.5% fixed combination.
AB  - The typical nonadherent patient is elderly. TDA records indicate that only a minority of patients are really adherent: predictive models to screen for poor adherence are needed.

UI  - 20151269
TI  - Effects of switching to SofZia-preserved travoprost in patients who presented with superficial punctate keratopathy while under treatment with latanoprost.
AB  - Switching to TRV improved SPK observed in a population using LAT, likely because of a decrease in exposure to BAC.

UI  - 20148656
TI  - A phase II study on the duration and stability of the intraocular pressure-lowering effect and tolerability of Tafluprost compared with latanoprost.
AB  - Tafluprost and latanoprost have comparable effects on the extent, duration, and stability of IOP reduction, and are well tolerated in patients.

UI  - 20142538
TI  - Fixed combination of latanoprost and timolol vs individual components for primary open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension: a randomized, double-masked study.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier NCT00277498.

UI  - 20122146
TI  - Scoring and psychometric properties of the Eye-Drop Satisfaction Questionnaire (EDSQ), an instrument to assess satisfaction and compliance with glaucoma treatment.
AB  - The scoring of the EDSQ was developed and the questionnaire proved to have satisfactory psychometric properties. EDSQ scores showed a promising relationship to compliance profiles. The EDSQ could be used in future studies.

UI  - 20099236
TI  - A 12-week, randomized, double-masked study of fixed combination latanoprost/timolol versus latanoprost or timolol monotherapy.
AB  - This 12-week, randomized, double-masked study was designed to overcome potential shortcomings of previous trials. We enrolled 788 subjects with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension treated with a beta-blocker for > or = 4 weeks before screening. After washout, 500 subjects with a baseline mean intraocular pressure (IOP) > or = 26 and < 37 mmHg were randomized to fixed combination latanoprost-timolol in the evening (n = 170), latanoprost monotherapy in the evening (n = 165), or timolol monotherapy in the morning (n = 165). At weeks 2, 6, and 12, each subject's IOP level was measured in triplicate at 8 AM (predose), 10 AM, and 4 PM in each eye. Adverse events were monitored throughout. The statistical superiority of the fixed combination for the 18 pairwise comparisons with the 2 monotherapies was evaluated (analysis of variance). RESULTS. The statistical superiority of the fixed combination was demonstrated at 7/9 time points versus latanoprost and 9/9 time points versus timolol. Mean diurnal IOP levels were similar at baseline but significantly lower with the fixed combination than with either monotherapy at weeks 6 and 12 (each p < 0.05). Patients treated with the fixed combination were significantly more likely than those treated with either monotherapy to reach prespecified percent IOP reductions at the upper thresholds and to achieve very low target diurnal IOP levels. All therapies were well tolerated. CONCLUSIONS. Fixed combination latanoprost/timolol safely reduces IOP levels in patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension, though only slightly more than does latanoprost monotherapy.

UI  - 20051890
TI  - Prostaglandin efficacy and safety study undertaken by race (the PRESSURE study).
AB  - All 3 prostaglandin/amide drugs are highly effective at lowering IOP. No differences in effect between the drugs or between members of different racial groups were detected, although the study sample size was too small to be certain to detect differences, if they existed.

UI  - 20028263
TI  - Comparative study of topical application of timolol and verapamil in patients with glaucoma within 6 months.
AB  - It seems that topical verapamil has a similar effect to timolol in patients with open-angle glaucoma, so it can be considered as a lowering intraocular pressure agent in glaucoma patients.

UI  - 20028261
TI  - Fixed-combination brimonidine/timolol as adjunctive therapy to a prostaglandin analog: a 3-month, open-label, replacement study in glaucoma patients.
AB  - For patients on multiple-drug therapy including a PGA, replacement of dorzolamide/timolol with brimonidine/timolol may help achieve a lower IOP, while replacement of brimonidine plus dorzolamide/timolol with brimonidine/timolol may help achieve as low an IOP with fewer medications.

UI  - 20019759
TI  - Efficacy and safety of fixed combinations of latanoprost/timolol and dorzolamide/timolol in open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
AB  - When beta-blocker therapy is inadequate, either FC may achieve the desired IOP level, but FC latanoprost/timolol more often achieves a pressure of <or=16 mm Hg. Both FCs were well tolerated.

UI  - 19922877
TI  - Short-term tolerability of once-daily timolol hemihydrate 0.5%, timolol maleate in sorbate 0.5%, and generic timolol maleate gel-forming solution 0.5% in glaucoma and/or ocular hypertension: a prospective, randomized, double-masked, active-controlled, three-period crossover pilot study.
AB  - In this pilot study that compared the symptoms and tolerability of once-daily timolol hemihydrate 0.5%, timolol in sorbate 0.5%, and timolol gel-forming solution 0.5% in these patients with glaucoma and/or ocular hypertension, short-term (3-day) administration of timolol in sorbate was associated with more stinging or burning compared with timolol hemihydrate and timolol gel-forming solution. Timolol gel-forming solution was associated with more postinstillation blurred or dimmed vision compared with timolol hemihydrate and timolol in sorbate.

UI  - 19900212
TI  - A randomized, 36-month, post-marketing efficacy and tolerability study in Sweden and Finland of latanoprost versus non-prostaglandin therapy in patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
AB  - Patients who failed previous monotherapy remained on therapy longer when switched to latanoprost. Latanoprost's IOP-reducing effect and tolerability were sustained over the long term. Resource utilization and costs were generally similar in those initiating latanoprost or non-PG therapy.

UI  - 19900209
TI  - Trabeculectomy with OloGen versus trabeculectomy for the treatment of glaucoma: a pilot study.
AB  - In this pilot study it appears that trabeculectomy with OloGen does not seem to offer any significant advantages compared with trabeculectomy alone. Additionally, even though there were no statistical differences between the two groups as far as complications were concerned, one eye from the study group developed endophthalmitis 10 days after surgery and two eyes presented with positive Seidel test and flat anterior chamber and required additional suturing. Studies with larger numbers of patients and longer follow-ups are required to confirm these findings and to examine the safety and long-term outcomes of trabeculectomy with OloGen.

UI  - 19892433
TI  - [Intravitreal bevacizumab for treatment of neovascular glaucoma. Report of 20 cases].
AB  - Intravitreal bevacizumab was effective in reversing iris neovascularization in association with panretinal photocoagulation and cyclophotocoagulation.

UI  - 19882583
TI  - Xal-Ease: impact of an ocular hypotensive delivery device on ease of eyedrop administration, patient compliance, and satisfaction.
AB  - Xal-Ease generally makes administration of latanoprost or fixed-combination latanoprost/timolol easier compared with the dropper bottle.

UI  - 19878123
TI  - The effect of prostaglandin analogues on central corneal thickness of patients with chronic open-angle glaucoma: a 2-year study on 129 eyes.
AB  - The possibility of corneal thickening under prolonged, local prostaglandin treatment should be investigated further. However, in clinical practice, CCT changes may sometimes influence intraocular pressure measurements significantly.

UI  - 19860553
TI  - A comparison of bimatoprost 0.03% versus the fixed-combination of latanoprost 0.005% and timolol 0.5% in adult patients with elevated intraocular pressure: an eight-week, randomized, open-label trial.
AB  - The fixed combination of latanoprost/timolol was significantly superior to bimatoprost alone in reducing IOP in patients with POAG or OHT. Further studies with large sample sizes should be taken to support the superior efficacy of latanoprost/timolol, as well as to better assess its profile of side effects.

UI  - 19855289
TI  - The safety and efficacy of bimatoprost/timolol fixed combination: a 1-year double-masked, randomized parallel comparison to its individual components in patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
AB  - 

UI  - 19850848
TI  - Effect of dorzolamide and timolol on ocular pressure: blood flow relationship in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension.
AB  - The present study indicates that intraocular pressure reduction with timolol or dorzolamide is associated with normalization of the ocular pressure/flow relationship. Whether this is related to the beneficial effects of IOP-lowering therapy in glaucoma remains to be established. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00991822.).

UI  - 19826393
TI  - Intravitreal bevacizumab for neovascular glaucoma: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Intravitreal injections of bevacizumab seem to reduce NVI and IOP in NVG and may be considered as an adjunct to more definitive surgical procedures for NVG.

UI  - 19826386
TI  - Efficacy and safety of bimatoprost as replacement for latanoprost in patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension: a uniocular switch study.
AB  - Clinically, these data suggest that switching patients from latanoprost to bimatoprost may result in further improvement in IOP control.

UI  - 19825835
TI  - Twenty-four-hour intraocular pressure control with bimatoprost and the bimatoprost/timolol fixed combination administered in the morning, or evening in exfoliative glaucoma.
AB  - Both BTFC dosing regimens significantly reduce 24 h IOP in XFG compared with bimatoprost monotherapy. The evening dosing gives rise to statistically better 24 h IOP control and could be considered in these patients.

UI  - 19815286
TI  - Interventions improve poor adherence with once daily glaucoma medications in electronically monitored patients.
AB  - A multifaceted intervention significantly increased adherence with glaucoma medications. Those with improved adherence were in the intervention group, had very low adherence rates at baseline, and were white. IOP did not correlate with adherence. Further research is needed to determine which components of this intervention were most effective.

UI  - 19799592
TI  - Predictors for visual field progression and the effects of treatment with dorzolamide 2% or brinzolamide 1% each added to timolol 0.5% in primary open-angle glaucoma.
AB  - Progression increased with lower DBP, lower MAP, antihypertensive medication, lower EDV in the OA and SPCA, and higher RI in the OA and SPCA. The risk for progression in patients treated with DT was half that in patients treated with BT.

UI  - 19787599
TI  - Visual function, optic nerve structure, and ocular blood flow parameters after 1 year of glaucoma treatment with fixed combinations.
AB  - One year of treatment with LTFC or DTFC resulted in similar IOP lowering effects as well as stable visual function and structure. The DTFC group showed lower vascular resistance in retrobulbar vessels compared to the LTFC group.

UI  - 19730119
TI  - Additive intraocular pressure reduction effect of fixed combination of maleate timolol 0.5%/dorzolamide 2% (Cosopt) on monotherapy with latanoprost (Xalatan) in patients with elevated intraocular pressure: a prospective, 4-week, open-label, randomized, controlled clinical trial.
AB  - In our sample, dorzolamide 2%/timolol 0.5% fixed combination as add-on therapy in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension under monotherapy with latanoprost with IOP already in mid-teens levels may further enhance pressure reduction.

UI  - 19726422
TI  - Efficacy and tolerability of bimatoprost versus travoprost in patients previously on latanoprost: a 3-month, randomised, masked-evaluator, multicentre study.
AB  - Patients on latanoprost requiring lower IOP achieved a greater additional short-term diurnal IOP reduction when latanoprost was replaced by bimatoprost compared with travoprost. Low rates of hyperaemia were observed in patients treated with bimatoprost or travoprost after switching from latanoprost.

UI  - 19706018
TI  - Ocular blood flow and oxygen delivery to the retina in primary open-angle glaucoma patients: the addition of dorzolamide to timolol monotherapy.
AB  - The addition of dorzolamide to timolol monotherapy decreases IOP and increases retinal blood flow in the superficial retinal vasculature in both glaucomatous and healthy patients following 8 months of treatment. The combination of increased retinal blood flow with consistent oxygen saturation may potentially increase oxygen delivery to the retina.

UI  - 19692375
TI  - Using diurnal intraocular pressure fluctuation to assess the efficacy of fixed-combination latanoprost/timolol versus latanoprost or timolol monotherapy.
AB  - Fixed-combination latanoprost/timolol results in lower diurnal IOP fluctuation and significantly fewer patients with a high fluctuation than treatment with latanoprost or timolol monotherapy. The fixed combination may have an independent effect on reducing IOP fluctuation in addition to lowering IOP.

UI  - 19684423
TI  - Pneumatic trabeculoplasty versus argon laser trabeculoplasty in primary open-angle glaucoma.
AB  - PNT is less effective than ALT in POAG uncontrolled with two topical therapies.

UI  - 19683191
TI  - Betaxolol hydrochloride ophthalmic suspension 0.25% and timolol gel-forming solution 0.25% and 0.5% in pediatric glaucoma: a randomized clinical trial.
AB  - Betaxolol ophthalmic suspension 0.25%, TGFS 0.25%, and TGFS 0.5% were well tolerated. Despite low responder rates, all 3 treatments produced statistically significant mean reductions in IOP in pediatric glaucoma subjects.

UI  - 19661825
TI  - Treatment of glaucoma in clinical practice: four-year results from a patient registry in France.
AB  - This is the first prospective study of treatment with prostaglandins in clinical practice. The results indicate that many patients with early glaucoma managed primarily with prostaglandins will show very little progression over 4 years. Compared with the mid-90s, costs have not increased despite the higher acquisition cost of prostaglandins, as surgical interventions and medical consultations have decreased.

UI  - 19653869
TI  - Long-term effects of prostaglandin analogues on the anterior chamber depth of patients with primary open-angle glaucoma.
AB  - The ACD of patients on prolonged therapy with prostaglandin analogues seems to be lower than than that of the control group. However, prospective long-term studies on large number of subjects are needed to evaluate the effect of each type of prostaglandin on ocular structures.

UI  - 19623869
TI  - The effect of travoprost 0.004% as an adjuvant to timolol 0.5% therapy.
AB  - The aim of the study was to compare the efficacy of travoprost 0.004% eye drops added to therapy with timolol 0.5%. The study included 40 patients (80 eyes) with open angle glaucoma and intraocular pressure (IOP) above 18 mm Hg treated with topical beta blocker (timolol 0.50% twice a day). Travoprost 0.004% was added to timolol 0.5% therapy once daily in the evening. Follow up examinations were scheduled at 7 days, one month and three months. IOP lowering was achieved in all patients. Substantial lowering of 2.42 mm Hg was achieved after the first week of treatment. Further lowering and stabilization of IOP was recorded at three months, with total IOP decrease of 3.97 mm Hg; the difference was statistically significant (chi2=6.7743; p<0.01). At three months, target IOP was recorded in 64 eyes (16.4+/-0.7 mm Hg) and failed to be achieved in 16 eyes (21.1+/-2.3 mm Hg). Mild hyperemia was found in two patients and discrete hyperemia in 26 patients. Burning sensation associated with the use of travoprost 0.004% eye drops was reported by 68 patients. In conclusion, the use of travoprost 0.004% eye drops resulted in successful lowering of IOP and achievement of target IOP.

UI  - 19601697
TI  - Switching from concomitant latanoprost 0.005% and timolol 0.5% to a fixed combination of travoprost 0.004%/timolol 0.5% in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension: a 6-month, multicenter, cohort study.
AB  - TTFC appeared useful in this selected population. In this study, patients who underwent a regimen modification to TTFC obtained further reduction in IOP with a lower exposition to preservative toxicity. The low discontinuation rate at 6 months indicates a good tolerability profile.

UI  - 19592108
TI  - Brimonidine tartrate 0.15%, dorzolamide hydrochloride 2%, and brinzolamide 1% compared as adjunctive therapy to prostaglandin analogs.
AB  - Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.

UI  - 19576495
TI  - A Prospective, randomized, investigator-masked evaluation of the monocular trial in ocular hypertension or open-angle glaucoma.
AB  - The practice of adjusting the IOP change in the treated eye by the IOP change in the untreated eye--the monocular drug trial--is no more informative than using the treated eye's unadjusted IOP change, and both of these methods are poor predictors of long-term IOP reduction with latanoprost.

UI  - 19551674
TI  - A 12-week study evaluating the efficacy of bimatoprost 0.03% in patients with pseudoexfoliative and open-angle glaucoma.
AB  - Bimatoprost was effective and safe in lowering IOP both in open angle and pseudoexfoliative glaucoma, achieving target pressure in most patients. However, long-term efficacy in PXG must be evaluated.

UI  - 19551673
TI  - Ophthalmologist attitudes regarding fixed combination treatment for glaucoma in the European Union.
AB  - FCs in the European Union are a potentially popular method to reduce intraocular pressure, being prescribed most commonly as second or third choice therapy. The perceived advantages to FC therapy are greater adherence to the medicine and improved patient quality of life.

UI  - 19506189
TI  - An objective evaluation of eyedrop instillation in patients with glaucoma.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00522600.

UI  - 19505676
TI  - Changes in corneal endothelial cells after Ahmed glaucoma valve implantation: 2-year follow-up.
AB  - There was statistically significant corneal endothelial cell loss in the operated eye after AGV implant surgery. The corneal endothelial cell loss increased with time: 15.3% at 12 months and 18.6% at 24 months after surgery, on average, in all measured areas.

UI  - 19472537
TI  - Effect of different application depths of mitomycin-C in deep sclerectomy with collagen implant: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - No significant difference in efficacy and safety was found between the two groups at a mean of 19.2 months of follow up. Deep scleral application of MMC, however, seems to produce significantly smaller intrascleral blebs.

UI  - 19416932
TI  - Dorzolamide-timolol combination and retinal vessel oxygen saturation in patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
AB  - Adding dorzolamide to timolol monotherapy has a minimal effect, but going from dorzolamide-timolol combination to timolol alone lowered arteriolar and venular oxygen saturation. The retinal oxygen saturation measurements show a high degree of stability over an extended period of time. Previous studies have suggested increased retinal and optic nerve blood flow with dorzolamide. Unchanged oxygen saturation and increased blood flow would indicate increased oxygen delivery to the retina.

UI  - 19401880
TI  - 24-hour intraocular pressure and blood pressure levels with latanoprost/timolol fixed combination versus timolol.
AB  - Neither timolol or evening-dosed LTFC reduced SBP, DBP, MBP, OPP, or increased nocturnal dipping. LTFC was more effective than timolol in decreasing IOP.

UI  - 19376591
TI  - Risk factors for poor adherence to eyedrops in electronically monitored patients with glaucoma.
AB  - Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.

UI  - 19365194
TI  - The safety and efficacy of brinzolamide 1%/timolol 0.5% fixed combination versus dorzolamide 2%/timolol 0.5% in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
AB  - Brinz/Tim suspension provides statistically significant and clinically relevant IOP-lowering efficacy that is noninferior to Dorz/Tim. Additionally, Brinz/Tim affords an ocular comfort advantage compared with Dorz/Tim.

UI  - 19348600
TI  - A comparison of the long-term effects of dorzolamide 2% and brinzolamide 1%, each added to timolol 0.5%, on retrobulbar hemodynamics and intraocular pressure in open-angle glaucoma patients.
AB  - Our results suggest augmented retrobulbar blood flow after 5 years of treatment with dorzolamide but not with brinzolamide, each added to timolol, in POAG patients.

UI  - 19336424
TI  - A randomised crossover study comparing bimatoprost and latanoprost in subjects with primary angle closure glaucoma.
AB  - Bimatoprost once daily was similarly effective in reducing IOP compared with latanoprost once daily in subjects with chronic PACG. Both drugs were well tolerated with mild ocular adverse events.

UI  - 19290780
TI  - Efficacy, tolerability and safety of the fixed combination of bimatoprost 0.03% and timolol 0.5% in a broad patient population: multicenter, open-label observational study.
AB  - Although this study was limited by its observational design, our results show that the fixed combination of bimatoprost 0.03%/timolol 0.5% was effective, well tolerated, and safe in a broad patient population.

UI  - 19290537
TI  - Effect of epigallocatechin-gallate on inner retinal function in ocular hypertension and glaucoma: a short-term study by pattern electroretinogram.
AB  - Although this study cannot provide evidence for long-term benefit of EGCG supplementation in OAG, and the observed effect is small, the results suggest that EGCG might favourably influence inner retinal function in eyes with early to moderately advanced glaucomatous damage.

UI  - 19275517
TI  - Treatment of patients with primary open-angle glaucoma with a fixed combination of brimonidine 0.2%/timolol 0.5%: multicenter, open-label, observational study in Germany.
AB  - Although this study was limited by its observational design, our results show that the fixed combination of brimonidine 0.2%/timolol 0.5% was effective, well tolerated, and safe in a broad POAG patient population.

UI  - 19253237
TI  - Adjunctive use of tafluprost with timolol provides additive effects for reduction of intraocular pressure in patients with glaucoma.
AB  - As adjunctive therapy to timolol, tafluprost achieved a consistently greater reduction in IOP compared with vehicle, and was well tolerated.

UI  - 19247684
TI  - Pneumatic trabeculoplasty vs latanoprost as adjunctive therapy to timolol in primary open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
AB  - In eyes with glaucomatous damage that is not advanced, PNT can reduce the IOP in 60% of the eyes at 1 month, and in 33% of the eyes at 3 months, without significant side-effects. The indications, efficacy and safety of PNT retreatments remain to be investigated. IOP reduction is less and of shorter duration than that obtained by latanoprost adjunctive therapy.

UI  - 19232005
TI  - Potential benefit of intraocular pressure reduction in normal-tension glaucoma in South Korea.
AB  - This study provides initial evidence that Korean patients with normal-tension glaucoma, treated to lower IOPs, may have a decreased incidence of progression over 5 years than those patients with higher IOPs. More research is required to confirm this finding.

UI  - 19225354
TI  - Increased iridial pigmentation in Chinese eyes after use of travoprost 0.004%.
AB  - Contrary to the previous studies that noted that the percentage of iris hyperpigmentation caused by travoprost in homochromic brown eyes was very low, our study showed that 35.6% iris hyperpigmentation did occur, which is a considerably higher percentage than that reported in whites.

UI  - 19210139
TI  - Ocular hypotensive efficacy and safety of travoprost 0.004% in inadequately controlled primary open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension: short-term, multicenter, prospective study.
AB  - The open-label and non-comparative nature of the study represented its principal limitations. The study confirmed the efficacy and tolerability of travoprost in the treatment of open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension, in a subset of patients unsuccessfully treated with beta-blockers. In this study, travoprost significantly increased DOPP at short-term follow-up. Further studies to assess the effect of travoprost on DOPP are warranted.

UI  - 19187822
TI  - The singapore 5-Fluorouracil trabeculectomy study: effects on intraocular pressure control and disease progression at 3 years.
AB  - The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.

UI  - 19184081
TI  - Efficacy and safety of latanoprost in eyes with uveitic glaucoma.
AB  - Latanoprost is safe and equally effective to a fixed combination of dorzolamide and timolol in the treatment of uveitic glaucoma.

UI  - 20579473
TI  - [Intravitreal bevacizumab in the treatment of neovascular glaucoma].
AB  - Intravitreal injection of 1.25 mg (0.05 ml) of bevacizumab contributes to a better management of neovascular glaucoma.

UI  - 19178390
TI  - Intraocular pressure control over 24 hours using travoprost and timolol fixed combination administered in the morning or evening in primary open-angle and exfoliative glaucoma.
AB  - Both morning and evening administration of TTFC provide effective 24-hour IOP reduction, but evening dosing demonstrates better 24-hour pressure control.

UI  - 19157559
TI  - Comparing diurnal and nocturnal effects of brinzolamide and timolol on intraocular pressure in patients receiving latanoprost monotherapy.
AB  - In patients already receiving the latanoprost monotherapy, adding brinzolamide or timolol significantly reduced IOP during the diurnal period. However, only the brinzolamide add-on treatment had an IOP-lowering efficacy during the nocturnal period.

UI  - 19123151
TI  - Efficacy of the fixed combinations of bimatoprost or latanoprost plus timolol in patients uncontrolled with prostaglandin monotherapy: a multicenter, randomized, investigator-masked, clinical study.
AB  - Both BTFC and LTFC were more effective versus the monotherapy with prostaglandin analogues. BTFC demonstrated higher performance than LTFC in terms of relative IOP reduction.

UI  - 21141019
TI  - Efficacy of latanoprost in management of chronic angle closure glaucoma.
AB  - latanoprost, a prostaglandin analogue, is effective in reducing IOP in chronic angle closure glaucoma patients and its efficacy is not affected by the degree of angle closure by peripheral anterior synechiae.

UI  - 19106150
TI  - Intraocular pressure control and fluctuation: the effect of treatment with selective laser trabeculoplasty.
AB  - Both SLT and latanoprost had a significant impact on IOP control and fluctuation. While latanoprost may be more likely to reduce IOP fluctuation, SLT has the benefit of being a one-time intervention not requiring ongoing patient compliance.

UI  - 19092465
TI  - An eight-week, multicentric, randomized, interventional, open-label, phase 4, parallel comparison of the efficacy and tolerability of the fixed combination of timolol maleate 0.5%/brimonidine tartrate 0.2% versus fixed combination of timolol maleate 0.5%/dorzolamide 2% in patients with elevated intraocular pressure.
AB  - Both fixed combinations were capable of significantly reducing the mean diurnal IOP, mean diurnal peak, and mean WDT peak after 8 weeks of treatment. Also, both fixed combinations are well tolerated with few side effects.

UI  - 19084273
TI  - Adherence with topical glaucoma medication monitored electronically the Travatan Dosing Aid study.
AB  - Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.

UI  - 19060263
TI  - Evaluating clinical change and visual function concerns in drivers and nondrivers with glaucoma.
AB  - Inquiring about specific difficulties with tasks related to glare, visual processing speed, visual search, and peripheral vision in driving, especially among patients with substantial bilateral visual field damage, will enable physicians to more effectively counsel patients regarding driving.

UI  - 19049301
TI  - A one-week comfort study of BID-dosed brinzolamide 1%/timolol 0.5% ophthalmic suspension fixed combination compared to BID-dosed dorzolamide 2%/timolol 0.5% ophthalmic solution in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
AB  - Brinzolamide 1%/timolol 0.5% ophthalmic suspension is associated with a statistically significantly less ocular discomfort profile than dorzolamide 2%/timolol 0.5% ophthalmic solution.

UI  - 19032174
TI  - Intravitreal bevacizumab (Avastin) injection for neovascular glaucoma: a survey on 23 cases throughout 12-month follow-up.
AB  - Intravitreal bevacizumab, as adjunctive treatment to the standard retinal ablative procedure, seems promising for the management of conditions responsible of retinal ischaemia/hypoxia associated with NVG.

UI  - 19019932
TI  - Twenty-four-hour intraocular pressure control with the travoprost/timolol maleate fixed combination compared with travoprost when both are dosed in the evening in primary open-angle glaucoma.
AB  - This study suggests that when both drugs are dosed in the evening the TTFC provides improved intraocular pressure reduction, compared with travoprost, over the 24 h curve and for each individual time point in primary open-angle glaucoma patients.

UI  - 19019444
TI  - Visual field progression in the Collaborative Initial Glaucoma Treatment Study the impact of treatment and other baseline factors.
AB  - The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.

UI  - 18991470
TI  - Intraocular pressure control with latanoprost/timolol and travoprost/timolol fixed combinations : a retrospective, multicentre, cross-sectional study.
AB  - This study, conducted in routine ophthalmic practice, confirmed published clinical trial results showing that TT provides better IOP control than TL when measured in the morning, and that travoprost has longer-lasting residual effects than latanoprost when IOP is measured >24 hours after instillation. However, readers should interpret these findings in the context of a cross-sectional observational study conducted in a naturalistic setting.

UI  - 18991037
TI  - The additive effects on intraocular pressure of combining nipradilol 0.25% and latanoprost 0.005% ophthalmic solutions: a prospective, randomized, multicenter study.
AB  - Latanoprost and nipradilol are more effective as a combination therapy than each one by itself.

UI  - 18971850
TI  - [Satisfaction and compliance of ocular hypertensive and glaucoma patients topically treated with a combination therapy].
AB  - Fixed combination provides an easier regimen and therefore encourages better compliance, a key issue in a chronic disease such as glaucoma.

UI  - 18752510
TI  - Efficacy and safety levels of preserved and preservative-free tafluprost are equivalent in patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension: results from a pharmacodynamics analysis.
AB  - THE reduction in IOP achieved by preservative-free tafluprost is equivalent to that obtained with the preserved formulation. The preservative-free formulation was generally well tolerated.

UI  - 18930550
TI  - Long-term outcomes of intraoperative 5-fluorouracil versus intraoperative mitomycin C in primary trabeculectomy surgery.
AB  - The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.

UI  - 18854732
TI  - High prevalence of anxiety and depression in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma.
AB  - POAG was related to anxiety and depression. No significant relationship between the use of beta-blocker eye-drops and depression was noted.

UI  - 18826749
TI  - Comparison of morning versus evening dosing and 24-h post-dose efficacy of travoprost compared with latanoprost in patients with open-angle glaucoma .
AB  - a.m.-dosed travoprost is superior to a.m.-dosed latanoprost by 1.7mmHg at 24-h post-dose.

UI  - 18793581
TI  - Tafluprost, a new potent prostanoid receptor agonist: a dose-response study on pharmacodynamics and tolerability in healthy volunteers.
AB  - Tafluprost was well tolerated and effective in lowering IOP. These data support further testing of tafluprost 0.0025% and 0.005%.

UI  - 18782799
TI  - Nine-year follow-up of trabeculectomy with or without low-dosage mitomycin-c in primary open-angle glaucoma.
AB  - In POAG low-dose MMC with intensified postoperative management improved the outcome of the trabeculectomy with a low incidence of complications.

UI  - 18780653
TI  - [Comparison of intraocular pressure lowering efficacy of bimatoprost / timolol fixed combination and other glaucoma medications in the treatment of glaucoma].
AB  - In all three groups of glaucoma patients there was a significant and prolonged decrease in IOP after treatment with BTFK. The use of BTFK was accompanied by smaller incidence of conjunctival hyperemia compared to isolated bimatoprost or travoprost / timolol combination.

UI  - 18779480
TI  - Predicting response to glaucoma therapy in one eye based on response in the fellow eye: the monocular trial.
AB  - The change in IOP of one eye due to a medication may be predictive of the subsequent response of the fellow eye to the same medication in glaucoma suspects, but not in patients with POAG. Using the fellow eye as a control may confer a more accurate portrayal of the true therapeutic effects of a medicine, although further study is needed to support both of these findings.

UI  - 18773262
TI  - Clinical efficacy of topical nipradilol and timolol on visual field performance in normal-tension glaucoma: a multicenter, randomized, double-masked comparative study.
AB  - No significant difference in visual field performance or IOP reduction was seen between the nipradilol and timolol groups.

UI  - 18721251
TI  - Efficacy and safety of latanoprost versus pilocarpine/timolol maleate fixed combination in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
AB  - Both PTFC and latanoprost are efficacious in reducing diurnal IOP in POAG or OH. However, PTFC may be more effective in the late morning and may have a greater incidence of mild ocular side-effects.

UI  - 18717189
TI  - Efficacy of latanoprost when stored at room temperature.
AB  - We compared the ocular hypotensive effect for 24 hours and the tolerability of latanoprost stored at 4 degrees C and 30 degrees C. Seventeen healthy volunteers were included in this crossover trial. Latanoprost 0.005% (Xalatan) was stored at 4 degrees C or 30 degrees C for 4 weeks in the dark. The subjects enrolled to the study were randomly assigned to receive either latanoprost stored at 4 degrees C or that stored at 30 degrees C. The eye drop was applied to the right eye of each subject for 3 days. The left eye served as a control without administration. Slit-lamp biomicroscopy and circadian intra ocular pressure (IOP) curve was performed at Day 3, every 3 hours from 6 pm. This procedure was repeated 7 days after changing the drug from 4 degrees C to 30 degrees C or vice versa, and application to the left eye for 3 days. Eyes treated with latanoprost, stored both at 4 degrees C and 30 degrees C, achieved statistically significantly lower mean IOPs than untreated eyes at all time points, except at 21 hours treated by the drug stored at 30 degrees C. We subtracted the IOP of eyes receiving latanoprost from the IOP of untreated eyes for each time point to evaluate the efficacy of the eye drops (delta IOP). There were no statistically significant differences between the delta IOPs with the drug stored at 4 degrees C and 30 degrees C. During the study, no subject developed a serious adverse event. These results suggest that latanoprost stored at 30 degrees C for 4 weeks after opening the bottle remains as effective and safe as latanoprost stored under cold conditions.

UI  - 18711461
TI  - Multicenter study of compliance and drop administration in glaucoma.
AB  - Over 50% of the patients surveyed were either noncompliant or demonstrated improper administration technique. Glaucoma patients should be educated on the importance of compliance and instructed on proper drop administration.

UI  - 18703549
TI  - Second-line therapy with dorzolamide/timolol or latanoprost/timolol fixed combination versus adding dorzolamide/timolol fixed combination to latanoprost monotherapy.
AB  - This study showed DTFC, LTFC and the addition of DTFC to latanoprost significantly decrease the IOP compared with latanoprost alone, but the latter therapy regime yields the greatest IOP reduction.

UI  - 18691444
TI  - Comparison of allergy rates in glaucoma patients receiving brimonidine 0.2% monotherapy versus fixed-combination brimonidine 0.2%-timolol 0.5% therapy.
AB  - The brimonidine-timolol fixed combination was associated with a 50% lower incidence in ocular allergy compared with 0.2% brimonidine monotherapy. This difference between treatments was not statistically significant (p=0.097) but is likely to be clinically important. Additional studies are needed to evaluate the incidence of ocular allergy associated with brimonidine-timolol fixed combination treatment.

UI  - 18672290
TI  - A placebo-controlled 3-year study of a calcium blocker on visual field and ocular circulation in glaucoma with low-normal pressure.
AB  - Nilvadipine (2 mg twice daily) slightly slowed the visual field progression and maintained the optic disc rim, and the posterior choroidal circulation increased over 3 years in patients with OAG with low-normal IOP.

UI  - 18670465
TI  - Changes in visual function after intraocular pressure reduction using antiglaucoma medications.
AB  - Visual quality perception, visual field mean deviation index, and CS at higher frequencies improve after starting glaucoma therapy. However, no correlation was found between IOP reduction and changes in visual function, and no differences were found in visual function when the three medications studied were compared.

UI  - 18665813
TI  - Observational study results in glaucoma patients undergoing a regimen replacement to fixed combination travoprost 0.004%/timolol 0.5% in Germany.
AB  - With the launch of the fixed combination of travoprost 0.004%/timolol 0.5% (trav/tim) in Germany in May 2006, a noninterventional observational study designed as an open-label, multicenter, 6-week trial was initiated in order to evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of this new drug combination in glaucoma patients. Participants were grouped into categories according to previous drug regimens: those on timolol monotherapy; those on prostaglandin analog (PGA) monotherapy; those on concomitant therapy with a PGA and timolol; and those on fixed combinations. Trav/tim was well accepted by the patients, with 87.9% judging the tolerability of the therapy as good, very good, or excellent. Analysis of intraocular pressure (IOP) measurements showed statistically significant IOP decreases in all four categories examined in our study after regimen substitution with fixed-combination trav/tim. Fixed-combination prostaglandin analog/beta-blocker formulations are an attractive therapeutic option due to their strong IOP-lowering efficacy with once-daily dosing. In this study, glaucoma patients who underwent a regimen modification to fixed-combination trav/tim showed further reductions in IOP, irrespective of which selected monoor multiple therapies had been used previously.

UI  - 18640468
TI  - Effects of dorzolamide 2% added to timolol maleate 0.5% on intraocular pressure, retrobulbar blood flow, and the progression of visual field damage in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma: a single-center, 4-year, open-label study.
AB  - In this 4-year, open-label study in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma, dorzolamide 2% BID added to timolol 0.5% BID was associated with a significant reduction in IOP and significant increases in retrobulbar hemodynamic parameters in both the ophthalmic and short posterior ciliary arteries. Dorzolamide added to timolol may be effective in preventing progression of glaucomatous visual field damage.

UI  - 18627642
TI  - 24-hour control of intraocular pressure with 2% dorzolamide/0.5% timolol fixed-combination ophthalmic solution in open-angle glaucoma.
AB  - Both DTFC and timolol provided significant IOP reduction over the entire 24-hour measurement period. Although this study was not designed or powered to compare DTFC and timolol, DTFC exhibited greater IOP-lowering than timolol during the daytime, but not at night.

UI  - 18627340
TI  - A comparison of dorzolamide/timolol-fixed combination versus bimatoprost in patients with open-angle glaucoma who are poorly controlled on latanoprost.
AB  - This study suggests that OAG patients generally can obtain similar IOP control at individual time points (when a Bonferroni correction is considered) by switching to either DTFC or bimatoprost, but overall diurnal control is statistically better with bimatoprost.

UI  - 18621791
TI  - Long-term efficacy and safety of bimatoprost for intraocular pressure lowering in glaucoma and ocular hypertension: year 4.
AB  - Bimatoprost once daily provided sustained IOP lowering greater than timolol twice daily and was well tolerated over long-term use.

UI  - 18609474
TI  - Comparison of daytime efficacy and safety of dorzolamide/timolol maleate fixed combination versus latanoprost.
AB  - This study suggests that following a timolol run-in both DTFC and latanoprost provide comparable daytime efficacy and safety.

UI  - 18586898
TI  - Twenty-four-hour intraocular pressure and blood pressure levels with bimatoprost versus latanoprost in patients with normal-tension glaucoma.
AB  - In patients with normal-tension glaucoma, both bimatoprost and latanoprost reduce the 24 h intraocular pressure from untreated baseline to a similar extent. Latanoprost is associated with slightly improved ocular diastolic perfusion pressure over 24 h but similar absolute perfusion levels to that of bimatoprost.

UI  - 18568885
TI  - Topical and oral ketorolac administration increases the intraocular pressure-lowering effect of latanoprost.
AB  - Topical and oral ketorolac strengthens the latanoprost-induced IOP-lowering effect both in glaucomatous patients and in healthy subjects.

UI  - 18547433
TI  - Comparative study of the stability of bimatoprost 0.03% and latanoprost 0.005%: a patient-use study.
AB  - This study showed that bimatoprost maintained > or =100% concentration throughout the study period while latanoprost did not.

UI  - 18543683
TI  - [Prostaglandin analogues and central corneal thickness].
AB  - The results of this study show that both classes of prostaglandin analogs reduce the mean CCT, the effect being equivalent for the both studied groups.

UI  - 18538406
TI  - Intraocular pressure-lowering efficacy of brinzolamide 1%/timolol 0.5% fixed combination compared with brinzolamide 1% and timolol 0.5%.
AB  - Brinzolamide 1%/timolol 05% is superior in IOP-lowering efficacy to either brinzolamide 1% or timolol 0.5%.

UI  - 18535605
TI  - Bimatoprost/timolol fixed combination vs latanoprost/timolol fixed combination in open-angle glaucoma patients.
AB  - This study suggests that the evening-dosed BTFC provides better IOP control than that of LTFC over 12 h. However, the IOP difference was small and may not be clinically meaningful.

UI  - 18534052
TI  - Brimonidine-purite 0.1% versus brimonidine-purite 0.15% twice daily in glaucoma or ocular hypertension: a 12-month randomized trial.
AB  - Brimonidine-purite 0.1% BID is as effective as brimonidine-purite 0.15% BID in lowering IOP in patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension who were previously treated with brimonidine-purite 0.15%, and both formulations are well tolerated. Limitations of the study include enrollment of only patients who were already on treatment with brimonidine-purite 0.15%. The 0.1% formulation of brimonidine-purite allows for decreased exposure to brimonidine while providing an IOP-lowering effect comparable to that of the 0.15% formulation. Clinical trial registered at clinicaltrials.gov; identifier: NCT00168363.

UI  - 18520829
TI  - Topical antiglaucoma medications and lacrimal drainage system obstruction.
AB  - Patients taking a combination of topical antiglaucoma medications showed significantly increased risk of developing lacrimal drainage system obstruction. Both total and upper obstruction was significantly more frequent in patients on topical antiglaucoma medications.

UI  - 18511540
TI  - The effect of travoprost on daytime intraocular pressure in normal tension glaucoma: a randomised controlled trial.
AB  - Travoprost monotherapy had a sustained hypotensive effect in NTG and achieved a reasonable or good response (>20% reduction in average IOP) in 32.9% of treated eyes. However, in the majority of eyes with NTG, travoprost monotherapy appeared unable to produce the desirable 30% reduction in average IOP.

UI  - 18507734
TI  - Will improvement of knowledge lead to improvement of compliance with glaucoma medication?
AB  - Given the number of related items, their direction and limited strength of correlation and the difficulty of hypothesizing a causal relation for some items, it is unlikely that further improving knowledge will greatly improve compliance with glaucoma medication. Interventions focused on attitude and discipline may be of more benefit in improving compliance with therapy.

UI  - 18502991
TI  - Effects of the timolol-dorzolamide fixed combination and latanoprost on circadian diastolic ocular perfusion pressure in glaucoma.
AB  - In previously untreated patients with POAG, TDFC, and latanoprost equally enhanced 24-hour DOPP: the former by counteracting the decrease in DBP with a substantial reduction in IOP and the latter by not affecting DBP and significantly reducing IOP. (isrctn.org number, ISRCTN67123277.).

UI  - 18497524
TI  - Comparison of ocular surface side effects of topical travoprost and bimatoprost.
AB  - We observed conjunctival hyperemia as the most common side effect of bimatoprost and travoprost. Tear film functions were not affected by these drugs while cytological alterations were.

UI  - 18479590
TI  - Intraocular pressure reduction with travoprost/timolol fixed combination, with and without adjunctive brinzolamide, in glaucoma.
AB  - Adjunctive brinzolamide medication provided further IOP decrease in patients receiving evening-dosed travoprost/timolol fixed combination. The travoprost/timolol fixed combination was significantly more effective in IOP reduction than travoprost monotherapy, which by itself induced a significant IOP decrease compared to the untreated baseline value. The results of this open label study suggest that combined therapy with travoprost/timolol fixed combination and brinzolamide is clinically useful for IOP-lowering in primary open-angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension.

UI  - 18465724
TI  - A 5-year, randomized, open-label safety study of latanoprost and usual care in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
AB  - This 5-year study suggests that latanoprost as prescribed in 14 countries is a safe long-term treatment for patients with glaucoma and ocular hypertension.

UI  - 18465723
TI  - An in vivo confocal microscopy and impression cytology analysis of preserved and unpreserved levobunolol-induced conjunctival changes.
AB  - All the IVCM and impression cytology parameters correlated well with the conjunctival modifications induced by the topical therapy, suggesting the less toxicity of unpreserved drugs.

UI  - 18437182
TI  - Barriers to adherence with glaucoma medications: a qualitative research study.
AB  - Specific obstacles to adherence with anti-glaucomatous therapy should be identified as early as possible after diagnosis. A tailored approach to patient care with initial education about the consequences of non-adherence and longer-term feedback about drop efficacy may improve patients' motivations for adherence. Future research should focus on investigating methods by which initial education about glaucoma and its management should best be delivered to patients.

UI  - 18414111
TI  - Comparison of ocular hypotensive effect and safety of brinzolamide and timolol added to latanoprost.
AB  - Brinzolamide and timolol added to latanoprost have similar ocular hypotensive effects and safety in primary open-angle glaucoma, normal-tension glaucoma, or ocular hypertension.

UI  - 18414108
TI  - Duration of IOP reduction with travoprost BAK-free solution.
AB  - Travoprost without BAK has similar IOP-lowering efficacy and safety compared with travoprost preserved with BAK. Both formulations of travoprost have a prolonged duration of action, with statistically and clinically significant reductions from baseline persisting up to 60 hours after the last dose.

UI  - 18414107
TI  - Bimatoprost/timolol fixed combination: a 3-month double-masked, randomized parallel comparison to its individual components in patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
AB  - FC was statistically significantly more effective than BIM or TIM for most comparisons, and safer than BIM with respect to common ocular adverse events. FC represents a convenient, therapeutic advantage over separate bottles.

UI  - 18404160
TI  - The application of human anterior lens capsule autotransplantation in phacotrabeculectomy: a prospective, comparative and randomized clinical study.
AB  - Anterior lens capsule autotransplantation could get comparable outcome as MMC in phacotrabeculectomy with few complications.

UI  - 18402717
TI  - Brimonidine purite 0.1% versus brinzolamide 1% as adjunctive therapy to latanoprost in patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
AB  - Brimonidine purite 0.1% provided significantly lower IOP compared with brinzolamide 1% when used as adjunctive therapy to latanoprost. Both adjunctive therapies were well tolerated. Limitations of this study include the use of a single site and the sample size. Additional studies are needed to further evaluate these drugs as adjunctive therapy to prostaglandin analogs.

UI  - 18370880
TI  - Increase and decrease of measurements of iris density of glaucoma patients treated with latanoprost over 36 months.
AB  - There is a heterogeneous response to treatment by latanoprost for 36 months in changes over time of red/blue density measurements for iris color.

UI  - 18369537
TI  - Comparison of twice-daily and three-times-daily dosing of dorzolamide in ocular hypertension and primary open-angle glaucoma patients treated with latanoprost.
AB  - Dorzolamide 2% added to latanoprost 0.005% baseline treatment caused a significant decrease in IOP. The b.i.d. versus t.i.d. dosing of dorzolamide did not significantly affect a change in IOP except at one afternoon time point.

UI  - 18364402
TI  - Effectiveness and safety of dorzolamide-timolol alone or combined with latanoprost in open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
AB  - In patients with primary open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension and elevated IOP while on monotherapy with latanoprost, switching to dorzolamide-timolol or combining dorzolamide-timolol with latanoprost are effective and safe treatment options for reducing IOP and achieving therapeutic response.

UI  - 18355134
TI  - Latanoprost-induced stabilization of central visual function in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma.
AB  - Compared with timolol maleate in Gelrite, latanoprost appears to significantly improve, or at least maintain, central visual function, as measured by CS, at different spatial frequencies in patients with POAG.

UI  - 18352869
TI  - The one-eye trial and fellow eye response to prostaglandin analogues.
AB  - One-eye trial is a feasible method to determine the effectiveness of prostaglandin analogues and to predict the amount of IOP reduction in the fellow eye in patients with high tension glaucoma.

UI  - 18351298
TI  - A multicentre evaluation of the effect of patient education on acceptance of hyperaemia associated with bimatoprost therapy for glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
AB  - Patients were not bothered by the trace.mild hyperaemia associated with bimatoprost therapy. Patient education can improve patient acceptance of a prescribed regimen and potentially increase compliance.

UI  - 18341431
TI  - Effects of switching from topical beta-blockers to latanoprost on intraocular pressure in patients with normal-tension glaucoma.
AB  - In NTG patients, LA reduced IOP more effectively than the beta tested.

UI  - 18327364
TI  - Efficacy of the latanoprost versus timolol/dorzolamide combination therapy in patients with primary open angle glaucoma.
AB  - The latanoprost and dorzolamide/timolol combination were equally effective at lowering IOP compared to untreated baseline.

UI  - 18309334
TI  - Non-invasive biometric assessment of ocular rigidity in glaucoma patients and controls.
AB  - Our results strongly suggest that the ocular rigidity is increased in patients with established glaucoma in comparison to control subjects. Ocular rigidity could play a role in the pathogenesis and pathophysiology of glaucoma. Determination of ocular rigidity could be helpful in detection of glaucoma.

UI  - 18303382
TI  - The effect of latanoprost, bimatoprost, and travoprost on circadian variation of intraocular pressure in patients with open-angle glaucoma.
AB  - Latanoprost, bimatoprost, and travoprost were comparable in their ability to reduce IOP in open-angle glaucoma patients. On the basis of our data, the IOP reduction of these drugs is indistinguishable within statistical parameters.

UI  - 18303228
TI  - A comparative study of bimatoprost and travoprost: effect on intraocular pressure and ocular circulation in newly diagnosed glaucoma patients.
AB  - Patients were likely to achieve and maintain low target IOP with both drugs. Both drugs also resulted in improvement in the central retinal artery blood flow.

UI  - 18293187
TI  - Dorzolamide/timolol fixed combination versus latanoprost/timolol fixed combination in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
AB  - Patients treated with DTFC and LTFC have a statistically similar ocular hypotensive effect.

UI  - 18289898
TI  - Efficacy of brinzolamide and levobetaxolol in pediatric glaucomas: a randomized clinical trial.
AB  - Both brinzolamide and levobetaxolol were well tolerated. Both drugs provided clinically relevant IOP reductions for patients not on a previous medication, although efficacy is, in part, contingent upon diagnosis.

UI  - 18267054
TI  - Evaluation of circadian control of intraocular pressure after a single drop of bimatoprost 0.03% or travoprost 0.004%.
AB  - This marks the first time a single drop has been used for this type of evaluation. These findings suggest that both bimatoprost and travoprost provide comparable and lasting control of circadian IOP in patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension.

UI  - 18227766
TI  - Nonpenetrating very deep sclerectomy with reticulated hyaluronic acid implant in glaucoma treatment.
AB  - NPVDS is an effective surgical modality for patients with glaucoma. The safety of NPVDS is comparable to that of NPDS.

UI  - 18222194
TI  - Inter-visit intraocular pressure range: an alternative parameter for assessing intraocular pressure control in clinical trials.
AB  - Given that high inter-visit IOP range is associated with risk factors for glaucomatous damage and that such differences cannot be evaluated using mean IOPs, inter-visit IOP range may be another useful approach to assessing IOP control in clinical trials.

UI  - 18211927
TI  - Quality of diurnal intraocular pressure control in primary open-angle patients treated with latanoprost compared with surgically treated glaucoma patients: a prospective trial.
AB  - Trabeculectomy patients had a statistically significant lower average IOP in the diurnal tension curve compared with the other two groups. No wider variation in diurnal IOP with latanoprost compared with the surgical procedures was found. The IOP increase during the WDT was most marked in patients under latanoprost therapy.

UI  - 18203086
TI  - Comparison of intraocular pressure lowering effect of once daily morning vs evening dosing of latanoprost/timolol maleate combination.
AB  - Both morning and evening dosing of LTFC were effective in lowering diurnal IOP in patients with POAG. However, evening dosing of LTFC seemed to be more effective in controlling IOP especially in the morning and avoiding the fluctuations with lower range of IOP.

UI  - 18203085
TI  - The costs of treating glaucoma with combinations of topical drugs in Spain.
AB  - Costs are determined by the response to treatment. Inadequate response triggers treatment changes and sometimes eventually surgical interventions, thereby increasing costs significantly.

UI  - 18202708
TI  - The effects of dorzolamide 2% and dorzolamide/timolol fixed combination on retinal and optic nerve head blood flow in primary open-angle glaucoma patients.
AB  - Dorzolamide/timolol fixed combination increased blood flow significantly at the neuroretinal rim showing a combination of hypotensive and haemodynamic effects.

UI  - 18190599
TI  - What do people with glaucoma know about their condition? A comparative cross-sectional incidence and prevalence survey.
AB  - Patients with established glaucoma have only slightly greater knowledge than newly diagnosed patients, with both patient groups harbouring significant misconceptions regarding glaucoma. Educational programmes and material should be tailored to address these misconceptions.

UI  - 18166407
TI  - Comparison of the 24-hour intraocular pressure-lowering effects of latanoprost and dorzolamide/timolol fixed combination after 2 and 6 months of treatment.
AB  - After 6 months of therapy, the DTFC and latanoprost have clinically similar 24-hour IOP-lowering efficacies.

UI  - 18164064
TI  - Randomized trial of early phacoemulsification versus peripheral iridotomy to prevent intraocular pressure rise after acute primary angle closure.
AB  - Early phacoemulsification appeared to be more effective in preventing IOP rise than LPI in patients after abortion of APAC. High presenting IOP of >55 mmHg is an added risk factor for subsequent IOP rise. For patients with coexisting cataract and presenting IOP of >55 mmHg, early phacoemulsification can be considered as a definitive treatment to prevent IOP rise.

UI  - 19354170
TI  - [Analysis of the effectiveness of beta-blockers for intraocular pressure and visual field in primary open-angle glaucoma].
AB  - Pressure release situated at 21.65%, with initial medium IOP at 23.95, and a final value of 17.51; p <0.0001. The aspect of the visual field suffered no negative transformations and no improvements either. The MD and PD parameters were recorded. CONCLUSIONS Beta-blockers can be efficient in monotherapy by offering the reduction and stabilisation of IOP. No problems with regard to tolerability in the eyes observed; no negative side effects emerged because it was not administered to patients which suffered from heart diseases or bronchial asthma. However, patient satisfaction is reduced by an administration of twice a day.

UI  - 18091183
TI  - Trabeculectomy with mitomycin C versus Ahmed glaucoma implant with mitomycin C for treatment of pediatric aphakic glaucoma.
AB  - This randomized clinical trial demonstrated comparable safety and efficacy for MMC trabeculectomy and AGI in the treatment of pediatric aphakic glaucoma.

UI  - 18082889
TI  - Intraocular pressure fluctuation a risk factor for visual field progression at low intraocular pressures in the advanced glaucoma intervention study.
AB  - In the AGIS, long-term IOP fluctuation is associated with VF progression in patients with low mean IOP but not in patients with high mean IOP.

UI  - 18064055
TI  - Comparison of postoperative intraocular pressure in patients with Densiron-68 vs conventional silicone oil: a case-control study.
AB  - The use of Densiron-68 was associated with a higher IOP in the early postoperative period when compared with SO.

UI  - 18062165
TI  - [Changes of the thickness of the ciliary body after the latanoprost 0.005 % application].
AB  - In a randomized prospective open study the authors followed up the influence of latanoprost 0.005 % on the changes of the ciliary body thickness by means of ultrasound biomicroscopy. The study group consisted of 40 eyes of 24 patients with primary open angle glaucoma not treated with latanoprost before. At the entry visit and further after 2 and 8 weeks, according to the study protocol, a complex ophthalmologic examination was performed; especially anatomical relation between the cornea and the iris, configuration of the anterior chamber angle, and furthermore the best visual acuity for far and near, intraocular pressure measurement by means of applanation method, anterior chamber depth, and the pupil size. The thickness of the ciliary body was measured in the distance of 1,500 microm (T1), 2,000 microm (T2), and 2,500 microm (T3) from the scleral spur. A slight decrease of T1 comparing with the initial values was found: from 668 +/- 117 microm in the beginning, to 633 +/- 127 microm after two weeks, and 614 +/- 147 microm after eight weeks of treatment. In the case of T2 measurement, the situation is similar; the decrease of the values was smaller than in T1. The above-mentioned differences were not statistically significant. Practically no differences were found in the T3 measured values. The intraocular pressure during the follow-up decreased markedly - from 21.3 +/- 4.2 mm Hg to 18.8 +/-3.3 mm Hg (week 2) and 17.6 +/- 3.7 mm Hg (week 8). The average lowering of the intraocular pressure (IOP) by 2.5 mm Hg (i.e. by 11.7%) found between the initial values and values after two weeks of treatment was found as statistically significant (P-value = 0.0001) as well as the difference between the initial values and values after eight weeks of treatment. No statistical significant difference was found between IOP values measured after two and eight weeks of treatment. All other followed-up parameters (anterior chamber depth, size of the pupil, visual acuity, and external finding) remained during the eight weeks period unchanged. Our results are in the congruity with one of hypotheses of the latanoprost acting - compacting of the interstitium and following opening of the porosities among the muscles fibers bundles of the ciliary body cause the increase of the intraocular fluid outflow and marked decrease of the intraocular pressure. To explain the mechanisms affecting the ciliary body in detail, more studies are needed.

UI  - 18044479
TI  - [Additive therapy with carboanhydrase inhibitors for open angle glaucoma previously treated with timolol 0.5% drops].
AB  - Inhibitors of carboanhydrase (ICA) in the form of dorzolamide 2% drops and brinzolamide 1% drops are in use for 8-10 years, with a significant intraocular pressure (IOP) lowering effect. The goal of the present study was to obtain precise data on the efficacy of local ICA in conjunction with timolol 0.5% drops, and to evaluate the incidence of side effects. This was a prospective study that lasted 2 years and included 110 patients. Initial IOP values, before therapy with ICA, amounted to 19 +/- 8.4 mm Hg in group A and 20.5 +/- mm Hg in group B. Although the results obtained demonstrated statistically significant lowering of IOP (in group A by 4.5 +/- 2.4 mm Hg, and in group B by 4.6 +/- 2.1 mm Hg) after therapy with ICA, the difference between the groups was not found. Dorzolamide more frequently caused local side effects like aching, itching and pain in the eye. Aditional lowering of lOP in our patients was somewhat greater than reported before (4.6:4.3). Side effects (itching, aching, pain) were three times more frequent in the group treated with dorzolamide than reported by other authors; this difference could be due to patient age, as our patients were mostly elderly people and the data are subjective. The results of this study suggested the effectiveness of additional local therapy with ICA in patients with open angle glaucoma.

UI  - 18039347
TI  - Success rates for switching to dorzolamide/timolol fixed combination in timolol responders who are insufficiently controlled by latanoprost monotherapy.
AB  - This study suggests that patients who are insufficiently controlled on latanoprost monotherapy, and who are timolol responders, can generally achieve further IOP reduction and similar tolerance levels when changed to DTFC.

UI  - 18035191
TI  - A 6-week, multicenter, randomized, double-masked, parallel-group study comparing travoprost 0.004% to latanoprost 0.005% followed by 6-week, open-label treatment with travoprost 0.004%.
AB  - In this population of patients with OAG or OH, 6-week treatment with travoprost 0.004% was associated with a significantly greater decrease from baseline in pooled IOP compared with latanoprost 0.005% 20 hours after administration. There were no significant differences between the 2 groups. Travoprost and latanoprost were well tolerated.

UI  - 18028236
TI  - Predicting intraocular pressure change before initiating therapy: timolol versus latanoprost.
AB  - In clinical practice, timolol and latanoprost achieve similar IOP reductions that are comparable to those achieved in randomized trials. No clinically relevant information for glaucoma management can be used to predict IOP reduction accurately.

UI  - 18025650
TI  - The effect of ocular hypotensive agents on macula.
AB  - We evaluated the effect of long-term topical antiglaucoma drugs on the macula using the noninvasive macular visual field threshold test in 100 eyes of 75 patients with ocular hypertension or primary open-angle glaucoma. We found that topical antiglaucoma agents can alter macular sensitivity after long-term therapy and advise evaluation of the macula in glaucoma patients receiving antiglaucomatous agents.

UI  - 18004586
TI  - Circadian changes of intraocular pressure and ocular perfusion pressure after timolol or latanoprost in Caucasians with normal-tension glaucoma.
AB  - Latanoprost induces an IOP reduction greater than timolol, also achieving a better circadian flattening of the IOP curve. Only latanoprost significantly increased mean 24-hour OPP. The management of Caucasian NTG patients should be critically realized, considering the 24-hour influence of each IOP-lowering drug on the ocular blood perfusion.

UI  - 18001247
TI  - Comparison of the effects of latanoprost and bimatoprost on intraocular pressure in chronic angle-closure glaucoma.
AB  - Both latanoprost and bimatoprost significantly reduced IOP in CACG patients who were inadequately treated by laser peripheral iridotomy.

UI  - 17937041
TI  - Evaluation of the role of travoprost 0.004% ophthalmic solution in the management of open angle glaucoma and ocular hypertensive patients.
AB  - The results from this study support the concept that the majority of glaucoma patients, who are responding inadequately to other glaucoma therapies, could benefit from a change to travoprost monotherapy or from the addition of travoprost to their existing therapy.

UI  - 17919556
TI  - Use of a Bayesian network to predict the nighttime intraocular pressure peak from daytime measurements.
AB  - Daytime IOP measurements are highly intercorrelated. According to this BN, IOP at 1200 and 2000 hours are more strongly associated with the nighttime IOP peak than other IOP measurements. BN can estimate the risk of a nighttime IOP peak >18 mm Hg. Daytime IOP control was important for nighttime IOP control. These findings require validation in a clinical setting.

UI  - 17803433
TI  - Comparative evaluation of bimatoprost monotherapy in primary chronic angle closure and primary open angle glaucoma eyes: a three-year study.
AB  - This study showed that bimatoprost 0.03% monotherapy significantly lowers IOP in both POAG and PCACG eyes over a period of 3 years, though its efficacy appeared to decrease over time, to a similar extent, in both groups.

UI  - 17721497
TI  - Cost-effectiveness of latanoprost and timolol maleate for the treatment of glaucoma in Scandinavia and the United Kingdom, using a decision-analytic health economic model.
AB  - Over 5 years, in the UK timolol is the cost-effective option, whereas in Scandinavia latanoprost may be the cost-effective alternative to timolol.

UI  - 17680841
TI  - Comparison of the effects of travoprost, latanoprost and bimatoprost on ocular circulation: a 6-month clinical trial.
AB  - Our results suggest that the three PG analogues significantly reduce IOP and increase OPP in patients with POAG or OHT. Topical travoprost and latanoprost significantly reduce the RI of the CRA and OA, respectively. We were unable to determine any effect of topical bimatoprost on ocular haemodynamics.

UI  - 17601060
TI  - [Ocular hypotensive effect of 1% carteolol long-acting eye drops--a double-masked, randomized phase III study in ocular hypertension or primary open-angle glaucoma patients comparing long-acting carteolol eye drops vs. current product].
AB  - Because the efficacy of both drugs was equivalent, with an identical safety profile, the long-acting eye drops seem to be an efficacious formulation for clinical use in Japanese glaucoma patients.

UI  - 17571086
TI  - Twenty-four-hour efficacy of the brimonidine/timolol fixed combination versus therapy with the unfixed components.
AB  - This study suggests that both BTFC and the unfixed components of brimonidine and timolol provide a significant 24-h IOP reduction from untreated baseline, and statistically equal control when compared directly, at each time point and for the 24-h pressure curve.

UI  - 17570997
TI  - Effect of concomitant use of latanoprost and brinzolamide on 24-hour variation of IOP in normal-tension glaucoma.
AB  - For the treatment of NTG, the combination of latanoprost and brinzolamide demonstrated additive effects in lowering IOP, not only during the day, but also at night.

UI  - 17565929
TI  - Tolerability, quality of life, and persistency of use in patients with glaucoma who are switched to the fixed combination of latanoprost and timolol.
AB  - This study was undertaken to assess tolerability, quality of life, and persistency of use and to monitor changes in intraocular pressure (IOP) during the first 6 mo after a switch to fixed combination latanoprost/timolol. In Germany, 271 general ophthalmology practices enrolled patients who were switched from previous ocular hypotensive therapies to latanoprost/timolol for medical reasons. Usual care routines were followed, and IOP was measured at baseline and approximately 6 mo later. Adverse events were recorded throughout. Immediately before switching and at follow-up, patients completed a 29-item quality-of-life questionnaire. Of 1052 patients who met analysis criteria, 748 (71%) switched from combination therapy and 304 (29%) from monotherapy. An insufficient IOP reduction with the previous therapy was a reason for switching in 71% of patients; the desire to simplify to once-daily administration was cited in 66%. Ocular adverse events were reported in 19 patients after the switch, and 97% remained on therapy throughout the follow%up period. After switching, patients were less likely to forget to instill their eyedrops or to feel that their drops had adverse effects; they found it easier to include eyedrop administration in their routine; they were more satisfied with the frequency of instillation; and they were more likely to want to continue with the drops. Across all previous therapies, mean IOP decreased from 20.6+/-3.7 mm Hg to 17.2+/-2.8 mm Hg after the switch (P<.001)-a 14.8% difference. Fixed combination latanoprost/timolol is well tolerated and effective in patients who are switched from other monotherapies or combination therapies for medical reasons. Such a switch may be associated with improved quality of life.

UI  - 17565920
TI  - Ocular hypotensive efficacy of brimonidine 0.15% as adjunctive therapy with latanoprost 0.005% in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
AB  - This study was undertaken to evaluate the ocular hypotensive efficacy of brimonidine Purite 0.15% (Alphagan P 0.15%; Allergan, Inc., Irvine, Calif) given as adjunctive therapy with latanoprost 0.005% (Xalatan; Pfizer Inc., New York, NY( to patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension. In this multicenter, open-label, prospective evaluation, the intraocular pressure (IOP) of the 43 enrolled patients was > or =18 mm Hg after at least 6 wk of latanoprost monotherapy. The primary outcome measure was IOP at peak drug effect )10 AM, or approximately 2 h after the morning dose of brimonidine 0.15%(. IOP at trough drug effect (8 AM, or approximately 12 h after the evening dose of brimonidine) was also measured. Baseline IOP was 21.9 (+/-2.3) mm Hg. After 1 mo of treatment, additional mean IOP reductions from latanoprost-treated baseline values were 5.8 mm Hg (26%) at peak drug effect (P<.001) and 3.3 mm Hg (15%) at trough (P<.001). At the month 2 visit, additional mean IOP reductions from latanoprost-treated baseline values were 5.1 mm Hg (23%) at peak drug effect (P<.001) and 2.0 mm Hg (9%) at trough (P=.002). Brimonidine Purite 0.15% provided statistically significant additional reductions in IOP from latanoprost-treated baseline values. These findings suggest that brimonidine Purite 0.15% is an efficacious adjunctive therapy in patients given latanoprost who require additional lowering of IOP.

UI  - 17534814
TI  - Ocular symptoms and signs with preserved and preservative-free glaucoma medications.
AB  - Compared to preserved eyedrops, preservative free eyedrops are significantly less associated with ocular symptoms and signs of irritation.

UI  - 17519068
TI  - A comparison of the safety and intraocular pressure lowering of bimatoprost/timolol fixed combination versus latanoprost/timolol fixed combination in patients with open-angle glaucoma.
AB  - The results of this study showed a significantly higher IOP-lowering effect of a once-daily evening dose of the BTFC compared to that of a once-daily evening administration of the LTFC.

UI  - 17509688
TI  - Comparison of the ocular hypotensive efficacy of adjunctive brimonidine 0.15% or brinzolamide 1% in combination with travoprost 0.004%.
AB  - The combination of travoprost and brinzolamide was statistically significantly more efficacious than the combination of travoprost and brimonidine in lowering IOP. The clinical significance of this difference is uncertain.

UI  - 17508037
TI  - Special considerations in low-tension glaucoma.
AB  - Low-pressure (low-tension) glaucoma is reviewed in relation to neuroprotection, that is, the therapeutic strategy to keep neurons living and functionally connected to targets within the brain. Baseline results of the Low-Pressure Glaucoma Treatment Study (LoGTS) are reviewed.

UI  - 17505730
TI  - [Effects of reading, exercise and exercise combined with reading on intraocular pressure for patients sustaining primary glaucoma (open angle) or ocular hypertension, both clinically controlled with topic medication].
AB  - To read and to work out--either separately or jointly--does not pose an aggravating factor to the intraocular pressure of patients with primary open glaucoma or ocular hypertension, using prostaglandin, prostamide or beta-blocker analogues.

UI  - 17488455
TI  - The role of antimetabolites in filtration surgery for neovascular glaucoma: intermediate-term follow-up.
AB  - The percentage of patients who achieved postoperative IOP < 21 mmHg was similar in both groups, although a larger proportion of patients treated with MMC-augmented trabeculectomy required topical treatment in comparison with the 5-FU group.

UI  - 17473728
TI  - Effects of travoprost on aqueous humor dynamics in patients with elevated intraocular pressure.
AB  - Travoprost seems to lower IOP by increasing trabecular outflow facility. An effect on uveoscleral outflow cannot be ruled out.

UI  - 17459480
TI  - Comparison of the effects of bimatoprost and a fixed combination of latanoprost and timolol on circadian intraocular pressure.
AB  - Bimatoprost is not inferior to the LTFC in maintaining IOP at a controlled level during a 24-hour period in patients switched from the nonfixed combination of latanoprost and timolol.

UI  - 17437125
TI  - Efficacy and safety of intravenous injection of lidocaine in the treatment of acute primary angle-closure glaucoma: a pilot study.
AB  - From this preliminary study, intravenous injection of lidocaine seems to be safe and effective in controlling intraocular pressure and eliminating symptoms in acute PACG. But the exact efficacy and safety need further investigation in large case studies.

UI  - 17416939
TI  - A comparison of latanoprost monotherapy with a combination therapy of timolol/dorzolamide in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma.
AB  - We compared latanoprost monotherapy therapy with timolol/ dorzolamide in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma to evaluate the effects on intraocular pressure (IOP) and occurrence of adverse events. IOP and topical side effects were evaluated at the beginning, first, and third months. Mean IOP was decreased at the third month. The most common side effect was hyperemia (43.6%). We concluded that latanoprost reduces IOP better than fixed combination and its topical side effects are tolerable.

UI  - 17415690
TI  - A 1-year study to compare the efficacy and safety of once-daily travoprost 0.004%/timolol 0.5% to once-daily latanoprost 0.005%/timolol 0.5% in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
AB  - Travoprost 0.004%/timolol 0.5% ophthalmic solution produced mean IOP levels that are statistically noninferior to latanoprost 0.005%/timolol 0.5% ophthalmic solution. Furthermore, at 9:00 AM, 24 hours after dosing, IOP was statistically lower for travoprost 0.004%/timolol 0.5% pooled across all visits. Travoprost 0.004%/timolol 0.5% fixed combination ophthalmic solution is an effective treatment for reducing IOP and it is safe and well-tolerated in patients with OAG or OH.

UI  - 17386282
TI  - Influence of ocular hypotensive eyedrops on intraocular pressure fluctuation with postural change in eyes with normal-tension glaucoma.
AB  - The mechanism of action underlying the IOP change with the postural change is different from the pharmacologic action of these hypotensive agents.

UI  - 17361245
TI  - Latanoprost versus timolol gel-forming solution once daily in primary open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
AB  - Latanoprost is more effective than timolol GFS in reducing IOP, and patients switched from timolol GFS to latanoprost have a further significant reduction in IOP.

UI  - 17343668
TI  - Retrobulbar haemodynamic effects of the latanoprost/timolol and the dorzolamide/timolol fixed combinations in newly diagnosed glaucoma patients.
AB  - The objective of this study was to compare the effect of the latanoprost/timolol fixed combination (LTFC) and the dorzolamide/timolol fixed combination (DTFC) on the retrobulbar haemodynamic and intraocular pressure (IOP) in patents with open-angle glaucoma (OAG). This was a prospective, examiner masked, randomised and crossover study. Participants were 32 consecutive subjects, who met the inclusion/exclusion criteria, with newly diagnosed OAG. Patients were randomised to either LTFC or DTFC for the first 1-month treatment phase after a 1-month washout period, without medical treatment, patients began with the opposite treatment for the second 1-month treatment period. Colour Doppler parameters in ophthalmic artery (OA) and posterior ciliary arteries (PCA), ocular perfusion pressure, IOP and systemic haemodynamics were assessed at each baseline and at the end of each treatment period. The main outcomes include peak systolic velocity (PSV), end-diastolic velocity (EDV) and resistance index (RI) in OA and PCA. DTFC significantly increased EDV in OA from 7.55 (1.16) to 9.32 (1.22), p<0.0001, and in the PCA from 4.41 (0.70) to 5.36 (0.60), p<0.0001, and significantly decreased RI in OA from 0.775 (0.036) to 0.725 (0.032), p<0.0001, and in the PCA from 0.694 (0.045) to 0.634 (0.034). LTFC significantly decreased the EDV and significantly increased RI in PCA, p=0.0076 and p=0.0009, respectively. There were no statistical significant differences in the IOP lowering effect between both treatments. DTFC seems to have a beneficial vascular effect on retrobulbar vessels in OAG patients.

UI  - 17322603
TI  - A randomized, crossover, open label pilot study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of Xalatan in comparison with generic Latanoprost (Latoprost) in subjects with primary open angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
AB  - The magnitude of IOP lowering in patients with POAG and OH with Xalatan and Latoprost is different. In our study, the IOP lowering with Xalatan was higher than that with Latoprost.

UI  - 17294383
TI  - A double-masked, randomized, parallel comparison of a fixed combination of bimatoprost 0.03%/timolol 0.5% with non-fixed combination use in patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
AB  - The fixed combination of bimatoprost 0.03%/timolol 0.5% administered once daily was comparable in ocular hypotensive efficacy to the non-fixed combination. The lower propensity of the fixed combination to elicit conjunctival hyperemia suggests a superior comparative benefit/risk assessment of the fixed combination in the treatment of elevated IOP.

UI  - 17260669
TI  - Phase III long-term study and comparative clinical study of nipradilol ophthalmic solution in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension. Part 2.
AB  - 

UI  - 17244215
TI  - Comparison of the ocular hypotensive effects of bimatoprost and timolol-dorzolamide combination in patients with elevated intraocular pressure: a 6-month study.
AB  - The IOP-lowering efficacies of bimatoprost and timolol-dorzolamide combination were similar over a 6-month follow-up. Both bimatoprost and the timolol-dorzolamide combination were well tolerated. Bimatoprost can be used as a longterm monotherapy agent in the treatment of POAG and ocular hypertension.

UI  - 17238812
TI  - Comparison of the effects of latanoprost and travoprost on intraocular pressure in chronic angle-closure glaucoma.
AB  - Both latanoprost and travoprost significantly reduced IOP in our sample of CACG patients after peripheral iridotomy.

UI  - 17224758
TI  - Travoprost 0.004% with and without benzalkonium chloride: a comparison of safety and efficacy.
AB  - Travoprost 0.004% without BAC is equivalent to travoprost 0.004% with BAC in both safety and efficacy.

UI  - 17222989
TI  - Topical estrogen drops may be a new alternative in the treatment of glaucoma.
AB  - 

UI  - 17220049
TI  - Phase III long-term study and comparative clinical study of nipradilol ophthalmic solution in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension.
AB  - Nipradilol (CAS 81486-22-8) is a non-selective beta-blocker with alpha-1 blocking and nitroglycerin-like vasodilating activities. In the present communication, the long-term efficacy and safety of nipradilol were investigated and the efficacy, safety and utility of topical nipradilol and timolol (CAS 91524-16-2) were compared in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension. In the long-term study, nipradilol for 1 year (52 weeks) was performed by registration method. 67 out of 68 patients were subjected to analysis and 57 patients (83.8 %) completed 52-week instillation. 0.25 % nipradilol was applied twice daily to patients. As a result, intraocular pressure (IOP) decreased significantly by 4.0 mmHg to 4.8 mmHg compared with the baseline without tachyphylaxis. The incidence of adverse events was 12.5 % at 52 weeks by analysis with Kaplan-Meier life-table method. It showed no significant trend of increase after 3 months. In the multi-centered double-masked comparative randomized study, 0.25 % nipradilol was assigned to 96 patients and 0.5 % timolol to 100 patients. Each patient was instilled nipradilol or timolol twice daily for 8 weeks. IOP significantly decreased by 4.2 mmHg and by 4.7 mmHg at 8 weeks and the incidence of adverse events was 10.5 % and 12.1 % in the nipradilol and timolol group, respectively. No significant between-group difference in IOP reduction or incidence of adverse events was seen. Topical nipradilol showed long-term ocular hypotensive effects and clinical safety in a 52-week study, and its efficacy and safety equivalent to timolol was confirmed in a 8-week comparative study.

UI  - 17213000
TI  - Patients' and physicians' perceptions of the travoprost dosing aid: an open-label, multicenter study of adherence with prostaglandin analogue therapy for open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
AB  - The travoprost dosing aid was perceived to be effective in reminding this group of patients to take their medication as prescribed. In this study, the device was well accepted by both patients and physicians.

UI  - 17198011
TI  - Relationship between travoprost and central corneal thickness in ocular hypertension and open-angle glaucoma.
AB  - Treatment with travoprost decreased IOP significantly and was associated with CCT thinning, which had little or no effect on actual IOP decrease. In the OAG group, IOP decrease was found to be statistically smaller in patients with thicker corneas.

UI  - 17197028
TI  - Efficacy and safety of latanoprost versus travoprost in exfoliative glaucoma patients.
AB  - Latanoprost and travoprost both significantly reduce the 24-hour IOP from baseline in exfoliative glaucoma, but travoprost may demonstrate a greater hypotensive efficacy in the late afternoon.

UI  - 17192510
TI  - Comparison of the stability, efficacy, and adverse effect profile of the innovator 0.005% latanoprost ophthalmic solution and a novel cyclodextrin-containing formulation.
AB  - Recently, a new latanoprost ophthalmic solution containing cyclodextrins was developed. The purpose of the present work was to compare the stability, clinical efficacy, and adverse effect profile of this formulation with the innovator product. The innovator formulation was stable at 4 degrees C but exhibited degradation at higher temperatures, whereas the cyclodextrin-containing formulation was stable at temperatures up to 40 degrees C. Formulations were assayed in a randomized double-blind clinical study in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma and/or ocular hypertension. Both latanoprost ophthalmic solutions produced comparable reduction of intraocular pressure. Conjunctival hyperemia was observed in 11.9% and 11.3% of the patients treated with the innovator and the cyclodextrin-containing formulations, respectively. There were no significant differences between the 2 ophthalmic solutions in efficacy or in the measured adverse effect. It is concluded that these 2 latanoprost ophthalmic solutions yield comparable efficacy and adverse effect outcomes. The cyclodextrin-containing formulation, however, has an improved stability.

UI  - 17191187
TI  - The efficacy and safety of timolol maleate versus brinzolamide each given twice daily added to travoprost in patients with ocular hypertension or primary open-angle glaucoma.
AB  - This study showed that brinzolamide provides similar safety and efficacy compared to timolol maleate when added to travoprost.

UI  - 17187138
TI  - Comparison between the 1% and 2% ibopamine provocative test in primary open-angle glaucoma patients: sensitivity, specificity and tolerability.
AB  - 2% ibopamine is recommended as a provocative test for glaucoma. Because both concentrations have similar ability to rise IOP, 1% ibopamine may be used to treat ocular hypotony.

UI  - 17165335
TI  - [The comparison study of glaucoma trabeculectomy applying amniotic membrane or mitomycin C].
AB  - Application properly HAM or MMC can improved the operation success rate, maintain the functional bleb long time and decreased the complications.

UI  - 17164574
TI  - Circadian intraocular pressure control with dorzolamide versus timolol maleate add-on treatments in primary open-angle glaucoma patients using latanoprost.
AB  - Both of the combinations are effective in lowering IOP, the exact amount and percentage of reduction is greater with the latanoprost + dorzolamide regimen, especially at night-time.

UI  - 17159028
TI  - Cataract extraction in the collaborative initial glaucoma treatment study: incidence, risk factors, and the effect of cataract progression and extraction on clinical and quality-of-life outcomes.
AB  - Initial surgery places a patient with glaucoma at a higher risk of CE. The impact of CE on visual field indexes is mixed-the mean deviation improved but the pattern standard deviation worsened. Most, but not all, VS-QOL subscales were responsive to worsening of cataract prior to and acute improvement in vision after CE.

UI  - 17157592
TI  - Prevention of dermatologic side effects of bimatoprost 0.03% topical therapy.
AB  - The reduction of the drop-skin contact affects the regional incidence and the extent of dermatologic skin changes that are related to bimatoprost 0.03% topical therapy.

UI  - 17141318
TI  - Visual field and intraocular pressure asymmetry in the low-pressure glaucoma treatment study.
AB  - Intraocular pressure asymmetry is unrelated to VF asymmetry in the Low-Pressure Glaucoma Treatment Study, suggesting an unclear pathogenic relationship between IOP and glaucomatous damage in eyes with LPG.

UI  - 17124241
TI  - Diurnal IOP control with bimatoprost versus latanoprost in exfoliative glaucoma: a crossover, observer-masked, three-centre study.
AB  - This crossover study suggests that better diurnal IOP control is obtained with bimatoprost than with latanoprost in patients with XFG.

UI  - 17106597
TI  - Allergic contact dermatitis due to beta-blockers in eye drops: a retrospective analysis of multicentre surveillance data 1993-2004.
AB  - Topically applied ophthalmic drugs are a potential cause of allergic contact dermatitis of the periorbital region. The objectives of this study were to assess the frequency and spectrum of contact allergy to topically applied beta-blocker containing eye drops. Data of the Information Network of Departments of Dermatology (IVDK) collected between 1993 and 2004 was analysed. Out of 112,430 patch-tested patients, 332 had been tested with their own topical anti-glaucoma eye drops containing different beta-blockers because of suspected allergic contact dermatitis. The frequency of positive test reactions was related to exposure intensity, as estimated by annual prescription rates in Germany. A total of 43/332 (12.95%) showed at least one positive patch test reaction. Positive reactions were observed to products containing timolol (n = 21), metipranolol (n = 13) and levobunolol (n = 11) without conceivable cross-reactivity. Whereas exposure to beta-blocker-containing eye drops remained stable over the years, as estimated by the prescription rates, a slight, non-significant increase in positive patch-reactions to these substances was noted. This is the first systematic analysis of a large set of data on patients' own beta-blocker topical medications, the results indicating that contact allergy should be considered as important, if rare, adverse event caused by this family of drugs.

UI  - 17102001
TI  - 24-Hour control with a latanoprost-timolol fixed combination vs timolol alone.
AB  - The evening-dosed latanoprost-timolol fixed combination may provide better IOP control than timolol alone over 24 hours and may demonstrate a narrower range of IOP fluctuation in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma.

UI  - 17097736
TI  - Fluctuation of intraocular pressure and glaucoma progression in the early manifest glaucoma trial.
AB  - These results confirm our earlier finding that elevated IOP is a strong factor for glaucoma progression, with the HR increasing by 11% for every 1 mmHg of higher IOP. Intraocular pressure fluctuation was not an independent factor in our analyses, a finding that conflicts with some earlier reports. One explanation for the discrepancy is that our analyses did not include postprogression IOP values, which would be biased toward larger fluctuations because of more intensive treatment. In contrast, in this EMGT report, no changes in patient management occurred during the period analyzed.

UI  - 17076978
TI  - Comparing bimatoprost and travoprost in black Americans.
AB  - Bimatoprost and travoprost each effectively lowered IOP in this population of black patients. More patients achieved clinically relevant IOP reductions with bimatoprost.

UI  - 17076630
TI  - A comparative analysis of the effects of the fixed combination of timolol and dorzolamide versus latanoprost plus timolol on ocular hemodynamics and visual function in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma.
AB  - Fixed combination of timolol and dorzolamide therapy might increase blood flow in OAG patients while attaining a similar IOP reduction compared to latanoprost plus timolol. Visual function, however, was not different in this short-term comparison between the two treatments.

UI  - 17065498
TI  - Short-term effects of latanoprost on anterior chamber depth in patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
AB  - These findings suggest that latanoprost decreases ACD in patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension after 1 month of treatment.

UI  - 17063425
TI  - [Early effects of systemic and intravitreal bevacizumab (avastin) therapy for neovascular age-related macular degeneration].
AB  - The early treatment responses following systemic and intravitreal bevacizumab appear to be similar. Both groups show improvement in VA and decrease in CRT within 1 week and up to 3 months. Long-term follow-up is required to evaluate the safety and treatment durability of both treatment modalities using bevacizumab.

UI  - 17026606
TI  - Effect of Proview self-tonometry on pharmaceutical compliance.
AB  - The use of the Proview Eye Pressure Monitor use did not improve but appeared to hinder compliance with glaucoma treatment in this study.

UI  - 17016527
TI  - Canadian Glaucoma Study: 1. Study design, baseline characteristics, and preliminary analyses.
AB  - We describe the study design and baseline patient characteristics of the Canadian Glaucoma Study and present some preliminary results. This long and close follow-up of a large group of patients will reveal the importance of several systemic factors for the progression of glaucoma.

UI  - 16988594
TI  - Effect of sublingual application of cannabinoids on intraocular pressure: a pilot study.
AB  - A single 5 mg sublingual dose of Delta-9-THC reduced the IOP temporarily and was well tolerated by most patients. Sublingual administration of 20 mg CBD did not reduce IOP, whereas 40 mg CBD produced a transient increase IOP rise.

UI  - 16968583
TI  - Comparison of the efficacy and safety of travoprost with a fixed-combination of dorzolamide and timolol in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
AB  - Travoprost monotherapy provided better efficacy in terms of IOP reduction and percentage of IOP reduction compared to dorzolamide 2.0%/timolol maleate 0.5% fixed combination.

UI  - 16968577
TI  - Travoprost versus latanoprost combinations in glaucoma: economic evaluation based on visual field deficit progression.
AB  - The use of clinical trial data may limit the applicability of these findings. However, this analysis of direct medical costs only is likely a conservative estimate of the costs associated with visual field deficits.

UI  - 16968572
TI  - Circadian IOP-lowering efficacy of travoprost 0.004% ophthalmic solution compared to latanoprost 0.005%.
AB  - Mean IOP values were significantly lower for patients on travoprost for the majority of time points in the supine position.

UI  - 16968567
TI  - Ocular hypotensive efficacy and safety of brinzolamide ophthalmic suspension 1% added to travoprost ophthalmic solution 0.004% therapy in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
AB  - Patients receiving combined travoprost ophthalmic solution 0.004% and brinzolamide ophthalmic suspension 1% therapy had lower IOP values compared to those on travoprost monotherapy (p < 0.0001). Combined therapy resulted in a significantly greater percentage of patients achieving IOPs of 18 mmHg or less (p < 0.0001).

UI  - 16966616
TI  - Twice-daily 0.2% brimonidine-0.5% timolol fixed-combination therapy vs monotherapy with timolol or brimonidine in patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension: a 12-month randomized trial.
AB  - Fixed brimonidine-timolol is an effective and convenient IOP-lowering therapy.

UI  - 16954712
TI  - Effects of latanoprost and betaxolol on cardiovascular and respiratory status of newly diagnosed glaucoma patients.
AB  - Both latanoprost and betaxolol are safe concerning respiratory functions. Betaxolol may cause small changes in the cardiovascular system, suggesting that blood pressure and pulse rates should be checked before and in regular intervals after prescribing it for the elderly. Latanoprost seems to be a safe medication in view of absence of systemic cardiovascular and respiratory side effects.

UI  - 16949445
TI  - The association between glaucomatous visual fields and optic nerve head features in the Ocular Hypertension Treatment Study.
AB  - Both the VF and the optic disc must be monitored with equal diligence, because either may show the first evidence of glaucomatous damage. Changes in the ONH based on stereophotographic observation (rim thinning, hemorrhage, or a slight increase in C/D ratio) and VF changes (evidence of a nasal step/partial arcuate defect or an increase in PSD) suggest that these cases have an increased risk of developing glaucoma. Confirmation of such subtle findings should be sought through repeat testing and correlation with other clinical results.

UI  - 16936646
TI  - The effects of prostaglandin analogues on the blood aqueous barrier and corneal thickness of phakic patients with primary open-angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension.
AB  - Latanoprost, travoprost, and bimatoprost had no statistically significant effect on the blood-aqueous barrier of phakic patients with POAG or OHT. Bimatoprost may be associated with a clinically irrelevant reduction in mean CCT.

UI  - 16912020
TI  - A 3-month clinical trial comparing the IOP-lowering efficacy of bimatoprost and latanoprost in patients with normal-tension glaucoma.
AB  - This multicenter, randomized, double-blind clinical trial was undertaken to compare the intraocular pressure (IOP)-lowering efficacy and safety of topical bimatoprost 0.03% with that of latanoprost 0.005% for the treatment of patients with normal-tension glaucoma. After washout of all ocular hypotensive medications, patients with normal-tension glaucoma (n=60) were randomly assigned to oncedaily bimatoprost 0.03% or latanoprost 0.005% for 3 mo. Diurnal IOP measurements were taken at each study visit. Primary outcome measures consisted of mean change from baseline IOP (8 AM, Noon, 4 PM) and change in visual field. Secondary measures included mean IOP, ophthalmologic examination findings, results of clinical evaluation, and adverse events. Mean change from baseline IOP at each study visit was statistically significant at all diurnal measurements for patients taking bimatoprost and for those taking latanoprost (P<.001). The 8 AM mean change from baseline IOP measurement showed a significant between-group difference (P< or =.033) in favor of bimatoprost at both follow-up visits. After 3 mo of treatment, mean IOP reductions from baseline ranged from 2.8 to 3.8 mm Hg (17.5%-21.6%) with bimatoprost and from 2.1 to 2.6 mm Hg (12.7%-16.2%) with latanoprost. Overall mean reduction in IOP after 3 mo of treatment was 3.4 mm Hg (19.9% rpar; with bimatoprost and 2.3 mm Hg (14.6%) with latanoprost (P=.035). No significant between-group differences were observed in incidence of adverse events, clinical success, or demographic variables. Bimatoprost was found to be more effective than latanoprost in lowering IOP in the patient with normal-tension glaucoma. Both drugs were efficacious and well tolerated.

UI  - 16899920
TI  - Red blood cell (RBC) surface acetylcholinesterase showing a hemorheological pattern during glaucoma treatment.
AB  - These data indicate that CAI and PG drugs do not interfere with AchE in POAG patients, whereas beta-blockers negatively affect the RBC deformability.

UI  - 16885890
TI  - [Efficacy of first- or second-line latanoprost on intraocular pressure and ocular symptoms in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension].
AB  - Latanoprost given as first or second-line treatment at the recommended dose effectively decreases IOP in patients with OAG or OHT. This treatment also improves visual and nonvisual symptoms in previously treated patients and presents a good safety profile.

UI  - 16885801
TI  - [Management of ocular hypertension and chronic open-angle glaucoma by French ophthalmologists: the role of target intraocular pressure].
AB  - This study shows that the determination of target IOP is becoming increasingly important in the therapeutic decision and follow-up in the routine practice of French ophthalmologists.

UI  - 16877072
TI  - The safety and intraocular pressure-lowering efficacy of brimonidine tartrate 0.15% preserved with polyquaternium-1.
AB  - Brimonidine PQ is equivalent in IOP-lowering efficacy and safety to brimonidine P.

UI  - 16865013
TI  - Additive effect of dorzolamide or carteolol to latanoprost in primary open-angle glaucoma: a prospective randomized crossover trial.
AB  - Both dorzolamide and carteolol reduce IOP additively when used in combination with latanoprost, and the additive effect of these drugs is equal.

UI  - 16848200
TI  - [Use of antiglaucoma therapy to reduce acute intraocular pressure rise following neodymium: YAG laser iridotomy in angle-closure glaucoma patients].
AB  - Local antiglaucoma therapy may reduce the acute IOP rise following Yag laser iridotomy in PACG eyes.

UI  - 16848197
TI  - [Combined therapy in glaucoma treatment: travoprost 0.004% and brinzolamid].
AB  - The study showed travoprost 0.004% combined with brinzolamide 1% to provide a statistically significant reduction (p < 0.001) in intraocular pressure in patients who could not been successfully treated with timolol 0.5% and brinzolamide 1%.

UI  - 16825272
TI  - Intraocular pressure-lowering efficacy of bimatoprost 0.03% and travoprost 0.004% in patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
AB  - Bimatoprost provided greater mean IOP reductions than travoprost.

UI  - 16799034
TI  - Effects of topical hypotensive drugs on circadian IOP, blood pressure, and calculated diastolic ocular perfusion pressure in patients with glaucoma.
AB  - Latanoprost seemed to induce a uniform reduction in IOP during the 24-hour period, although timolol was as effective as latanoprost during the daytime, and dorzolamide are as effective as latanoprost at night. SBP and DBP were significantly decreased by either timolol or brimonidine. In this study of patients with newly diagnosed POAG, only dorzolamide and latanoprost significantly increased mean 24-hour DOPP.

UI  - 16778647
TI  - An evaluation of the rate of nonresponders to latanoprost therapy.
AB  - This multicenter prospective study found only 14 of 340 nonresponders to latanoprost. In the cross-over trial on nonresponders, IOP reduction reached statistical significance only after brimonidine, but their small number reduced its statistical power.

UI  - 16769831
TI  - Effect of trabeculectomy on lens opacities in an East Asian population.
AB  - Trabeculectomy is associated with progression of lens opacity predominantly in the posterior subcapsular region. Modification of risk factors such as postoperative steroid use may delay progression.

UI  - 16765700
TI  - The effect of timolol-dorzolamide and timolol-pilocarpine combinations on ocular blood flow in patients with glaucoma.
AB  - The timolol-dorzolamide combination increases the end diastolic velocity in central retinal artery, despite a lower intraocular pressure decrease, suggesting an effect on retinal circulation.

UI  - 16761242
TI  - A comparison of morning and evening instillation of a combination travoprost 0.004%/timolol 0.5% ophthalmic solution.
AB  - Travoprost 0.004%/timolol 0.5% given once daily, either in the morning or evening, is a safe and effective treatment for open-angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension. It may be beneficial for patients judged to be inadequately controlled on a prostaglandin analogue or ophthalmic beta-blocker alone.

UI  - 16751034
TI  - The Ahmed shunt versus the Baerveldt shunt for refractory glaucoma II: longer-term outcomes from a single surgeon.
AB  - No differences were observed in longer term survival rates and IOP profiles between Ahmed and Baerveldt shunt implants up to 48 months following surgery. Patients in the Baerveldt group were more likely to develop early postoperative hypotony-related complications and failure, whereas patients undergoing Ahmed implants were more likely to be on additional glaucoma medications (starting at 18 months postsurgery) and develop later onset failure.

UI  - 16750466
TI  - A randomized, investigator-masked, 4-week study comparing timolol maleate 0.5%, brinzolamide 1%, and brimonidine tartrate 0.2% as adjunctive therapies to travoprost 0.004% in adults with primary open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
AB  - Brinzolamide 1% and timolol maleate 0.5% treatment were both associated with a significantly greater reduction in IOP compared with brimonidine 0.2% when administered as a nonfixed adjuvant to travoprost 0.004% in the treatment of patients with OAG and OHT whose IOP was inadequately controlled with travoprost monotherapy. All treatments were well tolerated.

UI  - 16750448
TI  - A 6-week, double-masked, parallel-group study of the efficacy and safety of travoprost 0.004% compared with latanoprost 0:005%/timolol 0.5% in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
AB  - Mean IOP changes from baseline for travoprost 0.004% and latanoprost 0.005%/timolol 0.5% fixed combination were not significantly different at follow-up in these patients. Both medications were well tolerated.

UI  - 16722793
TI  - Comparative analysis of the effects of brimonidine and dorzolamide on ocular blood flow velocity in patients with newly diagnosed primary open-angle glaucoma.
AB  - The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of brimonidine 0.2% and dorzolamide 2% on the ocular blood flow velocity in patients with newly diagnosed primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG). Forty-four (44) patients with newly diagnosed POAG were included in a prospective, comparative, randomized clinical study. Twenty-six (26) healthy volunteers, whose age and gender matched, were recruited to compare the baseline hemodynamic characteristics of the patients. After a complete eye examination, baseline blood flow velocity measurements of the retrobulbar vessels were made with color Doppler ultrasonography. Patients were randomly assigned to receive either brimonidine 0.2% or dorzolamide 2% for a 3-month period. Blood flow velocity measurements were repeated after 3 months. Both brimonidine and dorzolamide significantly reduced the intraocular pressure. The baseline ophthalmic artery pulsatility index was higher in patients with POAG than control subjects. Whereas there was a significant increase in peak systolic velocity of the central retinal artery, no significant change was observed in the other vessels with brimonidine and dorzolamide treatment. There was little difference, in terms of ocular blood flow velocity, between newly diagnosed glaucoma patients and control subjects. Both topical brimonidine and dorzolamide significantly reduced the intraocular pressure without altering ocular blood flow velocity in patients with newly diagnosed POAG.

UI  - 16709319
TI  - Adjunctive glaucoma therapy use associated with travoprost, bimatoprost, and latanoprost.
AB  - The use of adjunctive medications to control intraocular pressure was significantly higher for latanoprost patients compared to travoprost and bimatoprost patients. This finding should be interpreted in the context that this study was based only on prescription claims data. It is important to simplify ophthalmic medical regimen as it is more cost effective, better for the patient, and minimizes the washout effect from administering two eye medications within 5 min. Decreasing the complexity of the patients' drug regimen may lead to increased adherence to prescribed therapy and a decreased risk of the incidence of blindness.

UI  - 16681060
TI  - The efficacy of unoprostone isopropyl as an adjunct to topical beta-blocker in patients with open angle glaucoma: a-6-month study.
AB  - Topical unoprostone isopropyl beneficially provides additive IOP lowering effect to topical beta-blocker in patients with primary open angle glaucoma. No serious systemic side effects were found in the present study.

UI  - 16650671
TI  - Clinical experience with the Baerveldt 250-mm2 Glaucoma Implant.
AB  - The Baerveldt 250-mm2 Glaucoma Implant provides good intermediate-term success for the treatment of adult refractory glaucoma.

UI  - 16650670
TI  - 24-hour intraocular pressure control with maximum medical therapy compared with surgery in patients with advanced open-angle glaucoma.
AB  - This study suggests that a well-functioning trabeculectomy provides a statistically lower mean, peak, and range of IOP for the 24-hour day than maximum tolerated medical therapy in advanced glaucoma patients.

UI  - 16650669
TI  - Subconjunctival sodium hyaluronate 2.3% in trabeculectomy: a prospective randomized clinical trial.
AB  - There was no difference in success rates in patients who received subconjunctival sodium hyaluronate 2.3% compared to BSS injections. Subconjunctival sodium hyaluronate 2.3% was associated with more diffuse blebs after filtering surgery.

UI  - 16644608
TI  - Prospective comparative switch study from timolol 0.5% and latanoprost 0.005% to bimatoprost 0.03%.
AB  - This prospective study compared intraocular pressure (IOP) control, cardiorespiratory function, and adverse effects in 50 patients with glaucoma and ocular hypertension. Patients on topical combination timolol-latanoprost therapy were recruited. After they had used this combination for at least 2 months, they were switched to bimatoprost monotherapy. Full ocular examination and spirometric testing were performed; a questionnaire concerned with ocular symptoms was completed, and pulse rate was recorded. Two months later, mean IOP was similar with the combination (17.2 mm Hg) and with bimatoprost (16.4 mm Hg), but mean peak expiratory flow rate, ratio of forced expiratory volume in 1 second to forced vital capacity, and heart rate had increased significantly after the switch was made to bimatoprost. Adverse effects generally were similar with these regimens; however, the incidence of hyperemia doubled after the switch had been made. Bimatoprost and the timolol-latanoprost combination were equally efficacious in lowering IOP; bimatoprost had less of an effect on cardiorespiratory function.

UI  - 16633226
TI  - Selective laser trabeculoplasty as initial and adjunctive treatment for open-angle glaucoma.
AB  - Selective laser trabeculoplasty was found to be equally efficacious as latanoprost in reducing intraocular pressure in newly diagnosed open-angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension over 12 months, independent of angle pigmentation. Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory therapy had similar efficacy to steroids after laser therapy. These findings support the consideration of selective laser trabeculoplasty as a first-line treatment for newly diagnosed open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension.

UI  - 16633221
TI  - Prospective evaluation of preoperative factors associated with successful mitomycin C needling of failed filtration blebs.
AB  - Mitomycin C needling revision appears to have a high long-term success rate. Surgery performed less than 4 months previously contributes to the success of the initial mitomycin C needling procedure.

UI  - 16628416
TI  - Improved systemic safety and risk-benefit ratio of topical 0.1% timolol hydrogel compared with 0.5% timolol aqueous solution in the treatment of glaucoma.
AB  - Drug-induced changes in the peak heart rate, and head-up tilt test results as well as plasma concentrations of timolol, were significantly more pronounced after treatment with 0.5% aqueous timolol than with 0.1% timolol hydrogel. Because of the statistically similar IOP-reducing efficacy of these formulations the risk-benefit ratio was significantly improved when patients used 0.1% timolol hydrogel instead of 0.5% aqueous timolol.

UI  - 16622086
TI  - Comparison of a non-preserved 0.1% T-Gel eye gel (single dose unit) with a preserved 0.1% T-Gel eye gel (multidose) in ocular hypertension and glaucomatous patients.
AB  - The overall study results demonstrated that T-Gel 0.1% SDU is not inferior to T-Gel 0.1% MD.

UI  - 16547336
TI  - Outcome of graft free Molteno tube insertion.
AB  - This simplified method for the insertion of Molteno implants eliminates the need for a donor scleral graft while maintaining the implant's ability to control intraocular pressure.

UI  - 16544116
TI  - Changes in glaucoma treatment and achieved IOP after introduction of new glaucoma medication.
AB  - This study shows a change in process of glaucoma treatment and lower achieved IOP after new glaucoma drugs had become available.

UI  - 16536109
TI  - Efficacy and safety of bimatoprost for the treatment of open-angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension: a three-month, open-label study in community-based practices in Thailand.
AB  - The authors evaluated the effectiveness and safety of bimatoprost using an open-label, non-comparative, three-month, community-based surveillance study. Patients (n = 458) with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension received bimatoprost 0.03% ophthalmic solution as monotherapy, replacement therapy or adjunctive therapy. Bimatoprost produced a rapid, significant (p < 0.0001) reduction in intraocular pressure: monotherapy (34.6% reduction), replacement therapy (16.4% reduction); adjunctive therapy (24.1% reduction). Bimatoprost enabled more patients to achieve their pre-defined target intraocular pressure (p < 0.0001), compared to previous treatments, and significantly lowered intraocular pressure, regardless of the patients' baseline pressure level or history of pressure control. Bimatoprost was well-tolerated; the most commonly reported adverse event was conjunctival hyperaemia (19.9%). Most patients and ophthalmologists rated bimatoprost highly, compared to previously used treatments. The authors concluded that bimatoprost is an effective, well-tolerated treatment for lowering intraocular pressure in Thai patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension.

UI  - 16524126
TI  - [Axial length of the ocular globe and hypotensive effect in glaucoma therapy with prostaglandin analogs].
AB  - The IOP reduction with prostaglandin analogs monotherapy may also depend of the axial length of the ocular globe.

UI  - 16523158
TI  - [Observational survey on the use of dual therapy in ocular hypertension or glaucoma treatment].
AB  - This study has shown that the use of at least two active principles is a common practice in the treatment of glaucoma and ocular hypertension. An additive therapy is given in order to better control the intraocular pressure, mainly with a fixed combination.

UI  - 16518368
TI  - The effect of aspirin and warfarin therapy in trabeculectomy.
AB  - Aspirin appears to be safe to continue with during trabeculectomy. Patients on aspirin have an increased risk of hyphaema following trabeculectomy. This however does not appear to affect surgical outcome. Warfarinised patients are at risk of serious bleeding complications. They require careful monitoring pre- and postoperatively and are at risk of trabeculectomy failure.

UI  - 16513458
TI  - 24-hour intraocular pressure control obtained with evening- versus morning-dosed travoprost in primary open-angle glaucoma.
AB  - This study suggests that both morning and evening dosings of travoprost provide effective 24-hour IOP reduction. However, the evening dosing of travoprost demonstrates slightly greater daytime efficacy, with a narrower range of 24-hour pressure.

UI  - 16496249
TI  - A comparison of travoprost, latanoprost, and the fixed combination of dorzolamide and timolol in patients with pseudoexfoliation glaucoma.
AB  - The results demonstrated that DTFC is more effective in reducing IOP than latanoprost and travoprost. Latanoprost and travoprost had similar ocular hypotensive effects in patients with PXG. All three drugs were well tolerated; there were fewer ocular side effects attributable in the latanoprost group.

UI  - 16496247
TI  - Presentation and long-term follow-up of exfoliation glaucoma in Greece, Spain, Russia, and Hungary.
AB  - The severity of exfoliation glaucoma presentation and its course may differ within distinct geographic populations in Europe.

UI  - 16488953
TI  - Effect of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory ophthalmic solution on intraocular pressure reduction by latanoprost in patients with primary open angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
AB  - NSAID ophthalmic solution may partly affect IOP reduction by latanoprost.

UI  - 16488952
TI  - Deep sclerectomy and low dose mitomycin C: a randomised prospective trial in west Africa.
AB  - The success rates of DS in black west African glaucoma patients, as performed in this study, were low. The study did not achieve sufficient power to detect whether low dose intraoperative MMC application can increase success rates of DS.

UI  - 16458964
TI  - Efficacy of latanoprost or fixed-combination latanoprost-timolol in patients switched from a combination of timolol and a nonprostaglandin medication.
AB  - Both latanoprost and fixed-combination latanoprost-timolol may be viable substitutes for timolol and another nonprostaglandin medication in glaucoma or ocular hypertension patients.

UI  - 16458700
TI  - Nimesulide oral administration increases the intraocular pressure-lowering effect of latanoprost in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma.
AB  - In patients with primary open-angle glaucoma, single-dose nimesulide significantly enhances the latanoprost-induced IOP-lowering effects during the short plasma half-life of this non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug.

UI  - 16458092
TI  - Comparison of the effects of latanoprost, travoprost, and bimatoprost on circadian intraocular pressure in patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
AB  - From a clinical point of view, the overall results seem to indicate that the 3 prostaglandin analogs are powerful agents in controlling round-the-clock IOP in POAG and OH patients.

UI  - 16453185
TI  - Comparison of the additive effects of nipradilol and carteolol to latanoprost in open-angle glaucoma.
AB  - Both nipradilol and carteolol have additive effects when used in combination with latanoprost. Carteolol, however, may have a more potent effect than nipradilol.

UI  - 16408674
TI  - Comparative analysis of the efficacy and safety of latanoprost, travoprost and the fixed combination timolol-dorzolamide; a prospective, randomized, masked, cross-over design study.
AB  - Travoprost, latanoprost and the fixed combination timolol-dorzolamide are efficient in the treatment of primary open angle glaucoma. The prostaglandin derivatives determined similar IOP decrease, which was superior to the fixed combination timolol-dorzolamide; the local tolerance was good, the fixed combination causing the fewest side effects.

UI  - 16393432
TI  - A comparison of the effects of 0.005% latanoprost and fixed combination dorzolamide/timolol on retrobulbar haemodynamics in previously untreated glaucoma patients.
AB  - Over a treatment period of 1 month, only the fixed combination dorzolamide/timolol seems to have a vascular effect on retrobulbar vessels. Further research is necessary to confirm these results.

UI  - 16386090
TI  - Comparison of latanoprost monotherapy and combined therapy of 0.5% timolol and 1% dorzolamide in chronic primary angle-closure glaucoma (CACG) in Japanese patients.
AB  - To compare the efficacy, adverse effects, and patient compliance of latanoprost monotherapy with unfixed combination therapy with 0.5% timolol maleate and 1% dorzolamide in the treatment of chronic primary angle-closure glaucoma (CACG), 36 Japanese patients with CACG following laser iridotomy (LPI) were treated for 12 weeks with instillation of latanoprost alone or with unfixed combination therapy of 0.5% timolol maleate and 1% dorzolamide hydrochloride. After 12 weeks of treatment, latanoprost reduced intraocular pressure (IOP) from 22.2 +/- 2.0 mmHg to 14.8 +/- 1.9 mmHg (33% reduction); timolol maleate and dorzolamide hydrochloride also reduced IOP from 22.5 +/- 2.2 mmHg to 17.1 +/- 2.7 mmHg (24% reduction). Latanoprost monotherapy significantly lowered IOP compared with unfixed combination therapy of 0.5% timolol maleate and 1% dorzolamide hydrochloride. Furthermore, a systemic adverse effect of bradycardia was not observed in the latanoprost monotherapy group. Concerning compliance, no significant difference was observed between the two groups. Thus, latanoprost monotherapy is more effective than unfixed combination therapy with 0.5% timolol maleate and 1% dorzolamide in the treatment of CACG following relief of pupillary block in Japanese patients.

UI  - 16386089
TI  - Comparison of the effects of brimonidine 0.2% and timolol 0.5% on retinal nerve fiber layer thickness in ocular hypertensive patients: a prospective, unmasked study.
AB  - There appear to be less progression for RNFL damage following brimonidine 0.2% therapy compared to timolol 0.5% in ocular hypertensive patients over 1 year. This finding does not correlate with IOP reduction.

UI  - 16368044
TI  - Influence of switching to travoprost on intraocular pressure of uncontrolled chronic open-angle glaucoma patients compliant to previously-used topical medication.
AB  - Travoprost provided a clinically and statistically significant IOP decrease in uncontrolled COAG patients whose self-reported compliance to their previous topical medication was optimal. Our results suggest that the IOP reduction found after switching to travoprost is not explainable by improved compliance due to the clinical study situation.

UI  - 16307705
TI  - A Markov modelled pharmacoeconomic analysis of bimatoprost 0.03% in the treatment of glaucoma as an alternative to filtration surgery in Italy.
AB  - The analysis shows that in a 4-year perspective bimatoprost is cheaper compared to FS. In addition, the postponement of FS associated with bimatoprost may have important implications for waiting list planning.

UI  - 16263174
TI  - A 12-week, randomized, double-masked, multicenter study of the fixed combination of latanoprost and timolol in the evening versus the individual components.
AB  - The fixed combination of latanoprost and timolol administered once daily in the evening is not inferior to the unfixed combination of latanoprost once daily in the evening and timolol twice daily. The fixed combination provides an effective and well-tolerated alternative to multiple instillations.

UI  - 16254590
TI  - A 6-month assessment of bimatoprost 0.03% vs timolol maleate 0.5%: hypotensive efficacy, macular thickness and flare in ocular-hypertensive and glaucoma patients.
AB  - Bimatoprost 0.03% once daily showed a greater efficacy then timolol 0.05% twice daily in patients with elevated IOP. No significant differences were detected in macular thickness or anterior uveitis using optical coherence tomography and laser flare photometry.

UI  - 16249960
TI  - Electrophysiological assessment of glaucomatous visual dysfunction during treatment with cytidine-5'-diphosphocholine (citicoline): a study of 8 years of follow-up.
AB  - In this study we assessed, by simultaneous recordings of visual evoked potentials (VEPs) and pattern-electroretinograms (PERGs), the effects cytidine-5'-diphosphocholine (citicoline) on retinal function and/or visual cortical responses in glaucoma patients. Thirty glaucoma patients were randomly divided into two age-matched groups: patients in group GC (15 patients) were treated with citicoline (1,000 mg/die intramuscularly) for 2 months; patients in group GP (15 patients) were treated with placebo for 2 months. After 4 months of wash-out (month 6), GC patients underwent a further 2-month period of citicoline treatment (months 7-8) followed by another 4-month period of wash-out (months 9-12). In GP patients the wash-out was extended for a further 6 months (months 7-12). During the following 13-96 months, GC patients received additional 2-month periods of treatment with citicoline (each period followed by 4 months of wash-out) for a total of 16 periods in 8 years. GP patients were also examined at months 24, 26, 48, 60, 72, 84 and 96. In GC patients the first two treatments with citicoline induced a significant (p <0.01) improvement of VEP and PERG parameters with respect to pre-treatment conditions. VEPs and PERGs recorded in GC patients after the first wash-out revealed that, although there was a worsening trend, the electrophysiological improvement was still maintained with respect to baseline conditions. The additional periods of citicoline treatment in GC patients during the subsequent 13-96 months induced a greater (p <0.01) improvement of VEP and PERG parameters with respect to pre-treatment conditions and when compared to GP patients. Thus, we observed that citicoline significantly improves retinal and cortical bioelectrical responses in glaucoma patients, suggesting a potential use of this substance in the medical treatment of glaucoma, as a complement to hypotensive therapy.

UI  - 16245966
TI  - The efficacy and ocular discomfort of substituting brinzolamide for dorzolamide in combination therapy with latanoprost, timolol, and dorzolamide.
AB  - Substituting brinzolamide for dorzolamide maintained stable IOP with improvement in ocular comfort in patients with glaucoma.

UI  - 16234442
TI  - A randomised, prospective study comparing selective laser trabeculoplasty with latanoprost for the control of intraocular pressure in ocular hypertension and open angle glaucoma.
AB  - Success rates were higher with latanoprost 0.005% at night than with 90 degrees and 180 degrees SLT treatments. 90 degrees SLT is generally not effective. 360 degrees SLT appears to be an effective treatment with approximately 60% of eyes achieving an IOP reduction of 30% or more. Transient anterior uveitis with associated ocular discomfort is not unusual in the first few days after SLT. Late complications causing ocular morbidity after SLT were not encountered.

UI  - 16215540
TI  - South-East Scotland trabeculectomy survey.
AB  - Our study highlights significant changes in the practice and outcome of trabeculectomy compared to the national survey conducted a decade ago.

UI  - 16200053
TI  - Role of early trabeculectomy in primary open-angle glaucoma in the developing world.
AB  - There is a reasonable acceptance of early surgery in POAG patients in the developing world and increases on educating patients about their disease. Early surgery offers better IOP control with no long-term subjective adverse effects.

UI  - 16170119
TI  - Effect of dorzolamide and timolol on ocular blood flow in patients with primary open angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension.
AB  - This study indicates augmented blood flow in the optic nerve head and choroid after 6 months of treatment with dorzolamide, but not with timolol. It remains to be established whether this effect can help to reduce visual field loss in patients with glaucoma.

UI  - 16167288
TI  - 12-week study comparing the fixed combination of brimonidine and timolol with concomitant use of the individual components in patients with glaucoma and ocular hypertension.
AB  - Brimonidine/timolol fixed-combination therapy is as safe and effective as concomitant treatment with the individual components. Its simplified dosing regimen has the potential to improve compliance.

UI  - 16167287
TI  - Naturalistic, prospective study of glaucoma and ocular hypertension treatment in France: Strategies, clinical outcomes, and costs at 2 years.
AB  - Insufficient IOP control and adverse drug reactions are the two main reasons for changing first-line treatment in patients with POAG or OH. After 2 years, second-line treatment with latanoprost, as monotherapy or combined with timolol, provides superior safety and persistency to treatment at an acceptable cost.

UI  - 16157799
TI  - Normal visual field test results following glaucomatous visual field end points in the Ocular Hypertension Treatment Study.
AB  - A VF POAG end point confirmed by 3 consecutive, abnormal, reliable VF test results appears to have greater specificity and stability than either 1 or 2 consecutive, abnormal, reliable VF test results. However, some eyes whose VF POAG end point was confirmed by 3 consecutive, abnormal, reliable test results nonetheless had 1 or more normal test results on follow-up.

UI  - 16157797
TI  - A randomized trial assessing dorzolamide in patients with glaucoma who are younger than 6 years.
AB  - Dorzolamide was generally well tolerated and demonstrated efficacy for up to 3 months in patients younger than 6 years.

UI  - 16148589
TI  - A three-month, multicenter, double-masked study of the safety and efficacy of travoprost 0.004%/timolol 0.5% ophthalmic solution compared to travoprost 0.004% ophthalmic solution and timolol 0.5% dosed concomitantly in subjects with open angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
AB  - A fixed combination of travoprost 0.004% and timolol 0.5% produced clinically relevant IOP reductions in patients with open angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension that were comparable to concomitant therapy with its components. Safety and tolerability of the fixed combination were also equivalent to concomitant therapy. Travoprost 0.004%/timolol 0.5% fixed combination offers IOP reduction equivalent to concomitant therapy, with potential benefits that include convenience (fewer bottles and drops per day), improved compliance, cost savings (based on fewer co-payments), and elimination of potential washout effects.

UI  - 16139003
TI  - Selective laser trabeculoplasty as a replacement for medical therapy in open-angle glaucoma.
AB  - SLT enabled a reduction in medicine in controlled OAG over 12 months.

UI  - 16117698
TI  - Brimonidine and timolol fixed-combination therapy versus monotherapy: a 3-month randomized trial in patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
AB  - The fixed combination of brimonidine and timolol was well-tolerated and provided significantly better IOP control compared with either brimonidine or timolol used alone.

UI  - 16117342
TI  - Effectiveness of latanoprost (Xalatan) monotherapy in newly discovered and previously medicamentously treated primary open angle glaucoma patients.
AB  - We evaluated the effectiveness of latanoprost (Xalatan) monotherapy in primary open angle glaucoma (POAG). Latanoprost is a prostaglandin analogue, the pure 15(R) epimer of 13,14-dihydro-17-phenyl-18,19,20-trinor-PGF2alpha-isopropyl ester. As a prodrug it is being activated by enzymatic hydrolysis in the cornea after which it becomes active acid of latanoprost. Latanoprost is lowering the intraocular pressure (IOP) by increasing the uveoscleral outflow. In this study, latanoprost was used once daily as monotherapy what offers much better compliance for the patients than other combinations of drugs, preserving good IOP control. Based on the significant reduction of the IOP, measured on the day 60 of the trial (mean change in IOP was -5.1 mmHg, with 95% confidence interval in range from -5.6 to -4.5), it is concluded that use of latanoprost is advisable when calculating better IOP control, few side-effects and reductions in costs of potential surgical procedures.

UI  - 16086946
TI  - Efficacy and safety of a fixed combination of travoprost 0.004%/timolol 0.5% ophthalmic solution once daily for open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
AB  - Travoprost/timolol combination produces greater IOP reductions than the positive control, timolol 0.5%, and reductions that were similar to concomitant travoprost + timolol. This study demonstrates that the fixed combination of travoprost/timolol produces significant and clinically relevant reductions of IOP in a once-daily dosing regimen.

UI  - 16075327
TI  - Effect of topical unoprostone isopropyl on optic nerve head circulation in controls and in normal-tension glaucoma patients.
AB  - These results showed that unoprostone significantly increased microcirculation in the ONH in control subjects and in NTG patients without reducing the IOP significantly.

UI  - 16021197
TI  - To compare argon laser peripheral iridoplasty (ALPI) against systemic medications in treatment of acute primary angle-closure: mid-term results.
AB  - There were no statistically significant differences in mean IOP and requirement for glaucoma drugs between APAC eyes treated with ALPI and systemic medications.

UI  - 16009829
TI  - Twenty-four-hour control with latanoprost-timolol-fixed combination therapy vs latanoprost therapy.
AB  - The result of this study suggests that the latanoprost-timolol-fixed combination compared with latanoprost therapy alone provides improved intraocular pressure reduction over the 24-hour diurnal curve and for each individual time point in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma.

UI  - 16003515
TI  - Comparison of carteolol plasmatic levels after repeated instillations of long-acting and regular formulations of carteolol 2% in glaucoma patients.
AB  - The data from this study showed that the systemic delivery of carteolol is lower for the once-daily LA formulation than for the regular twice-daily formulation. Consequently, long-acting carteolol eye-drops should reduce the risk of beta-blocking systemic side effects.

UI  - 16001381
TI  - Efficacy and safety of bimatoprost in patients with uncontrolled glaucoma as alternative to filtration surgery.
AB  - This preliminary study shows that bimatoprost 0.03% could represent a useful therapeutic tool that might defer filtration surgery.

UI  - 15990605
TI  - Timolol/dorzolamide combination therapy as initial treatment for intraocular pressure over 30 mm Hg.
AB  - Over 80% of the eyes responded to Cosopt, with an average trough IOP reduction of 40% at 2 months.

UI  - 15990081
TI  - The safety and efficacy of travoprost 0.004%/timolol 0.5% fixed combination ophthalmic solution.
AB  - Over the 3 months of treatment, Trav/Tim produced clinically relevant IOP reductions in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension that were greater than those produced by either Trav or Tim alone. The clinical results that Trav/Tim was safe and well tolerated with an incidence of adverse events was comparable to the results of Trav or Tim alone. Trav/Tim provides both more effective IOP reduction than its components and the benefits of once-daily dosing.

UI  - 15969642
TI  - Efficacy of the dorzolamide/timolol fixed combination versus latanoprost in the treatment of ocular hypertension or glaucoma: combined analysis of pooled data from two large randomized observer and patient-masked studies.
AB  - In previous analyses of primary efficacy data from two randomized clinical trials, standard dosing regimens of the dorzolamide/timolol fixed combination (COSOPT) and latanoprost (XALATAN) were shown to have equivalent efficacy with regard to reduction in mean daytime diurnal intraocular pressure (IOP). We performed additional post hoc analyses of pooled data from these studies to compare further the efficacy of the two treatments. The studies used identical 3-month, parallel group, randomized, observer-masked and patient-masked, multicenter designs. Patients with a baseline IOP > or = 24 mm Hg were randomized to either the 2% dorzolamide/0.5% timolol combination eye drops twice daily (n = 273) or 0.005% latanoprost eye drops once daily (n = 271). The IOP measurements were made at 8 AM, 10 AM, 2 PM, and 4 PM at the baseline visit and then on each of the 3 monthly assessment days. The following measures were analyzed on a post hoc basis: 1) percentages of patients meeting target levels of IOP reduction; 2) mean IOP reduction in those patients with high IOP (> or =30 mmHg) at baseline; 3) mean IOP at each of the assessment time points during a day. A total of 259 patients in the dorzolamide/timolol group and 268 patients in the latanoprost group were included in the efficacy analysis. At 3 months, both treatments showed similar efficacy with regard to the percentages of patients who achieved target levels of IOP reduction (e.g., 40% IOP reduction in 15% of dorzolamide/timolol combination patients and 13% of latanoprost patients), mean IOP reduction in those patients with high IOP at baseline (dorzolamide/ timolol combination, 12.5 mmHg, latanoprost, 12.6 mmHg), and mean IOP at each time point during the day. By the measures used in this analysis, the dorzolamide/timolol combination and latanoprost were equally effective at lowering IOP in patients with ocular hypertension or glaucoma.

UI  - 15949795
TI  - The influence of diclofenac ophthalmic solution on the intraocular pressure-lowering effect of topical 0.5% timolol and 0.005% latanoprost in primary open-angle glaucoma patients.
AB  - The aim of this randomized, prospective, masked clinical study has been to verify the influence of a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug ophthalmic solution on intraocular pressure reduction induced by 0.5% timolol and 0.005% latanoprost eyedrops in patients affected by primary open-angle glaucoma. Thirty-two glaucomatous patients, compensated with 0.5% timolol, were randomized into two study groups (A and B). Timolol was continued for the first 2 weeks in all subjects. On the 15th day, in both groups timolol was replaced by latanoprost, and this regimen lasted up to the end of the follow-up (8 weeks). At the beginning of the 2nd week of the study, group A additionally started a 5-week therapy with topical 0.1% diclofenac; during the same period, group B received placebo eyedrops with identical modalities. Intraocular pressure was recorded at 7-day intervals during the first 7 weeks and at the 10th week. Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug and placebo did not modify the effect of timolol on intraocular pressure. In both groups, latanoprost induced a significant decrease in intraocular pressure. Diclofenac-treated patients exhibited a marked fall in intraocular pressure (p<0.01), whereas in placebo-treated patients, this diminution was less noticeable (p<0.05). After diclofenac withdrawal, in group A intraocular pressure significantly increased (p<0.01), remaining approximately at the same level up to the end of the study. In group B, at the same checks no significant variations in intraocular pressure occurred. In primary open-angle glaucoma patients, diclofenac significantly enhances the hypotensive effect of latanoprost, without influence on timolol efficacy. Because non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs are widely employed in medical practice, supplementary ophthalmologic checks should be scheduled during the co-administration of these compounds and prostaglandin analogues.

UI  - 15945001
TI  - Safety and efficacy of bimatoprost 0.03% versus timolol maleate 0.5%/dorzolamide 2% fixed combination.
AB  - This study indicates that the intraocular pressures are lowered to a statistically similar amount with DTFC compared to bimatoprost in open-angle glaucoma and ocular hypertensive patients.

UI  - 15912390
TI  - Association between low plasma levels of ophthalmic timolol and haemodynamics in glaucoma patients.
AB  - The plasma concentration of ophthalmic timolol correlates with several haemodynamic effects. As HR decreases, SVRI increases and blood pressure is kept unchanged.

UI  - 15899098
TI  - Intraocular pressure lowering effect of brinzolamide 1.0% as adjunctive therapy to latanoprost 0.005% in patients with open angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension: an uncontrolled, open-label study.
AB  - The addition of brinzolamide to a latanoprost 0.005% regimen may further lower intraocular pressure in patients with open angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension.

UI  - 15870609
TI  - Additivity of pilocarpine to bimatoprost in ocular hypertension and early glaucoma.
AB  - Bimatoprost alone reduces IOP substantially. Pilocarpine added to bimatoprost at concentrations of 2%, 4%, or 6% was neither additive nor antagonistic to the ocular hypotensive efficacy of bimatoprost.

UI  - 15857284
TI  - The efficacy and safety of topical brinzolamide and dorzolamide when added to the combination therapy of latanoprost and a beta-blocker in patients with glaucoma.
AB  - We concluded that the efficacy of brinzolamide 1% was equivalent to dorzolamide 1%; however, the safety of brinzolamide 1% was superior to dorzolamide 1% as adjunctive therapy to the combination with latanoprost and a beta-blocker.

UI  - 15856860
TI  - The efficacy of bimatoprost 0.03% monotherapy in patients previously using topical beta-blocker monotherapy for the treatment of glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
AB  - In an open-label 12-week study, the safety and efficacy of bimatoprost 0.03% was evaluated in 55 patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension inadequately controlled by topical beta-blocker monotherapy. Patients discontinued their topical beta-blocker therapy at the baseline visit and began bimatoprost monotherapy that evening. Study visits were at 6 and 12 weeks postbaseline. Bimatoprost reduced intraocular pressure (IOP) 4.5 mm Hg (21.5%; P < .001) from baseline at week 6 and 4.2 mm Hg (19.6%; P < .001) at week 12. Patients were more likely to achieve low target pressures with bimatoprost than with topical beta-blockers. Conjunctival hyperemia was the most commonly reported adverse event. The findings from this study indicate bimatoprost monotherapy provides a substantially greater IOP reduction than topical beta-blocker therapy and allows more patients to achieve a low target pressure. Bimatoprost is an effective alternative to topical beta-blockers for the treatment of glaucoma and ocular hypertension.

UI  - 15834081
TI  - Effects of the combination of bimatoprost and latanoprost on intraocular pressure in primary open angle glaucoma: a randomised clinical trial.
AB  - The combination of bimatoprost and latanoprost in POAG increases the IOP and should not be considered as a therapeutic option.

UI  - 15829743
TI  - Efficacy and safety of latanoprost for glaucoma treatment: a three-month multicentric study in India.
AB  - In this short-term multicentric study, latanoprost effectively reduced IOP and stabilised the diurnal curve in Indian eyes. There were no clinically significant ocular or systemic adverse effects.

UI  - 15823775
TI  - Effects of travoprost 0.004% ophthalmic solution, six weeks after its laminated packaging had been removed, in primary open-angle glaucoma: a randomized, controlled, investigator-blinded study.
AB  - In this study of patients with POAG, IOPs and AEs were similar in eyes receiving 6 weeks of treatment with travoprost 0.004% ophthalmic solution, either from bottles from which the laminated packaging had been opened and that had been stored at room light and temperature for 6 weeks (ie, after the expiration date), or from bottles that had been sealed until first use by the patient. These results suggest that travoprost remains effective for at least 12 weeks after the laminated packaging has been opened.

UI  - 15814471
TI  - Dorzolamide influences the autoregulation of major retinal vessels caused by artificial intraocular pressure elevation in patients with POAG: a clinical study.
AB  - The arterial diameter dilatation during IOP elevation in dorzolamide-treated eyes could be an accelerated counter-regulation on the induced elevated IOP and could constitute an additional therapeutic effect.

UI  - 15811188
TI  - Effects of glaucoma drugs on ocular hemodynamics in normal tension glaucoma: a randomized trial comparing bimatoprost and latanoprost with dorzolamide [ISRCTN18873428].
AB  - Topically applied latanoprost and bimatoprost act in a hemodynamically neutral manner and have the capability to lower IOP even in patients with normal tension glaucoma and low initial IOP level. Dorzolamide accelerates blood flow in systole. None of the tested compounds has a negative impact on hemodynamics in the short posterior ciliary arteries.
