
UI  - 24744059
TI  - Trends over time and regional variations in the rate of laser trabeculoplasty in the Medicare population.
AB  - The rate of LTP for Medicare patients with OAG peaked in 2006 and then decreased through 2009. Nearly twice as many LTP procedures per Medicare beneficiary were performed in some regions compared with others throughout the period.

UI  - 24727262
TI  - Visual field improvement in the collaborative initial glaucoma treatment study.
AB  - In the CIGTS, substantial VF loss and improvement were comparable through 5 years of follow-up, after which VF loss became more frequent. Predictive factors for VF improvement included several indicators of better IOP control, which supports the postulate that VF improvement was real.

UI  - 24705480
TI  - Provider use of collaborative goal setting with glaucoma patients.
AB  - Eye care providers often did not use collaborative goal setting or conduct individualized assessments of patient views on glaucoma when prescribing treatment for the first time.

UI  - 24699817
TI  - Glaucomatous optic neuropathy evaluation project: factors associated with underestimation of glaucoma likelihood.
AB  - Ophthalmology trainees and comprehensive ophthalmologists underestimated glaucoma likelihood in approximately 1 in 5 disc photographs and were twice as likely to underestimate as overestimate glaucoma likelihood. Underestimating the vertical cup-disc ratio and cup shape and missing retinal nerve fiber layer defects and disc hemorrhage were the key errors that led to underestimation. When all 4 parameters were incorrectly assessed, underestimation increased to almost 1 in 2.

UI  - 24667994
TI  - Bimatoprost 0.03%/timolol 0.5% preservative-free ophthalmic solution versus bimatoprost 0.03%/timolol 0.5% ophthalmic solution (Ganfort) for glaucoma or ocular hypertension: a 12-week randomised controlled trial.
AB  - NCT01177098.

UI  - 24640653
TI  - [The effectiveness of endonasal electrophoresis of neuroprotective agents used in the rehabilitative treatment of the patients presenting with primary open angle glaucoma].
AB  - The objective of the present study was to estimate the effectiveness of the peptide drug cortexin used to treat primary open angle glaucoma. It was shown that endonasal electrophoresis of cortexin resulted in more pronounced positive changes in the dynamics of clinical, functional, perimetric, and electrophysiological characteristics compared with intramuscular administration of the same drug to the patients of the control group. This difference was apparent both immediately after the termination of the treatment and during the long-term follow-up.

UI  - 24627246
TI  - Frequency of abnormal retinal nerve fibre layer and ganglion cell layer SDOCT scans in healthy eyes and glaucoma suspects in a prospective longitudinal study.
AB  - Specificity in this sample of healthy eyes was very high for RNFLT and GCC parameters. Confirmation of suspected SDOCT abnormalities is recommended to differentiate reproducible loss from long-term variability.

UI  - 24609628
TI  - Combining multiple HRT parameters using the 'Random Forests' method improves the diagnostic accuracy of glaucoma in emmetropic and highly myopic eyes.
AB  - Evaluating multiple HRT parameters using the Random Forests classifier provided accurate diagnosis of glaucoma, both in emmetropic and highly myopic eyes.

UI  - 24595390
TI  - Variation of the axial location of Bruch's membrane opening with age, choroidal thickness, and race.
AB  - Bruch's membrane opening is more posteriorly located in older individuals. These differences are largely due to differences in choroidal thickness and suggest that BMO migrates posteriorly with age due to age-related choroidal thinning. However, additional studies in longitudinal datasets are needed to validate these findings.

UI  - 24576877
TI  - Topographic profiles of retinal nerve fiber layer defects affect the diagnostic performance of macular scans in preperimetric glaucoma.
AB  - The diagnostic ability of macular GCIPL parameters was comparable to that of peripapillary RNFL and ONH parameters in PPG. The inner directional angle of RNFL defects, but not the angular width, affects the diagnostic sensitivity of macular GCIPL parameters.

UI  - 24531027
TI  - Outcomes of glaucoma reoperations in the Tube Versus Trabeculectomy (TVT) Study.
AB  - The rate of reoperation for glaucoma was higher following trabeculectomy with mitomycin C than tube shunt surgery in the TVT Study. Similar surgical outcomes were observed after additional glaucoma surgery, irrespective of initial randomized treatment in the study.

UI  - 24531024
TI  - Dysphotopsia after temporal versus superior laser peripheral iridotomy: a prospective randomized paired eye trial.
AB  - Temporal placement of LPI is safe and was found to be less likely to result in linear dysphotopsia as compared with superior placement. Temporal iris therefore may be considered a preferred location for LPI.

UI  - 24508161
TI  - Glaucomatous optic neuropathy evaluation (GONE) project: the effect of monoscopic versus stereoscopic viewing conditions on optic nerve evaluation.
AB  - For expert observers in the evaluation of optic disc photographs for glaucoma likelihood, monoscopic optic disc photographs did not appear to represent asignificant disadvantage compared to stereoscopic photographs.

UI  - 24504128
TI  - Vision restoration training for glaucoma: a randomized clinical trial.
AB  - IMPORTANCE Visual field loss due to retinal damage is considered irreversible, and methods are needed to achieve vision restoration. Behavioral vision training, shown to improve visual fields in hemianopia and optic nerve damage, might comprise such a method. OBJECTIVE To determine if behavioral activation of areas of residual vision using daily 1-hour vision restoration training for glaucoma for 3 months improves detection accuracy compared with placebo. DESIGN AND SETTING Prospective, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial in an ambulatory care and home training setting. PARTICIPANTS Volunteer sample of patients with glaucoma (mean age, 61.7 years; age range, 39-79 years) with stable visual fields and well-controlled intraocular pressure. After randomization, 4 patients withdrew from the trial because of mild headaches (n=2) or lack of time to complete the schedule (n=2). INTERVENTIONS Computer-based vision restoration training for glaucoma (n=15) or visual discrimination placebo training in the intact visual field (n=15). MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES The primary end point was change in detection accuracy in high-resolution perimetry. Secondary end points were 30 white-on-white and 30 blue-on-yellow near-threshold perimetry, as well as reaction time, eye movements, and vision-related and health-related quality of life. RESULTS Vision restoration training for glaucoma led to significant detection accuracy gains in high-resolution perimetry (P=.007), which were not found with white-on-white or blue-on-yellow perimetry. Furthermore, the pre-post differences after vision restoration training for glaucoma were greater compared with placebo in all perimetry tests (P=.02 for high-resolution perimetry, P=.04 for white on white, and P=.04 for blue on yellow), and these results were independent of eye movements. Vision restoration training for glaucoma (but not placebo) also led to faster reaction time (P=.009). Vision-related quality of life was unaffected, but the health-related quality-of-life mental health domain increased in both groups. CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE Visual field defects caused by glaucoma can be improved by repetitively activating residual vision through training the visual field borders and areas of residual vision, thereby increasing their detection sensitivity. Our randomized clinical trial revealed evidence that visual field loss is in part reversible by behavioral, computer-based, online controlled vision training, comprising a new rehabilitation treatment option in glaucoma. Neuroplasticity of the visual cortex or higher cortical areas is the proposed mechanism of action. TRIAL REGISTRATION clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT01799707.

UI  - 24491639
TI  - Glucose-induced temporary visual recovery in primary open-angle glaucoma: a double-blind, randomized study.
AB  - Topical glucose temporarily improves psychophysical visual parameters in some individuals with POAG, suggesting that neuronal energy substrate delivery to the vitreous reservoir may recover function of "sick" retinal neurons.

UI  - 24485921
TI  - Detecting glaucoma using automated pupillography.
AB  - Although the pupillograph had a good ability to detect glaucoma in the presence of asymmetric disease, it performed poorly in those with symmetric disease.

UI  - 24481483
TI  - Effectiveness of intraocular pressure-lowering medication determined by washout.
AB  - IMPORTANCE While medication efficacy is well documented in clinical trials, less is known of medication effectiveness in real-world clinical settings. OBJECTIVE To assess the effectiveness of intraocular pressure (IOP)-lowering medications in patients with open-angle glaucoma. DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS Prospective, multicenter, interventional cohort from the prerandomization phase of a randomized clinical trial at multiple ophthalmology clinics. A total of 603 patients (603 eyes) with primary open-angle glaucoma who were using up to 3 glaucoma medications were included. INTERVENTIONS One IOP measurement was made while the patient was using his or her usual medications to lower IOP (ON IOP). Eligible participants underwent washout of all IOP-lowering drops, and the diurnal IOP was measured 2 to 4 weeks later (OFF IOP). MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES Difference between OFF IOP and ON IOP. The hypothesis was formulated after data collection. RESULTS The mean (SD) ON IOPs for participants using 0 (n=102), 1 (n=272), 2 (n=147), or 3 (n=82) medications were 24.2 (3.2), 17.5 (3.2), 17.2 (3.1), and 17.2 (3.1) mm Hg, respectively. Patients not using medication had a mean (SD) IOP decrease of 0.2 (2.8) mm Hg at the OFF visit. Patients using 1, 2, and 3 medications had mean (SD) IOP increases of 5.4 (3.0), 6.9 (3.3), and 9.0 (3.8) mm Hg, respectively, at the OFF visit. The percentages of patients with less than a 25% increase in IOP were 38%, 21%, and 13% for those using 1, 2, and 3 medications, respectively. CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE Discontinuation of 1, 2, and 3 medications was associated with a clinically significant increase in IOP, although with smaller effects for the second and third medications compared with the first medication. A substantial proportion of patients showed only small changes in IOP after medication washout, suggesting either that they were not using the medication effectively or that the medication itself, although used properly, was not lowering the IOP. TRIAL REGISTRATION clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT01085357.

UI  - 24457358
TI  - Clarifying the role of ATOH7 in glaucoma endophenotypes.
AB  - This study finds that ATOH7 is associated with optic disc size but not independently with CDR.

UI  - 24452726
TI  - Prospective, unmasked evaluation of the iStent inject system for open-angle glaucoma: synergy trial.
AB  - In this series, implantation of two trabecular micro-bypass second generation stents in subjects with OAG resulted in IOP and medication reduction and favorable safety outcomes.

UI  - 24429379
TI  - Impact of patient access to Internet health records on glaucoma medication: randomized controlled trial.
AB  - UMIN-CTR Clinical Trial Number: UMIN000006982; https://upload.umin.ac.jp/cgi-open-bin/ctr/ctr.cgi?function=brows&action=brows&type=summary&recptno=R000008238&language=E (Archived by WebCite at http://www.webcitation.org/6MRPQeEAv).

UI  - 24424248
TI  - The 5-year incidence of bleb-related infection and its risk factors after filtering surgeries with adjunctive mitomycin C: collaborative bleb-related infection incidence and treatment study 2.
AB  - The 5-year cumulative incidence of bleb-related infection was 2.20.5% in eyes treated with mitomycin C-augmented trabeculectomy or trabeculectomy combined with phacoemulsification and intraocular lens implantation in our prospective, multicenter study. Bleb leakage and younger age were the main risk factors for infections.

UI  - 24407153
TI  - Prevalence and nature of early glaucomatous defects in the central 10 of the visual field.
AB  - The 10-2 VF was abnormal in nearly as many hemifields as was the 24-2 VF, including some with normal 24-2 VF, suggesting that the 24-2 test is not optimal for detecting early damage of the macula. The pattern of the defects was in agreement with a recent model of macular damage.

UI  - 24403567
TI  - Retinal oxygen metabolism in healthy subjects and glaucoma patients.
AB  - Glaucoma patients with advanced glaucoma have higher oxygen saturation in venules and lower arteriovenous difference in oxygen saturation compared with healthy individuals. The decreased arteriovenous difference in severe glaucoma may be related to lower oxygen consumption secondary to neuropathy.

UI  - 24393349
TI  - Intraocular pressure in eyes receiving monthly ranibizumab in 2 pivotal age-related macular degeneration clinical trials.
AB  - Most ranibizumab-treated eyes did not experience sustained preinjection IOP of 21 mmHg or more (>2 consecutive visits) over 24 months. When evaluating the combined IOP end point, more ranibizumab-treated eyes had 1 or more IOP increase from baseline of 6 mmHg or more or 8 mmHg or more, with concurrent highest IOPs of 21 mmHg or more and 25 mmHg or more versus sham or PDT. Intraocular pressure should be monitored in eyes receiving ranibizumab.

UI  - 24386794
TI  - [Effect of physical and psychological stress on the course of primary open angle glaucoma].
AB  - The presence of mental stress in a glaucomatous patient increases lOP values and leads to the worsening of the disease, while insomnia represents only a potential risk factor for POAG and physical exercise might even have a beneficial effect.

UI  - 24386793
TI  - [Compliance of treatment in glaucoma patients].
AB  - In this study, the compliance level of glaucoma patients is relatively high and we observe a correlation between the compliance level and demographic location, and between the compliance level and patient's education level respectively.,

UI  - 24370813
TI  - Visante anterior segment optical coherence tomography analysis of morphologic changes after deep sclerectomy with intraoperative mitomycin-C and no implant use.
AB  - NPDS without implant placement and with intraoperative mitomycin C application seems to be an effective and well-tolerated method to reduce IOP with long-term effectiveness, casting doubt on the mandatory use of intrascleral implants in nonpenetrating glaucoma surgery.

UI  - 24370808
TI  - Clinical applicability of the International Classification of Disease and Related Health Problems (ICD-9) glaucoma staging codes to predict disease severity in patients with open-angle glaucoma.
AB  - ICD-9 GSC showed a significant relationship between worsening visual field indices and RNFL loss with increasing disease severity in patients with POAG.

UI  - 24354263
TI  - [Clinical efficacy of travoprost-timolol fixed combination on ocular hypotensive agents and ocular surface agents in Japanese glaucoma patients].
AB  - These results suggest that travoprost-timolol fixed combination reduces IOP and produces low toxicity on the ocular surface.

UI  - 24326967
TI  - Surgically induced astigmatism following glaucoma surgery in Egyptian patients.
AB  - Both trabeculectomy and deep sclerectomy induced considerable postoperative astigmatism. A longer follow-up period is recommended to study the different patterns of astigmatism in either procedure.

UI  - 24314422
TI  - Effect of anterior chamber paracentesis on initial treatment of acute angle closure.
AB  - Immediate ACP is a safe and effective for rapidly lowering IOP, and is associated with better visual acuity than medical treatment alone.

UI  - 24312500
TI  - The impact of structural and functional parameters in glaucoma patients on patient-reported visual functioning.
AB  - Self-reported visual functioning of patients with glaucoma is better predicted by visual performance data than structural parameters. However, some structural changes of the worse eye are significantly correlated with patient-reported visual functioning.

UI  - 24308226
TI  - Macular thickness after glaucoma filtration surgery.
AB  - The aim of present study was to analyze early postoperative changes in the macular area using optical coherence tomography (OCT) after uncomplicated glaucoma filtration surgery. This prospective study included 32 patients (34 eyes) with open-angle glaucoma, which underwent trabeculectomy with or without use of mitomycin C. Exclusion criteria were macular edema, uveitis, age-related macular degeneration, blurred optical media, secondary glaucoma and angle-closure glaucoma. All standard clinical examinations were made before surgery, at the 2nd day, 1 week and 1 month after surgery. Tomography of the macula was performed during every examination using Cirrus HD OCT for the analysis of central subfield thickness. Results show that thickening of the macula was slightly higher 1 week and 1 month after operation in comparison with baseline end 2nd day postoperativelly. There was no significant difference in the change of macular thickness in patients who have used topical prostaglandins compared with those who have used other topical medications. Also, there was no difference in macular changes between patients treated with or without mitomycin C. In conclusion, we found a slight subclinical increase in macular thickness after uncomplicated trabeculectomy, for which we considered that was the result in reduction of intraocular pressure after glaucoma surgery. Macular thickening after glaucoma filtering surgery could be a physiological reaction to the stress of the retina caused by a sudden reduction of intraocular pressure and it is the consequence of altered relationship between capillary pressure and interstitial fluid pressure.

UI  - 24290800
TI  - Retinal blood flow in glaucomatous eyes with single-hemifield damage.
AB  - In glaucomatous eyes with single-hemifield damage, the RBF is significantly reduced in the hemisphere associated with the abnormal hemifield. Reduced RBF is associated with thinner RNFL and GCC in the corresponding abnormal hemisphere. Reduced RBF and RNFL and GCC loss also are observed in the perimetrically normal hemisphere of glaucomatous eyes.

UI  - 24282228
TI  - Examining visual field loss in patients in glaucoma clinics during their predicted remaining lifetime.
AB  - This modeling exercise indicates that most patients in glaucoma clinics are not at high risk of progressing to statutory blindness. The likelihood of patients suffering impairment in their lifetimes is linked to VF loss at presentation, which illuminates the importance of reliably detecting significant VF defects in primary care.

UI  - 24281785
TI  - Higher optic nerve sheath diameters are associated with lower ocular blood flow velocities in glaucoma patients.
AB  - ONSD is negatively correlated with retrobulbar blood flow velocities in glaucoma patients, but not in healthy controls.

UI  - 24263699
TI  - Differences in vision between clinic and home and the effect of lighting in older adults with and without glaucoma.
AB  - Vision measured in the clinic is generally better than vision measured at home, with differences mainly owing to poor home lighting. Knowledge that vision discrepancies between patient report and clinical testing may be owing to home lighting may initiate clinician-patient discussions to optimize home lighting and improve the vision of older adults in their homes.

UI  - 24257892
TI  - Intraocular pressure reduction after initial failure of selective laser trabeculoplasty (SLT).
AB  - Two SLT treatments of the same TM area do not have a significant effect on IOP compared to two SLT treatments in two different areas.

UI  - 24212847
TI  - Early transconjunctival needling revision with 5-fluorouracil versus medical treatment in encapsulated blebs: a 12-month prospective study.
AB  - Despite similar success rates in eyes randomized to transconjunctival needling revision with 5-fluorouracil compared to eyes receiving medical treatment, there was a significantly lower mean intraocular pressure at 12 months after transconjunctival needling revision.

UI  - 24212838
TI  - Ocular surface evaluation in patients treated with a fixed combination of prostaglandin analogues with 0.5% timolol maleate topical monotherapy: a randomized clinical trial.
AB  - All of the fixed combinations induced a significant reduction in intraocular pressure, and the travoprost/timolol group showed increased expression of the inflammatory markers HLA-DR and interleukin-6. All three tested medications resulted in some degree of deterioration in the ocular surface after three months of glaucoma treatment.

UI  - 24212204
TI  - Assessment of peripapillary retinal nerve fiber layer thickness using scanning laser polarimetry (GDx VCC) in normal Indian children.
AB  - Reference values for RNFL parameters reported for Indian children are similar those reported in adults. There is a small correlation between central corneal thickness and RNFL as reflected in average TSNIT.

UI  - 24210765
TI  - Randomized, prospective, comparative trial of EX-PRESS glaucoma filtration device versus trabeculectomy (XVT study).
AB  - Mean intraocular pressures, medication use, and surgical success were similar at 2 years after treatment with the EX-PRESS device and trabeculectomy. Vision recovery between groups was also similar throughout the study, although return to baseline vision was more rapid in the EX-PRESS group. Intraocular pressure variation was lower during the early postoperative period, and postoperative complications were less common after EX-PRESS implantation compared with trabeculectomy.

UI  - 24180628
TI  - The safety and efficacy of brinzolamide 1%/timolol 0.5% fixed combination versus dorzolamide 2%/timolol 0.5% in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
AB  - Both Brinz/Tim and Dorz/Tim showed similar significant and clinically relevant IOP-lowering efficacy, whereas Brinz/Tim provided superior outcomes in terms of ocular comfort.

UI  - 24158846
TI  - Intracameral bevacizumab as an adjunct to trabeculectomy: a 1-year prospective, randomised study.
AB  - Peroperative administration of intracameral bevacizumab significantly reduces the need for additional interventions during the follow-up of patients undergoing trabeculectomy.

UI  - 24158374
TI  - Trabectome surgery for primary and secondary open angle glaucomas.
AB  - Minimal invasive glaucoma surgery with the Trabectome seems to be safe and effective. The subgroup analysis of different kinds of open angle glaucomas presented in this study may help in first-line patient selection. The lack of ocular surface alterations makes it a valuable addition to glaucoma surgery.

UI  - 24150761
TI  - The association between visual field defect severity and fear of falling in primary open-angle glaucoma.
AB  - Among patients with POAG, the severity of visual field defects is associated with fear of falling. (http://www.umin.ac.jp/ctr/index.htm number, UMIN000005574.).

UI  - 24146895
TI  - The relationship between visual field index and estimated number of retinal ganglion cells in glaucoma.
AB  - The relationship between VFI and estimated RGC counts is nonlinear and the index substantially underestimates the amount of neural loss early in the disease. Disease severity should be taken into account when interpreting rates of VFI change over time.

UI  - 24144452
TI  - Defects of the lamina cribrosa in eyes with localized retinal nerve fiber layer loss.
AB  - Focal defects of the LC were frequently visible in glaucomatous eyes with localized RNFL defects. Focal abnormalities of the LC may be associated with focal retinal nerve fiber damage.

UI  - 24126032
TI  - The United Kingdom Glaucoma Treatment Study: a multicenter, randomized, double-masked, placebo-controlled trial: baseline characteristics.
AB  - This is the first randomized, placebo-controlled trial to evaluate the efficacy of medical treatment in reducing VF deterioration in OAG. The baseline characteristics for eligible patients and eyes from this cohort are presented and compared with those of previous trials. The baseline characteristics are similar to those of the largely population-based Early Manifest Glaucoma Trial. The early stage of the glaucoma and relatively low IOP at diagnosis suggest remarkably sensitive case findings by community optometrists in the United Kingdom.

UI  - 24119452
TI  - [Diagnostic use of macular layer analysis by SD-OCT in primary open angle glaucoma].
AB  - The minimum macular GCIPL is a new index obtained with the GCA algorithm of the Cirrus HD-OCT. It appears to have an excellent ability to detect glaucoma at every stage and demonstrates performance comparable to that of the cpRNFL parameter, in combination with which it may provide important complementary information for clinical practice.

UI  - 24115838
TI  - The effect of prostaglandin analogs on the biomechanical properties and central thickness of the cornea of patients with open-angle glaucoma: a 3-year study on 108 eyes.
AB  - The changes of CCT and CH under PGA treatment in clinical practice may influence IOP measurements and patient follow-up significantly. This should be investigated further to confirm the relationship between corneal properties and treatment of open-angle glaucoma.

UI  - 24114539
TI  - Ability of different scanning protocols of spectral domain optical coherence tomography to diagnose preperimetric glaucoma.
AB  - Diagnostic abilities of ONH, RNFL, and GCC parameters of SDOCT to differentiate preperimetric glaucoma eyes from control eyes with large physiologic cupping were only moderate.

UI  - 24103057
TI  - The Northern Finland Birth Cohort Eye Study: Design and baseline characteristics.
AB  - The trial is designed to address the following questions: what is the best combination of diagnostic tests for detecting glaucoma in an unscreened population, what are the benefits and disadvantages of the screening to the individual and the society and is glaucoma screening both effective and cost-effective. The prevalence, incidence and risk factors of glaucoma and other eye diseases will be evaluated, as well as their impact on quality of life.

UI  - 24080897
TI  - A prospective, comparative, observational study on optical coherence tomography of the anterior eye segment.
AB  - The majority of clinically relevant structures could be identified with both devices in all subjects. The Spectralis OCT tended to perform better in the illustration of deep anterior segment structures like the ciliary body and sclera.

UI  - 24074220
TI  - Cirrus high-definition optical coherence tomography versus spectral optical coherence tomography/scanning laser ophthalmoscopy in the diagnosis of glaucoma.
AB  - RNFL thicknesses measures using Cirrus HD-OCT and spectral OCT/SLO were not interchangeable. The utility of RNFL thickness measurements in the diagnosis of glaucoma was similar for both the devices.

UI  - 24070811
TI  - Trabeculectomy in the 21st century: a multicenter analysis.
AB  - This survey shows that good trabeculectomy outcomes with low rates of surgical complications can be achieved, but intensive proactive postoperative care is required.

UI  - 24070367
TI  - A randomized, prospective study of bimatoprost 0.01% or travoprost/timolol in patients previously treated with latanoprost and timolol to reduce intraocular pressure.
AB  - Bimatoprost 0.01% and travoprost/timolol are both effective at reducing IOP in subjects with stable IOP control on latanoprost and timolol, but bimatoprost 0.01% is associated with less hyperemia.

UI  - 24070365
TI  - Topographic optic disc changes after successful trabeculectomy evaluated using spectral domain optical coherence tomography.
AB  - Trabeculectomy reduces IOP in eyes with advanced OAG, which induces topographic optic disc changes. Such optic disc changes became less pronounced over time and were no longer detectable 1 year after surgery.

UI  - 24061832
TI  - The prevalence of ocular surface complaints in Brazilian patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
AB  - A large proportion of Brazilian patients treated with 1 IOP-lowering therapy had some ocular surface complaints.

UI  - 24060307
TI  - [Sensimed Triggerfish() as a new system for continuous recording of 24-hour intraocular pressure in glaucoma patients].
AB  - 

UI  - 24030456
TI  - Laser scanning tomography in the EPIC-Norfolk Eye Study: principal components and associations.
AB  - Heidelberg Retina Tomograph measures in this cohort were largely explained by three principal components related to optic disc cup, RNFL, and rim. Associations with cup and rim were distinct to associations with RNFL, suggesting different underlying determinants.

UI  - 24020826
TI  - In vivo confocal microscopy of conjunctiva in preservative-free timolol 0.1% gel formulation therapy for glaucoma.
AB  - Based on our IVCM data, preservative-free beta-blocker gel induces less changes at ocular surface than preserved beta-blockers, a fact that should be considered to obtain less adverse effects and maximal adherence to treatment in a chronic condition such as glaucoma.

UI  - 24008808
TI  - Evaluation of brimonidine-timolol fixed combination in patients of primary open-angle glaucoma.
AB  - The aim of present study was to compare the efficacy and safety of fixed combination of brimonidine and timolol with individual components used as monotherapy in patients of primary open angle glaucoma. Patients were randomly assigned to receive brimonidine or timolol or brimonidine-timolol fixed combination, with 30 patients in each group. The mean reduction in intraocular pressure in brimonidine, timolol, and brimonidine-timolol group were 4.29  1.97 mm Hg, 4.34  1.21 mm Hg, and 5.54  1.87 mm Hg respectively at 2 weeks and 4.86  1.16 mm Hg, 5.42  1.50 mm Hg, and 7.36  2.58 mm Hg respectively at 6 weeks. When values of mean reduction in intraocular pressure were compared between brimonidine-timolol fixed combination with brimonidine and timolol, it was found to be statistically significant ( P < 0.05) at 2 weeks and highly significant (0.001) at 6 weeks. The overall frequency of adverse effects was similar in all three groups.

UI  - 24006952
TI  - Repeatability of intraocular pressure measurements with Icare PRO rebound, Tono-Pen AVIA, and Goldmann tonometers in sitting and reclining positions.
AB  - The study was registered to the Clinical Trials Register of the US National Institute of Health, NCT01325324.

UI  - 24006861
TI  - Evaluation of eye drop administration technique in patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
AB  - NCT01253902.

UI  - 23971041
TI  - Influence of BAK-preserved prostaglandin analog treatment on the ocular surface health in patients with newly diagnosed primary open-angle glaucoma.
AB  - This study showed that BAK-preserved travoprost 0.004% is an effective medication in newly diagnosed POAG patients, but its long-term use may negatively influence ocular surface health by disrupting the tear film stability. Further studies are needed to better understand the clinical effects of different preservative types and concentrations on the ocular surface.

UI  - 23970024
TI  - Eye drop instillation technique in patients with glaucoma.
AB  - Education relating to eye drop instillation technique is significantly associated with a patient's ability to instil drops correctly. The assessment of a patient's ability to instil eye drops correctly should be a routine part of the glaucoma examination.

UI  - 23962652
TI  - Glaucoma diagnostic ability of ganglion cell-inner plexiform layer thickness differs according to the location of visual field loss.
AB  - The GCIPL parameters were more valuable than the cpRNFL parameters for detecting glaucoma in eyes with parafoveal VF loss, and the cpRNFL parameters were better than the GCIPL parameters for detecting glaucoma in eyes with peripheral VF loss. Clinicians should know that the diagnostic capability of macular GCIPL parameters depends largely on the location of the VF loss.

UI  - 23951826
TI  - Performance of optical coherence tomography for distinguishing between normal eyes, glaucoma suspect and glaucomatous eyes.
AB  - Circumpapillary parameters have better diagnostic performance than macular parameters especially the inferior quadrant thickness that has the best discriminating power

UI  - 23939294
TI  - Orbscan topography in primary open-angle glaucoma.
AB  - Primary open-angle glaucoma eyes have a higher elevation of the posterior corneal surface than that in central corneal thickness-matched nonglaucomatous eyes.

UI  - 23932217
TI  - Selective laser trabeculoplasty following failed combined phacoemulsification cataract extraction and ab interno trabeculectomy.
AB  - In eyes in which the IOP was no longer controlled following phaco-trabectome, SLT had a limited duration of significant IOP-lowering effect. Other alternatives, such as incisional filtration surgery, should be considered following failed phaco-trabectome.

UI  - 23929078
TI  - Sensitivity and specificity of machine learning classifiers for glaucoma diagnosis using Spectral Domain OCT and standard automated perimetry.
AB  - Machine learning classifiers trained on OCT and SAP data can successfully discriminate between healthy and glaucomatous eyes. The combination of OCT and SAP measurements improved the diagnostic accuracy compared with OCT data alone.

UI  - 23855234
TI  - [Influence on ocular surface and intraocular pressure of switching from preservative-containing to preservative-free carteolol hydrochloride ophthalmic solution].
AB  - 

UI  - 23844550
TI  - Prostaglandin associated periorbitopathy in patients using bimatoprost, latanoprost and travoprost.
AB  - Prostaglandin-associated periorbitopathy is as common as other adverse effects when careful examinations are performed and is more frequent and more severe in bimatoprost users. The loss of the periorbital fat pad is the first sign to occur during the evolution of prostaglandin-associated periorbitopathy, especially in older patients.

UI  - 23837834
TI  - Repeatability and accuracy of applanation resonance tonometry in healthy subjects and patients with glaucoma.
AB  - The ART intra-examiner repeatability was excellent, although significantly lower than that of GAT, and decreased at higher IOP levels. ART significantly overestimated GAT IOP measurements, especially at higher IOP range. Both GAT and ART appeared similarly influenced by CCT value.

UI  - 23831221
TI  - Phase 2 randomized clinical study of a Rho kinase inhibitor, K-115, in primary open-angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension.
AB  - On the basis of this dose-response study, K-115 0.4% has been selected to be the optimal dose and has the potential to be a promising new agent for glaucoma to control 24-hour IOP by twice-daily dosing.

UI  - 23821204
TI  - Associations with retinal nerve fiber layer measures in the EPIC-Norfolk Eye Study.
AB  - This analysis of associations with RNFL thickness in a largely healthy population may provide insight into the determinants of glaucoma, suggesting higher risk in those who are older, in men, and in men with a higher BMI.

UI  - 23819592
TI  - Changes in visual acuity and intra-ocular pressure following bleb-related infection: the Japan Glaucoma Society Survey of Bleb-related Infection Report 2.
AB  - Stage III bleb-related infection causes significant visual loss and IOP elevation within 12 months after development. Therefore, preventative measures should be taken, especially in cases that are pseudophakic or aphakic.

UI  - 23818768
TI  - Patients undergoing long-term treatment with antihypertensive eye drops responded positively with respect to their ocular surface disorder to oral supplementation with antioxidants and essential fatty acids.
AB  - Inflammation biomarkers were differentially expressed in glaucomatous tears, but the differences changed upon antioxidant/essential polyunsaturated fatty acid supplementation. Chronic instillation of antihypertensive eye drops must be considered for integrating protocols to glaucoma standards of care.

UI  - 23818227
TI  - The glaucoma detection capability of spectral-domain OCT and GDx-VCC deviation maps in early glaucoma patients with localized visual field defects.
AB  - The RNFL thicknesses assessed by either Cirrus OCT or GDx-VCC were comparable in terms of early glaucoma diagnostic capability. However, when areas containing RNFL defects were analyzed via deviation mapping, Cirrus OCT was better than GDx-VCC.

UI  - 23809273
TI  - Accuracy of matching optic discs with visual fields: the European Structure and Function Assessment Trial (ESAFAT).
AB  - European ophthalmologists correctly matched stereoscopic optic disc photographs to their corresponding visual field in only approximately 59% of cases. In most mismatches, the clinicians overestimated the visual field damage.

UI  - 23808186
TI  - [Efficacy of vitamin mineral complex "Focus forte" in combined treatment of primary open-angle glaucoma and age-related macular degeneration].
AB  - The efficacy of Focus forte is proved in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) and age-related macular degeneration (AMD) in terms of improvement of functional retinal activity, oxygenation, metabolism normalization as well as morphometric retinal and optic nerve indices. Principles of evidence based pharmacotherapy in this study allow advising Focus forte in the treatment of patients with POAG and AMD.

UI  - 23808185
TI  - [Antioxidant agents in neuroprotection treatment of glaucoma].
AB  - Purpose was to study efficiency and safety of mexidol in combined therapy in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG). 94 patients (185 eyes) at the age of 18-75 years old with POAG I-III stages were divided into 3 groups: 50 patients received combined therapy of mexidol 100 mg and picamilon 150 mg, 22 patients received combined therapy of mexidol 300 mg and picamilon 150 mg, 22 patients received only picamilon 150 mg. All medicine was administered qd during 14 or 21 days. Examination included standard ophthalmologic methods, perimetry, electroretinography, retinal and optic nerve heard arterial blood flow. Improvement of visual acuity, perimetric, electrofisiological indicies and increased blood flow velocity of central retinal artery were registrated. Combined mexidol therapy allows improving results in treatment of patients with POAG.

UI  - 23796764
TI  - The Ahmed versus Baerveldt study: three-year treatment outcomes.
AB  - Both devices were effective in reducing IOP and glaucoma medications. The Baerveldt group had a lower failure rate and required fewer medications than the Ahmed group after 3 years, but it experienced more hypotony-related vision-threatening complications.

UI  - 23746612
TI  - Estimated retinal ganglion cell counts in glaucomatous eyes with localized retinal nerve fiber layer defects.
AB  - Although visible localized RNFL defects often are considered an early sign of glaucoma, this study indicates that they are likely to be associated with large neuronal losses.

UI  - 23743437
TI  - Bimatoprost 0.03% preservative-free ophthalmic solution versus bimatoprost 0.03% ophthalmic solution (Lumigan) for glaucoma or ocular hypertension: a 12-week, randomised, double-masked trial.
AB  - Bimatoprost PF is non-inferior and equivalent to bimatoprost in its ability to reduce IOP-lowering with a safety profile similar to bimatoprost.

UI  - 23713521
TI  - Effect of tafluprost 0.0015% on central corneal thickness in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma.
AB  - Long-term use of tafluprost may decrease the CCT in patients with POAG. Consequently, clinicians must be aware of prolongated CCT variations that may arise throughout the follow-up period for proper IOP targeting and management.

UI  - 23710686
TI  - The Heidelberg retina tomograph ancillary study to the European glaucoma prevention study: study design and baseline factors.
AB  - The EGPS is the first multicentre, placebo-controlled randomized clinical trial to use HRT for monitoring optic disc changes in participants with ocular hypertension. We found strong associations between stereophotographic vertical CDR estimates, HRT disc area, PSD and several HRT parameters. We found, furthermore, that the parameters reference height and GPS were significantly related to central corneal thickness.

UI  - 23708422
TI  - Dynamic contour tonometer and Goldmann applanation tonometer performance in a developing world setting: intraocular pressure measurement acquisition and precision.
AB  - The DCT shows good measurement precision with comparable repeatability and superior reproducibility compared with the GAT. The DCT score is useful in its objectivity and improving repeatability. However, patient and ocular surface factors may impede DCT measurements, impacting upon its general usability in a high volume, walk-in community clinic.

UI  - 23702610
TI  - Tenon advancement and duplication technique to prevent postoperative Ahmed valve tube exposure in patients with refractory glaucoma.
AB  - This novel surgical technique combining a short scleral tunnel with Tenon advancement and duplication was found to be effective and safe to prevent conjunctival tube exposure after AGV implantation surgery in patients with refractory glaucoma.

UI  - 23686322
TI  - 24-hour efficacy of the bimatoprost-timolol fixed combination versus latanoprost as first choice therapy in subjects with high-pressure exfoliation syndrome and glaucoma.
AB  - As first choice therapy in high-pressure, at-risk exfoliation patients, BTFC controlled mean 24-h IOP significantly better than latanoprost monotherapy.

UI  - 23685999
TI  - Longitudinal changes in anterior chamber depth and axial length in Asian subjects after trabeculectomy surgery.
AB  - Trabeculectomy resulted in a decrease in both ACD and AXL, and these changes were persistent over a period of 5 years.

UI  - 23681371
TI  - Twenty-four hour efficacy with preservative free tafluprost compared with latanoprost in patients with primary open angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
AB  - NCT01162603.

UI  - 23661528
TI  - Treatment of glaucomatous patients by means of food supplement to reduce the ocular discomfort: a double blind randomized trial.
AB  - The association of forskolin, rutin and vitamins B1 and B2 appears to be protective for the ocular surface, contributing to restore a normal equilibrium of the tear film in those subjects in which toxic agents such as BAK had determined alterations of its homeostasis.

UI  - 23661374
TI  - Association between baseline angle width and induced angle opening following prophylactic laser peripheral iridotomy.
AB  - Our results showed significant opening of the anterior chamber angle width after LPI and demonstrated an inverse association between baseline and LPI-induced opening of the anterior chamber angle width, such that eyes with a more crowded anterior chamber angle undergoing LPI had a greater magnitude of increase in anterior chamber angle width after the procedure.

UI  - 23645180
TI  - Long-term comparison of full-bed deep anterior lamellar keratoplasty and penetrating keratoplasty in treating keratoconus.
AB  - Both full-bed DALK and PK can offer long-term satisfactory visual outcomes for keratoconus. Graft rejection, secondary glaucoma, complicated cataracts, and constant endothelial cell loss were observed in eyes only after PK.

UI  - 23640612
TI  - Fixed-combination brinzolamide 1%/brimonidine 0.2% vs monotherapy with brinzolamide or brimonidine in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension: results of a pooled analysis of two phase 3 studies.
AB  - This analysis strengthens the conclusions drawn from the two individual phase 3 studies showing that, in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension, BBFC had significantly superior IOP-lowering activity compared with either brinzolamide or brimonidine alone and a safety profile consistent with that of its individual components.

UI  - 23633662
TI  - Comparison of iris insertion classification among american caucasian and ethnic Chinese using ultrasound biomicroscopy.
AB  - Chinese have significantly higher proportions of nonbasal iris insertion in the nasal and temporal quadrants when compared with Caucasians, even after adjusting for ASOCT-measured anterior segment biometry and iris characteristics. Longitudinal studies in patients who have PAC/PACG are needed to fully elucidate the relationship between iris insertion and angle closure development.

UI  - 23633657
TI  - Longitudinal analysis of progression in glaucoma using spectral-domain optical coherence tomography.
AB  - LONGITUDINAL MEASUREMENTS OF RNFL THICKNESS USING SD-OCT SHOW A MORE PRONOUNCED REDUCTION OF RNFL THICKNESS IN PATIENTS WITH PROGRESSION COMPARED WITH PATIENTS WITHOUT PROGRESSION IN GLAUCOMATOUS OPTIC DISC CHANGES. (www.clinicaltrials.gov number, NTC00494923.).

UI  - 23629778
TI  - [Transscleral cyclophotocoagulation as primary surgical intervention in glaucoma].
AB  - For selected glaucoma patients, cyclophotocoagulation could be an option as primary surgical intervention to lower intraocular pressure.

UI  - 23624617
TI  - Direct cost and predictive factors for treatment in patients with ocular hypertension or early, moderate and advanced primary open-angle glaucoma: the CoGIS study in Germany.
AB  - Direct costs of treatment are higher in glaucoma compared to OHT and further increase in more severe glaucoma states. Additional treatment changes are major contributing factors to the increased treatment costs of glaucoma. If intraocular pressure can be controlled over the long term, progression to moderate and advanced states avoided, and patients remain on initial treatments, treatment costs could decline due to reduced and less expensive healthcare resource utilisation.

UI  - 23621628
TI  - The effect of bevacizumab on the outcome of trabeculectomy with 5-Fluorouracil.
AB  - Bevacizumab may not exert significant additive effects in trabeculectomy when administered in conjunction with 5-FU.

UI  - 23615390
TI  - Citicoline oral solution in glaucoma: is there a role in slowing disease progression?
AB  - This study seems to indicate that supplementation with citicoline might significantly slow down glaucomatous rates of progression.

UI  - 23614930
TI  - Health- and vision-related quality of life in patients with ocular hypertension or primary open-angle glaucoma.
AB  - The key difference for QoL impairment in glaucoma lies between OHT/early POAG versus moderate/severe POAG, hence every possible effort needs to be made to prevent disease progression over this threshold.

UI  - 23613506
TI  - Are practical recommendations practiced? A national multi-centre cross-sectional study on frequency of visual field testing in glaucoma.
AB  - Most newly-diagnosed COAG patients receive less than three VFs in the first 2 years following diagnosis and an average of 0.7 VF per year over the duration of follow-up.

UI  - 23601909
TI  - Conjunctival goblet cells density and preservative-free tafluprost therapy for glaucoma: an in vivo confocal microscopy and impression cytology study.
AB  - Treatment with PF tafluprost was associated with an increase in conjunctival GCD in glaucomatous eyes nave for therapy. Further studies are mandatory to verify this finding because its validation may have important consequences in the medical management of glaucoma.

UI  - 23601801
TI  - Risk of elevated intraocular pressure and glaucoma in patients with uveitis: results of the multicenter uveitis steroid treatment trial.
AB  - Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.

UI  - 23599328
TI  - Reduction in blood glutathione levels occurs similarly in patients with primary-open angle or normal tension glaucoma.
AB  - This study demonstrates, for the first time, that both POAG and NTG patients exhibit lower GSH and t-GSH levels than age-matched controls, indicating a similar general compromise of the antioxidant defense systems may exist in both conditions.

UI  - 23594170
TI  - Point-wise relationships between visual field sensitivity and macular thickness determined by spectral-domain optical coherence tomography.
AB  - The VFS showed a significant reciprocal relationship with corresponding macular thickness at each test point. However, the level of the relationship varied among different macular sectors, showing the strongest relationship in the arcuate region.

UI  - 23584651
TI  - Comparison of the efficacy and safety of bimatoprost (0.03 %) and travoprost (0.004 %) in patients with primary open angle glaucoma.
AB  - Both drugs lowered IOP effectively but bimatoprost showed a greater reduction in the mean IOP than did travoprost at 12 weeks and both are safe for ocular use.

UI  - 23579344
TI  - Three-month randomized trial of fixed-combination brinzolamide, 1%, and brimonidine, 0.2%.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT01297517.

UI  - 23571259
TI  - Comparison of outcomes of trabeculectomy with mitomycin C vs. ologen implant in primary glaucoma.
AB  - In this pilot study, the success of trabeculectomy and complications were similar in both Ologen and MMC groups at the end of 6 months.

UI  - 23564224
TI  - Comparative cross-sectional analysis of the effects of topical antiglaucoma drugs on the ocular surface.
AB  - Long-term treatment with BAK-containing antiglaucoma medication appears to be the main contributor to corneal toxicity and to do so in a dose-dependent manner. Formulations containing beta-blockers also appear to contribute to corneal toxicity.

UI  - 23561599
TI  - Socioeconomic status as a risk factor for late presentation of glaucoma in Canada.
AB  - To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study in Canada to provide evidence that socioeconomic deprivation is associated with greater severity of glaucoma at presentation, specifically for those 65 years old. Consideration should be given to targeting poor neighborhood areas for glaucoma education, screening, or both.

UI  - 23557744
TI  - The relationship between cup-to-disc ratio and estimated number of retinal ganglion cells.
AB  - The relationship between estimated RGC counts and CDR suggests that assessment of change in CDR is an insensitive method for evaluation of progressive neural losses in glaucoma. Even relatively small changes in CDR may be associated with large losses of RGCs, especially in eyes with large CDRs. (ClinicalTrials.gov numbers, NCT00221923, NCT00221897.).

UI  - 23550916
TI  - Comparison of 24-hour intraocular pressure reduction obtained with brinzolamide/timolol or brimonidine/timolol fixed-combination adjunctive to travoprost therapy.
AB  - This study demonstrated that both FCs provide statistically and clinically significant incremental 24-h IOP lowering to travoprost monotherapy. The brinzolamide/timolol FC however achieves a better mean 24-h IOP control owing to the greater efficacy in late afternoon and during the night.

UI  - 23546027
TI  - Sleeping posture and intraocular pressure.
AB  - The lateral decubitus position adopted during sleep is associated with changes in IOP in healthy volunteers.

UI  - 23538512
TI  - Prevalence of glaucoma in an urban West African population: the Tema Eye Survey.
AB  - The prevalence of glaucoma is higher in this urban West African population than in previous studies of people of East or South African and of non-African descent. Strategies to identify affected persons and effectively manage the burden of glaucoma are needed in West Africa.

UI  - 23538479
TI  - Anterior chamber bleeding after laser peripheral iridotomy.
AB  - No indication was noted for discontinuing these medications before a high-powered pulsed laser peripheral iridotomy.

UI  - 23530946
TI  - Effects of dorzolamide-timolol and brimonidine-timolol on retinal vascular autoregulation and ocular perfusion pressure in primary open angle glaucoma.
AB  - D/T significantly improved RVA in POAG patients exhibiting RVD while on timolol 0.5% alone. D/T also increased sOPP compared to B/T. There was no significant difference (P=0.37) between D/T and B/T in improving RVA.

UI  - 23524858
TI  - Impact of age, diagnosis, and history of glaucoma surgery on outcomes in pediatric patients treated with latanoprost.
AB  - All age and diagnosis subgroups showed clinically relevant (>20%) mean IOP reduction at week 12 with latanoprost monotherapy.

UI  - 23520528
TI  - Identifying areas of the visual field important for quality of life in patients with glaucoma.
AB  - The VRQoL prediction model with the Random Forest method enables clinicians to better understand patients' VRQoL based on standard clinical measurements of VA and VF.

UI  - 23513061
TI  - Sensitivity and specificity of short-duration transient visual evoked potentials (SD-tVEP) in discriminating normal from glaucomatous eyes.
AB  - Short-duration transient VEP objectively identified decreased visual function and discriminated between healthy and glaucomatous eyes, and also showed good differentiation between healthy eyes and those with early visual field loss. VEP may be useful for early diagnosis of glaucoma.

UI  - 23506920
TI  - Early postoperative safety and surgical outcomes after implantation of a suprachoroidal micro-stent for the treatment of open-angle glaucoma concomitant with cataract surgery.
AB  - Initial clinical experience with the new micro-stent showed a low rate of surgical complications with concomitant decreases in IOP and/or glaucoma medications.

UI  - 23497845
TI  - The rate of structural change: the confocal scanning laser ophthalmoscopy ancillary study to the ocular hypertension treatment study.
AB  - The rate of rim area loss is approximately 5 times faster in eyes in which POAG developed compared with eyes in which it did not. These results suggest that measuring the rate of structural change can provide important information for the clinical management of ocular hypertensive patients. Additional follow-up is needed to determine whether the statisticallysignificant change in the eyes in which POAG did notdevelop represents normal aging or glaucomatous change not detected by conventional methods.

UI  - 23493298
TI  - Reproducibility of thickness measurements of macular inner retinal layers using SD-OCT with or without correction of ocular rotation.
AB  - The reproducibility of the macular (GCL+IPL) and GCC thickness measurements was better than that of mRFNLT and cpRNFLT in normal and glaucoma eyes and minimally affected by correction of ocular rotation.

UI  - 23482466
TI  - An ultra-high-speed Scheimpflug camera for evaluation of corneal deformation response and its impact on IOP measurement.
AB  - CDA was a reliable indicator to quantify corneal deformation response. CDA, rather than CCT, was the key source of measurement error of GAT.

UI  - 23475405
TI  - Ocular surface tolerability of prostaglandin analogs and prostamides in patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
AB  - Despite preservative differences, there were no significant differences in objective clinical measures of ocular surface tolerability after 3 months of treatment with bimatoprost (with 0.02% BAK), travoprost (with sofZia), and latanoprost (with 0.02% BAK).

UI  - 23470044
TI  - Assessment of the anterior chamber angle in patients with nanophthalmos: an anterior segment optical coherence tomography study.
AB  - Determination of angle parameters using AS-OCT is a rapid noncontact method that is useful in patients with nanophthalmos. The findings demonstrated that nanophthalmic eyes had lower ACA parameters including ACA, AOD500, AOD750, TISA500 and TISA750 at the nasal and temporal angles.

UI  - 23466269
TI  - The Singapore 5-fluorouracil trial: intraocular pressure outcomes at 8 years.
AB  - The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.

UI  - 23461283
TI  - Effect of prophylactic intraocular pressure-lowering medication on pain during cataract surgery.
AB  - Prophylactic application of the IOP-lowering medication may alter the pain sensation during phacoemulsification cataract surgery.

UI  - 23450425
TI  - Association between rates of binocular visual field loss and vision-related quality of life in patients with glaucoma.
AB  - Patients with faster rates of BVF change were at higher risk of reporting abnormal VRQOL. Assessment of rates of BVF change may provide useful information in determining risk of functional impairment in glaucoma.

UI  - 23434331
TI  - Safety and efficacy of unpreserved timolol 0.1% gel in patients controlled by preserved latanoprost with signs of ocular intolerance.
AB  - Unpreserved timolol 0.1% gel maintained the efficacy of preserved latanoprost and reduced signs and symptoms of intolerance in almost all glaucomatous/OHT patients on preserved latanoprost.

UI  - 23425430
TI  - Phase 3 randomized 3-month trial with an ongoing 3-month safety extension of fixed-combination brinzolamide 1%/brimonidine 0.2%.
AB  - This study demonstrated that BBFC has significantly superior IOP-lowering activity compared with either brinzolamide 1% or brimonidine 0.2% in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension while providing a safety profile which is consistent with that of the individual components.

UI  - 23387925
TI  - A descriptive study of ocular characteristics in Marfan syndrome.
AB  - Despite increased AL, high myopia is not as common in MFS as expected because of a flat cornea. Biometry should be considered in suspected cases of MFS when EL is not present.

UI  - 23385794
TI  - Intraocular pressure lowering is associated with an increase in the photopic negative response (PhNR) amplitude in glaucoma and ocular hypertensive eyes.
AB  - The full-field PhNR amplitude provides a potentially reversible measure of inner retinal function that improves after IOP lowering. Further study now is required to assess its use as a measure of optic nerve health in glaucoma patients.

UI  - 23241939
TI  - Forskolin and rutin prevent intraocular pressure spikes after Nd:YAG laser iridotomy.
AB  - Forskolin and rutin can blunt the increase of IOP that occurs after Nd-YAG laser iridotomy. This can avoid serious risk to the optic nerve of the patients under laser treatment for iridotomy.

UI  - 23356397
TI  - Optic nerve head morphology in young patients after antiglaucomatous filtering surgery.
AB  - After marked reduction of high IOP, some eyes of young adult patients with glaucoma can show a horizontal shrinkage of the optic nerve head, in addition to a partial restoration of the neuroretinal rim and a flattening of the optic cup. In addition, beta zone of parapapillary atrophy can decrease or increase, complementarily to changes in the horizontal disc diameter. These findings may be of interest for the biomechanics of the optic nerve head and the precision of imaging techniques.

UI  - 23341184
TI  - Comparing the Tonojet disposable tonometer with the traditional Goldmann tonometer in glaucomatous and non-glaucomatous eyes.
AB  - Applanation tonometry is widely performed as the most accurate method of measuring intraocular pressure in the clinical setting. Disposable tonometer heads reduce the risk of transmitting infection during applanation and eliminate tonometer head cleaning, which is time-consuming. We performed a study to investigate whether the Tonojet disposable tonometer (Luneau, France) gave comparable intraocular pressure measurements to the standard Goldmann tonometer produced by Haag Streit (Switzerland). The study was performed in a busy general secondary referral ophthalmology clinic in Beaumont Hospital over a 15-day period. We measured intraocular pressure with the Goldmann and Tonojet tonometers in 293 eyes. Patients were randomised as to which tonometer was used first. A diagnosis of glaucoma or ocular hypertension was noted. Central corneal thickness (CCT) was measured. The measurements taken with the Tonojet were on average 2.2mmHg lower than corresponding measurements taken with the Goldmann applanation tonometer head. The bias was present over the entire range of pressures. The 95% limits of agreement between the two tonometers ranged from -5.9 to +1.4mmHg. In the cohort of eyes with ocular hypertension/glaucoma the difference was significantly higher (2.8 vs. 2.1mmHg). The bias was independent of CCT. We found that the Tonojet disposable tonometer tends to underestimate intraocular pressure compared with the Goldmann. The bias is non-systematic, present over the entire range of pressures and independent of corneal thickness. We conclude that the Tonojet is not sufficiently accurate to constitute a suitable alternative to the Goldmann.

UI  - 23323611
TI  - Oximetry in glaucoma: correlation of metabolic change with structural and functional damage.
AB  - Severe glaucomatous damage is associated with increased oxygen saturation in retinal venules and decreased AV difference in oxygen saturation. These data suggest that in eyes with severe glaucomatous damage, reduced retinal oxygen consumption is consistent with tissue loss.

UI  - 23319063
TI  - [Scheimpflug photography of acute angle closure].
AB  - Anterior chamber volume increases due to IO but not anterior chamber depth, central corneal thickness and anterior chamber angle in eyes with acute angle closure.

UI  - 23317171
TI  - Evaluation of peripapillary retinal nerve fiber layer thickness in patients with vitamin B12 deficiency using spectral domain optical coherence tomography.
AB  - We have shown that, as in other non-glaucomatous optic neuropathies, temporal quadrant RNFL thickness was thinner in patients with vitamin B12 deficiency and it was correlated with plasma vitamin B12 levels. Further studies are warranted to clarify the clinical relevance of these findings and the effects of vitamin B12 replacement therapy.

UI  - 23307968
TI  - Photopic negative response versus pattern electroretinogram in early glaucoma.
AB  - Both PhNR and PERG performed similarly to detect glaucoma; for both, ratios performed better than amplitudes. The PhNR has the advantage of not requiring clear optics and refractive correction; the PERG has the advantage of being recorded with natural pupils.

UI  - 23307227
TI  - Accuracy of international classification of diseases, ninth revision, clinical modification billing codes for common ophthalmic conditions.
AB  - 

UI  - 23306828
TI  - Agreement between frequency-doubling technology perimetry and Heidelberg retinal tomography 3.
AB  - FDT perimetry and HRT3 had no significant diagnostic agreement. Thus, the results from both examinations should be considered when determining diagnosis of glaucoma.

UI  - 23306726
TI  - Can early postoperative intraocular pressure predict success following mitomycin-C augmented trabeculectomy in primary angle-closure glaucoma.
AB  - The IOP at 18 months following primary antifibrotic-augmented trabeculectomy in PACG patients is associated with and predicted by the postoperative IOPs at 1 month. Control of early IOP to 13.5 or less may provide better outcomes.

UI  - 23305434
TI  - Prospective evaluation of optic nerve head by confocal scanning laser ophthalmoscopy after intraocular pressure control in adult glaucoma.
AB  - Intermittent IOP fluctuations of 4 mm Hg over the mean IOP was associated with progression in POAG and CPACG eyes. PACG eyes appeared to progress faster and to a greater extent, and were more resistant to changes in ONH tomography following standard therapy, requiring a larger percentage drop in IOP to manifest improvement in optic nerve head parameters, as compared to POAG eyes.

UI  - 23289904
TI  - Central corneal thickness and glaucoma treatment: an Italian multicenter cross-sectional study.
AB  - No significant difference in CCT was found between patients treated with PGA and TCAI, suggesting that these topical medications did not statistically and clinically change the CCT.

UI  - 23285843
TI  - [Phase III clinical trial of brimonidine in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension--comparison of the effects of brimonidine monotherapy versus timolol monotherapy, or combination brimonidine/prostaglandins therapy versus combination placebo/prostaglandins therapy].
AB  - Topical brimonidine showed an additive IOP-lowering effect to topical PG analogues, although its IOP-lowering effect was inferior to topical timolol as monotherapy.

UI  - 24844040
TI  - [TNF-alfa (-857C/T) polymorphism in open angle glaucoma in Romania -- results of a pilot study].
AB  - TNF-alfa promoter polymorphism -857 C/T doesn't seem to influence the susceptibility to POAG and the results should be confirmed on larger cohorts.

UI  - 23263152
TI  - Surgical outcome of mitomycin C-soaked collagen matrix implant in trabeculectomy.
AB  - Trabeculectomy with mitomycin C-soaked ologen do not seem to exert any synergistic effect with antimetabolites in terms of a reduction in IOP. However, the mitomycin C-soaked collagen matrix implant used in trabeculectomy resulted in comparatively stable IOP and did not aggravate wound healing or scar formation. Encapsulated blebs were generated at a more rapid pace in larger amounts compared with conventional trabeculectomy. The management of encapsulated blebs may be crucial to improving the success rate of surgery.

UI  - 23259919
TI  - Black currant anthocyanins normalized abnormal levels of serum concentrations of endothelin-1 in patients with glaucoma.
AB  - Among the possible beneficial effects of BCACs toward visual field progression in patients with OAG, our present results suggest that BCACs caused normalization of serum ET-1 levels, and this may modulate ET-1-dependent regulation of the ocular blood hemodynamics.

UI  - 23246272
TI  - Risk of endophthalmitis and other long-term complications of trabeculectomy in the Collaborative Initial Glaucoma Treatment Study (CIGTS).
AB  - The potential efficacy of trabeculectomy must be weighed against the long-term risk of complications, especially endophthalmitis, when selecting treatments for patients with open-angle glaucoma. We report a low 5-year risk of endophthalmitis (1.1%) and other bleb-related complications in the trabeculectomy cohort of the Collaborative Initial Glaucoma Treatment Study.

UI  - 23246120
TI  - Retinal ganglion cell count estimates associated with early development of visual field defects in glaucoma.
AB  - Glaucomatous eyes with the earliest detectable visual field loss on automated perimetry may already show substantial loss of RGCs. Empirical estimates of RGC counts combining structural and functional tests agreed closely with previous histologic reports on the number of RGCs associated with early visual fields defects on SAP.

UI  - 23241328
TI  - Effects of SofZia-preserved travoprost and benzalkonium chloride-preserved latanoprost on the ocular surface -- a multicentre randomized single-masked study.
AB  - Switching to SofZia-preserved travoprost after BAK-preserved latanoprost resulted in a lower incidence of keratoconjunctival epitheliopathy, especially in the cornea, with no clinically relevant changes in hyperaemia and IOP.

UI  - 23229696
TI  - Continuous 24-hour monitoring of intraocular pressure patterns with a contact lens sensor: safety, tolerability, and reproducibility in patients with glaucoma.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT01319617

UI  - 23221076
TI  - Measuring retinal nerve fiber layer birefringence, retardation, and thickness using wide-field, high-speed polarization sensitive spectral domain OCT.
AB  - The new PS-OCT system showed high image quality and reproducibility, and, therefore, might be a valuable tool for glaucoma diagnosis.

UI  - 23214487
TI  - [Efficacy and tolerability of preservative-free tafluprost 0.0015 % in the treatment of glaucoma and ocular hypertension].
AB  - Taflotan significantly decreased the intraocular pressure. It was well tolerated even in patients with previous intolerability to another antiglaucomatous therapy, including prostaglandins. The patients and ophthalmologists satisfaction with Taflotan was high.

UI  - 23203707
TI  - Efficacy and safety of preservative-free latanoprost eyedrops, compared with BAK-preserved latanoprost in patients with ocular hypertension or glaucoma.
AB  - Preservative-free latanoprost has the same efficacy as BPL, with improved local tolerance.

UI  - 23181800
TI  - The impact of central corneal thickness on intraocular pressure among Ethiopian glaucoma patients: a cross-sectional study.
AB  - The mean CCT of Ethiopian glaucoma patients is thin in comparison to other ethnic groups and patients with OHT have thicker corneas than POAG patients. Hence determination of CCT for each patient is necessary in the up-to-date glaucoma management.

UI  - 23172572
TI  - Clinical use of a new position-independent rebound tonometer.
AB  - Measurements obtained with the RTPRO, either in the upright or in the supine position, show good correlation and agreement with those provided by applanation and dynamic contour tonometry. The study was registered with the DRKS (German Clinical Trials Register; http://www.germanctr.de; DRKS00000581).

UI  - 23171166
TI  - Protocol for a randomised controlled trial to estimate the effects and costs of a patient centred educational intervention in glaucoma management.
AB  - Current Controlled Trials: ISRCTN89683704.

UI  - 23161047
TI  - The effect of latanoprost and influence of changes in body position on patients with glaucoma and ocular hypertension.
AB  - Patients with OH and POAG have a larger increase in their IOPSP than do normals. The addition of topical LP partially decreased but did not totally eliminate these pressure increases.

UI  - 23121858
TI  - Physical co-morbidity among treatment resistant vs. treatment responsive patients with major depressive disorder.
AB  - Co-morbid physical illness has been suggested to play an important role among the factors contributing to treatment resistance in patients with major depressive disorder. In the current study we compared the rate of physical co-morbidity, defined by ICD-10, among a large multicenter sample of 702 patients with major depressive disorder. A total of 356 of the participants were defined as treatment resistant depression (TRD) patients-having failed two or more adequate antidepressant trials. No significant difference was found between TRD and non-TRD participants in the prevalence of any ICD-10 category. This finding suggests that although physical conditions such as diabetes, thyroid dysfunction, hypertension, ischemic heart disease, and peptic diseases are often accompanied by co-morbid MDD, they do not necessarily have an impact on the course of MDD or the likelihood to respond to treatment. Marginally higher rates of co-morbid breast cancer, migraine and glaucoma were found among TRD participants. Possible explanations for these findings and their possible relation to TRD are discussed.

UI  - 23113645
TI  - Subscleral trabeculectomy with mitomycin-C versus ologen for treatment of glaucoma.
AB  - We conclude that the use of the Ologen implant in SST is comparable to the use of MMC with advantage of avoiding the potential dangerous complications related to MMC use in the early (12 months) follow-up period.

UI  - 23111749
TI  - Relationship of systemic blood pressure with ocular perfusion pressure and intraocular pressure of glaucoma patients in telemedical home monitoring.
AB  - We found that ocular perfusion pressure in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma showed remarkable circadian fluctuations. A significant decrease in the morning was associated with significantly depressed systolic and diastolic blood pressure levels. In addition we observed normal intraocular pressure values in the morning but a significant decrease in the evening which did not affect ocular perfusion pressure. These conclusions strengthen the evidence that systemic blood pressure fundamentally influences ocular circulation and consequently glaucoma progression.

UI  - 23084383
TI  - Glaucoma in the Early Treatment for Retinopathy of Prematurity (ETROP) study.
AB  - Although earlier treatment of significant ROP has resulted in better retinal structure and visual acuity outcomes, nearly 2% of the eyes with high-risk prethreshold ROP developed glaucoma at some point during the first 6 years of life.

UI  - 23079750
TI  - Retinal nerve fiber layer and optic disc measurements by spectral domain OCT: normative values and associations in young adults.
AB  - This study documents normative values for the RNFL and optic disc measured using Cirrus HD-OCT in young adults. The values and associations reported in this study can inform clinicians on the normal variation in RNFL and optic disc parameters.

UI  - 23078067
TI  - High- versus low-density multifocal pupillographic objective perimetry in glaucoma.
AB  - Presentation rate had little effect, but increasing the tested density from 24 to 44 regions/field improved diagnostic power. Given that multifocal pupillographic objective perimetry also provides information on response delay and afferent versus efferent defects at every visual field region, it may be a useful adjunct to perimetry.

UI  - 23076040
TI  - The Italian version of the Glaucoma Symptom Scale Questionnaire: translation, validation, and reliability.
AB  - The Italian version of the GSS Questionnaire has good validity, discriminatory power, internal consistence and reliability, showing psychometric properties comparable with those of the English version, and can therefore be used in clinical research as a specific measure of vision-related quality of life in Italian-speaking patients with ocular hypertension or glaucoma.

UI  - 23066787
TI  - Association of ocular hypotensive medication types with dynamic contour tonometry and Goldmann applanation tonometry measurements in a glaucoma and ocular hypertensive population.
AB  - The difference between DCT and GAT IOP measurements is found to be statistically significantly higher in patients receiving CAIs either as monotherapy or as a part of a combined ocular hypotensive treatment, while DCT and GAT readings remain unaffected. The type of diagnosis and the number of ocular hypotensive medications had no statistically significant influence on IOP.

UI  - 23065047
TI  - Noncompliance with glaucoma medication in Korean patients: a multicenter qualitative study.
AB  - Physicians should address a patient's complaint of blurred vision resulting from medication. Complete initial explanation of the consequences of nonadherence and of the potential vision loss from glaucoma are critical elements in improving patient adherence in Asian populations.

UI  - 23060138
TI  - Multichannel functional testing in normal subjects, glaucoma suspects, and glaucoma patients.
AB  - ATD assessed different aspects of visual function, and the most sensitive tests to detect glaucomatous damage were the low-temporal-frequency chromatic tests.

UI  - 23060025
TI  - Deep sclerectomy in pediatric glaucoma filtering surgery.
AB  - The addition of deep sclerectomy to the procedure of CTTM in pediatric glaucoma surgery facilitates the finding of Schlemm's canal, shortens the duration of surgery, and is not associated with any additional complications. Hence, the author recommends the addition of deep sclerectomy to CTTM surgery for primary congenital glaucoma.

UI  - 23059481
TI  - Early efficacy and complications of releasable sutures for trabeculectomy in primary angle-closure glaucoma: a randomized clinical trial.
AB  - The technique of releasable sutures for trabeculectomy used in this study did not demonstrate significant advantages over standard trabeculectomy. Releasable sutures were associated with some decrease in visual acuity and increase in postoperative complaints.

UI  - 23053339
TI  - [Ahmed glaucoma valve via pars plana access. Long-term results of implantation for therapy refractive glaucoma].
AB  - The implantation of AGV devices using a pars plana approach permits an effective and permanent reduction of intraocular pressure (IOP) even in severe therapy refractive secondary glaucoma; however, the risk of serious sight-threatening complications has to be taken into account.

UI  - 23052714
TI  - Purified triamcinolone acetonide as antifibrotic adjunct in glaucoma filtering surgery.
AB  - The present study demonstrates that in primary trabeculectomy, the 5-year risk profiles of MMC and purified TAC are comparable, suggesting that as an antifibrotic agent TAC is at least as effective as MMC. Prospective randomized trials will need to confirm the agents' relative long-term benefits.

UI  - 23046438
TI  - Effects of black currant anthocyanins on intraocular pressure in healthy volunteers and patients with glaucoma.
AB  - Our results suggested that oral administration of BCACs may induce a beneficial decrease in IOP levels in healthy subjects as well as in patients with glaucoma.

UI  - 23036570
TI  - Retinal nerve fiber layer atrophy is associated with visual field loss over time in glaucoma suspect and glaucomatous eyes.
AB  - Structural progression is associated with functional progression in glaucoma suspect and glaucomatous eyes. Average and superior RNFL thickness may predict subsequent standard automated perimetry loss.

UI  - 23035867
TI  - The effect of changes in intraocular pressure on the risk of primary open-angle glaucoma in patients with ocular hypertension: an application of latent class analysis.
AB  - LCA provides a useful tool to assess the impact of post-randomization IOP level and fluctuation on the risk of developing POAG in patients with ocular hypertension. The incorporation of post-randomization IOP can improve the overall predictive ability of the original model that included only baseline risk factors.

UI  - 23025424
TI  - Adherence improvement in Dutch glaucoma patients: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Patient education is especially useful for new patients with glaucoma. The use of a drop guider does not improve adherence. Especially patients with 'drug holidays' are at risk for developing uncontrolled IOP levels.

UI  - 23025048
TI  - [Effectiveness of 3-hydroxypyridine and succinic acid derivatives in complex treatment of primary open-angle glaucoma].
AB  - Prospective, placebo-controlled, single-blind, randomized clinical investigation of the influence of domestic 3-hydroxypyridine and succinic acid derivatives (emoxipin, reamberin, mexidol) on the effectiveness of a complex treatment of primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) has been performed in a group of patients. It is established that intravenous infusion of 3-hydroxypyridine derivatives (emoxipin and mexidol) for two weeks, beginning 14 days after the start of POAG treatment, produced a retinoprotective action, with three months postponed changes in the central retinal artery (CRA) blood velocity. The retinoprotective effect of emoxipin (single dose, 150 mg) was manifested by reduction in the horizontal size of blind spot in two weeks, with the subsequent reduction of the CRA end-diastolic blood velocity observed three months after finish of the infusion therapy. The administration of mexidol (single dose, 300 mg) after 14 days of treatment led to widening of the summarized field of vision (test-object square, 16 mm), accompanied by a decrease in the electrosensitivity threshold of the optic nerve and the intensity of POAG-associated hypothymia. All indices of CRA blood velocity increased three months after termination of mexidol infusions. Reamberin (single dose, 400 ml 1,5% solution of reamberine, containing polyelectrolyte and meglumine succinate mixture) did not show retinoprotective action, but caused proatherogenic changes of blood lipids and 3 months postponed CRA end-diastolic blood velocity increase. The effect of mexidol (which is a derivative of both 3- hydroxypyridine and succinic acid) exceeds that of separate 3-hydroxypyridine (emoxipin) and succinic acid (reamberin) derivatives in the degree of retinoprotection and positive effect on the optic nerve condition and mood of POAG patients.

UI  - 23001284
TI  - Three-month evaluation of dorzolamide hydrochloride/timolol maleate fixed-combination eye drops versus the separate use of both drugs.
AB  - The replacement of concomitant treatment with dorzolamide hydrochloride 1 % and timolol maleate 0.5 % eye drops with dorzolamide hydrochloride 1 %/timolol maleate 0.5 % fixed-combination eye drops improved protocol adherence and preserved the IOP.

UI  - 22998076
TI  - Phenylephrine 5% added to tropicamide 0.5% eye drops does not influence retinal oxygen saturation values or retinal vessel diameter in glaucoma patients.
AB  - The addition of topical phenylephrine 5% after tropicamide 0.5% improved the proportion of high-quality retinal oximetry images without influencing the retinal oxygen saturation values or the retinal vessel diameter in patients with glaucoma.

UI  - 22994106
TI  - [The influence of water soluble antioxidant agent (mexidol) on optic nerve and blood flow velocity in ocular and orbital arteries in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma].
AB  - The prospective single-blind placebo-controlled randomized trial is devoted to influence of mexidol (2-ethil-6-methil-3-hydroxipiridine succinate) on dynamics of optic nerve electrophysiologic profile and velocity indices of blood flow in ocular and orbital arteries in correlation with changes of retinal photosensitivity, visual acuity and visual field size during course of intravenous mexidol infusions and standard treatment of primary open-angle glaucoma. 2 weeks of intravenous infusions of 300 mg mexidol daily was found to cause depression of optic nerve electrical sensitivity threshold and widening of total visual field (16 mm2 test stimulus) after 14 days of treatment. These effects were not associated with changes of blood flow velocity in ocular and orbital arteries, were transient and came to initial indices 3 months after the end of treatment. Delayed vasotropic effect of mexidol manifested in increase of blood flow velocity in central retinal artery in 90 days after the end of infusions.

UI  - 22986112
TI  - The United Kingdom Glaucoma Treatment Study: a multicenter, randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial: design and methodology.
AB  - The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.

UI  - 22986111
TI  - Phacoemulsification versus trabeculectomy in medically uncontrolled chronic angle-closure glaucoma without cataract.
AB  - The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.

UI  - 22975658
TI  - Differences in central corneal thickness between the paired eyes and the severity of the glaucomatous damage.
AB  - The CCT between the two eyes could be associated to a worse glaucoma in the thinner cornea eye.

UI  - 22971184
TI  - Power prediction for one-piece and three-piece intraocular lens implantation after cataract surgery in patients with chronic angle-closure glaucoma: a prospective, randomized clinical trial.
AB  - Implantation of one-piece IOLs provides similar power prediction accuracy comparable to normal cataract patients; this result may be explained by the IOL haptic configuration or design.

UI  - 22958160
TI  - Effect of adjunctive viscogonioplasty on drainage angle status in cataract surgery: a randomized clinical trial.
AB  - Both Phaco alone and Phaco-VGP resulted in widening of the drainage angle, deepening of the anterior chamber and reduction of intraocular pressure (IOP) and PAS extent in PACG eyes. Phaco-VGP resulted in significantly more reduction of PAS. However, it seems that additional VGP has no significant effect on short-term IOP.

UI  - 22942166
TI  - A clinical and molecular genetics study of primary congenital glaucoma in South Korea.
AB  - No consistent correlation was observed between the initial clinical manifestations and the CYP1B1 genotype. However, the response to treatment was associated with the CYP1B1 mutant alleles. This is the first report discussing the phenotypes of South Korean PCG patients associated with CYP1B1 mutations.

UI  - 22941671
TI  - Rasch validation of a combined measure of basic and extended daily life functioning after stroke.
AB  - The combined measure of the FIM and the NEADL provides a comprehensive picture of ADLs. It extends the utility of the FIM and the NEADL and is recommended for use to measure the independence of patients after discharge home.

UI  - 22937814
TI  - Eye movements during visual search in patients with glaucoma.
AB  - The average rate of saccades made during visual search by this group of patients was fewer than those made by people with normal vision of a similar average age. There was wide variability in saccade rate in the patients but there was an association between an increase in this measure and better performance in the search task. Assessment of eye movements in individuals with glaucoma might provide insight into the functional deficits of the disease.

UI  - 22935671
TI  - Patterns of adherence to NICE glaucoma guidance in two different service delivery models.
AB  - Our study provides evidence to suggest that a hospital-based shared care service with trained optometrists using assessment sheets compares favourably to non-specialist glaucoma care delivered by ophthalmologists.

UI  - 22922662
TI  - Trabeculectomy with or without anterior chamber maintainer and adjustable sutures.
AB  - There is no significant difference in IOP reduction, in frequency of postoperative complications and interventions, or in reduction of medications between the 2 techniques.

UI  - 22885123
TI  - Initial management of acute primary angle closure: a randomized trial comparing phacoemulsification with laser peripheral iridotomy.
AB  - Performed within 1 week in patients with APAC and coexisting cataract, phaco/IOL resulted in lower rate of IOP failure at 2 years compared with LPI.

UI  - 22883301
TI  - Clinical features of bleb-related infection: a 5-year survey in Japan.
AB  - The JGSSBI project has revealed several characteristics of bleb-related infection in Japan, which include the significance of bleb leakage in the development of repeated infections and the distribution of bacterial isolates.

UI  - 22876126
TI  - Erythropoietin levels in aqueous humor of patients with glaucoma.
AB  - Compared to the control group, the aqueous humor EPO concentration is increased in eyes with POAG, PXFG, and NVG, both with and without controlled IOP. The aqueous level of EPO was more proportionate to the level of IOP in eyes with PXFG compared to eyes with POAG and NVG.

UI  - 22847248
TI  - Prospective study on retinal nerve fibre layer changes after an acute episode of phacomorphic angle closure.
AB  - To investigate the retinal nerve fibre layer (RNFL) changes after an acute attack of phacomorphic angle closure. This prospective study involved ten cases of phacomorphic angle closure that underwent cataract extraction and intraocular lens insertion after intraocular pressure lowering. Apart from visual acuity and intraocular pressure (IOP), RNFL thickness and vertical cup disc ratio (VCDR) were measured by optical coherence tomography (OCT) at 3-9 months post attack. Humphrey visual field assessment was performed at 9 months post attack. All cases had mean phacomorphic duration of <5 days. Postoperatively, best correct Snellen visual acuity was 0.4  0.2 and IOP at 9 months was 11.0  3.1 mmHg. There was no difference in VCDR and RNFL between the attack and contralateral eye at 3 months post attack (both p = 0.4). At 9 months post attack, there was significant thinning in the average (p = 0.01), superior (p = 0.01), and inferior (p = 0.006) RNFL. There was no significant difference in the pattern standard deviation (PSD) between the two eyes on the Humphrey visual field nor was there any correlation between PSD severity and RNFL thinning (all p > 0.2. Patients with <5 days duration of phacomorphic angle closure are likely to have reasonable postoperative vision. An acute episode of phacomorphic angle closure can trigger an accelerated RNFL thinning despite normal IOP and open angles, most noticeable in the superior and inferior quadrants, occurring between 3 and 9 months post attack. Glaucomatous optic neuropathy in the attack eye was evident by OCT but not by visual field assessment at the same time interval.

UI  - 22831837
TI  - Association of Toll-like receptor 4 gene polymorphisms in Japanese subjects with primary open-angle, normal-tension, and exfoliation glaucoma.
AB  - This study demonstrated that TLR4 polymorphisms are associated with NTG in the Japanese, and they also play a role in the pathogenesis of POAG and XFG.

UI  - 22828004
TI  - The NEIGHBOR consortium primary open-angle glaucoma genome-wide association study: rationale, study design, and clinical variables.
AB  - Primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) is a common disease with complex inheritance. The identification of genes predisposing to POAG is an important step toward the development of novel gene-based methods of diagnosis and treatment. Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have successfully identified genes contributing to complex traits such as POAG however, such studies frequently require very large sample sizes, and thus, collaborations and consortia have been of critical importance for the GWAS approach. In this report we describe the formation of the NEIGHBOR consortium, the harmonized case control definitions used for a POAG GWAS, the clinical features of the cases and controls, and the rationale for the GWAS study design.

UI  - 22828002
TI  - Combining information from 3 anatomic regions in the diagnosis of glaucoma with time-domain optical coherence tomography.
AB  - With TD-OCT, RNFL and optic disc variables had better diagnostic accuracy than macular retinal variables. Combining top RNFL and optic disc variables significantly improved diagnostic performance. Clinically, or-logic classification was the most practical analytical tool with sufficient accuracy to diagnose early glaucoma.

UI  - 22828000
TI  - Surgical output and clinic burden of glaucoma in lagos, Nigeria.
AB  - Glaucoma visits constitute a significant proportion of eye clinic visits in Lagos state, Nigeria, and therefore, necessary manpower, infrastructure, and equipments should be mobilized for its optimal management. Also, there is a relatively low output of glaucoma surgeries that needs to be further investigated and appropriate measures taken to manage it.

UI  - 22827999
TI  - Anterior chamber angle measurements using Schwalbe's line with high-resolution fourier-domain optical coherence tomography.
AB  - The measurement of AOD-SL by Fourier-domain OCT is highly correlated with gonioscopy and may be a useful noncontact method for assessing angle closure risk.

UI  - 22826832
TI  - A combined index of structure and function for staging glaucomatous damage.
AB  - An index combining structure and function performed better than isolated structural and functional measures for detection of perimetric and preperimetric glaucoma as well as for discriminating different stages of the disease.

UI  - 22818906
TI  - The association of consumption of fruits/vegetables with decreased risk of glaucoma among older African-American women in the study of osteoporotic fractures.
AB  - Higher intake of certain fruits and vegetables high in vitamins A and C and carotenoids may be associated with a decreased likelihood of glaucoma in older African-American women. Randomized controlled trials are needed to determine whether the intake of specific nutrients changes the risk of glaucoma.

UI  - 22814041
TI  - Cataract surgery with trabecular micro-bypass stent implantation in patients with mild-to-moderate open-angle glaucoma and cataract: two-year follow-up.
AB  - Dr. Craven was an investigator in the clinical trial of the iStent. Dr. Katz is a consultant to Glaukos and was the medical monitor for the clinical trial of the iStent. Dr. Katz is a stockholder in Glaukos. Mr. Wells and Ms. Giamporcaro are employees of Glaukos.

UI  - 22790513
TI  - Efficacy of intravitreal bevacizumab with panretinal photocoagulation followed by Ahmed valve implantation in neovascular glaucoma.
AB  - Intravitreal bevacizumab (Avastin) with PRP followed by Ahmed valve implantation appears to be effective in the management of NVG.

UI  - 22775229
TI  - A double-masked randomized crossover study comparing the effect of latanoprost/timolol and brimonidine/timolol fixed combination on intraocular pressure and ocular blood flow in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
AB  - In the present study, a 6-week treatment with LT or BT was equally effective in reducing IOP. In addition, none of the administered drugs induced a significant effect on ocular blood flow parameters.

UI  - 22773901
TI  - SNP rs1533428 at 2p16.3 as a marker for late-onset primary open-angle glaucoma.
AB  - Our study reveals discrepant association patterns of 12 candidate SNPs in 7 genes/loci with POAG in Chinese, provides positive replications for POAG markers rs1533428 at 2p16.3 and TLR4 rs7037117, and suggests that rs1533428 is a putative risk variant for late-onset POAG. The identification of an age-specific association between rs1533428 and late-onset POAG highlights a new genotype-phenotype association in POAG. Further studies are warranted to confirm the age-specific association.

UI  - 22773091
TI  - Clinical characteristics of newly diagnosed primary, pigmentary and pseudoexfoliative open-angle glaucoma in the Collaborative Initial Glaucoma Treatment Study.
AB  - Characteristics of newly diagnosed enrollees differed by the type of OAG. While some of these differences relate to the pathogenesis of OAG type, other differences are noteworthy for further evaluation within population-based samples of subjects with newly diagnosed OAG.

UI  - 22770575
TI  - Fixed topical combinations in glaucomatous patients and ocular discomfort.
AB  - This work shows the better tolerability of brinzolamide 1% plus timolol 0.5% suspension, compared with dorzolamide 2% plus timolol 0.5% solution. Fortunately, some of the adverse reactions induced by preserved eye drop glaucoma medication are reversible after removing the preservatives. Both the potential for added benefit and patient compliance should be considered when selecting ocular hypotensive therapy.

UI  - 22743828
TI  - Long-term efficacy of goniosynechialysis combined with phacoemulsification for primary angle closure.
AB  - The outcome of phaco-GSL for PAC/PACG may depend on age, preoperative IOP, and postoperative LPI.

UI  - 22731246
TI  - Comparison of needle revision with subconjunctival bevacizumab and 5-fluorouracil injection of failed trabeculectomy blebs.
AB  - Subconjunctival 5-FU application is a more effective therapy than bevacizumab application for needling procedures in failed trabeculectomy blebs.

UI  - 22731245
TI  - Oral administration of forskolin and rutin contributes to intraocular pressure control in primary open angle glaucoma patients under maximum tolerated medical therapy.
AB  - Forskolin and rutin given as oral treatment appear to contribute to a better control and a further small reduction of IOP in patients who were poorly responsive to multitherapy treatment.

UI  - 22727177
TI  - Sustained delivery fluocinolone acetonide vitreous inserts provide benefit for at least 3 years in patients with diabetic macular edema.
AB  - In patients with DME FAc inserts provide substantial visual benefit for up to 3 years and would provide a valuable addition to the options available for patients with DME.

UI  - 22712537
TI  - Intravitreal ranibizumab as an adjunct for Ahmed valve surgery in open-angle glaucoma: a pilot study.
AB  - The findings from this small pilot comparative study suggest that intravitreal ranibizumab use may be a safe and potentially effective adjunctive treatment modality in improving success after Ahmed tube placement.

UI  - 22706336
TI  - Intraocular pressure-reducing effects of latanoprost versus timolol in chinese patients with chronic angle-closure glaucoma.
AB  - Once-daily administration of latanoprost 0.005% was significantly more effective in reducing IOP in Chinese patients with CACG than twice-daily instillation of timolol 0.5%. Both agents were well tolerated.

UI  - 22696863
TI  - A comparison of 0.1% timolol eye gel and 0.5% timolol eye drop in patients with chronic angle-closure glaucoma.
AB  - Timolol 0.5% eye drop and 0.1% timolol eye gel effectively reduced IOP in chronic angle-closure glaucoma patients. There was no statistically significant difference in the ocular hypotensive effect of both drugs over a 24-hour period. There was no ocular side effect. Systemic side effect was clinically insignificant difference in both groups.

UI  - 22696861
TI  - Agreement and reproducibility of Tono-Pen XL tip covered with ocufilm and fingertip of surgical glove in intra-ocular pressure measurement.
AB  - A significant agreement exists between using Ocufilm and the fingertip of a surgical glove to cover the tip of a Tono-Pen XL for measuring IOP The coefficient of repeatability was comparable between the two different types of tip covers. When measuring IOP the tip of a Tono-Pen XL could therefore be covered by either Ocufilm or the fingertip of a surgical glove without compromising accuracy.

UI  - 22690869
TI  - The longitudinal changes of the visual field in an Asian population with primary angle-closure glaucoma with and without an acute attack.
AB  - Glaucomatous VF damage in Asian patients with APACG was detected after a 6-month follow-up period, despite the presence of laser peripheral iridotomy in this population. In the patients with CPACG, there was no significant difference in the MD and CPSD during the follow-up period. Patients with APACG would benefit from regular monitoring of the decline in the VF.

UI  - 22688429
TI  - Impact of a health communication intervention to improve glaucoma treatment adherence. Results of the interactive study to increase glaucoma adherence to treatment trial.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier:NCT00794170.

UI  - 22687295
TI  - Referral source, symptoms, and severity at diagnosis of ocular hypertension or open-angle glaucoma in various practices.
AB  - Nearly half of the patients with OAG had moderate or advanced disease at the time of initial diagnosis. Although optometrists were responsible for the majority of the referrals, the proportion was significantly less for advanced disease. These results raise the possibility of suboptimal detection services for glaucoma.

UI  - 22678051
TI  - Effects of caffeinated coffee consumption on intraocular pressure, ocular perfusion pressure, and ocular pulse amplitude: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Consuming one cup of caffeinated coffee (182 mg caffeine) statistically increases, but likely does not clinically impact, IOP and OPP in those with or at risk for POAG.

UI  - 22676881
TI  - Shared care for chronic eye diseases: perspectives of ophthalmologists, optometrists and patients.
AB  - Shared care between local optometrists and hospital-based ophthalmologists can help to reduce patient waiting time for review and offers an opportunity for these two groups of eye care professionals to collaborate in providing localised care for the benefit of patients. However, trust and relationship building need to be further developed.

UI  - 22668978
TI  - The effect of selective laser trabeculoplasty on aqueous humor dynamics in patients with ocular hypertension and primary open-angle glaucoma.
AB  - Our results show that SLT lowers the IOP by increasing the outflow through the trabecular meshwork, but it has no significant effect on the aqueous flow rate.

UI  - 22661486
TI  - Genome-wide analysis of central corneal thickness in primary open-angle glaucoma cases in the NEIGHBOR and GLAUGEN consortia.
AB  - The results suggest previously reported CCT loci are not significantly associated with POAG susceptibility. By performing a quantitative analysis of CCT and a subsequent analysis of POAG, SNPs in two cell adhesion molecules, NTM and CNTNAP4, were identified and may increase POAG susceptibility in a subset of cases.

UI  - 22654632
TI  - Characterization and comparison of the 10-2 SITA-standard and fast algorithms.
AB  - The 10-2 SITA-fast algorithm is significantly shorter than SITA-standard. The two programs have similar long-term variability. Average same-visit between-program and same-program between-visit sensitivity results were similar for the study population, but clinically significant variability was observed for some individual test pairs. Group inter- and intra-program test results may be comparable, but in the management of the individual patient field change should be verified by repeat testing.

UI  - 22623860
TI  - Macular retinal and nerve fiber layer thickness in early glaucoma: clinical correlations.
AB  - The finding that RT was significantly lower in early manifest glaucoma patients and glaucoma suspects indicates that the transposition of the OCT fast RNFL thickness (3.4) protocol from the peri-papillary area to the peri-macular area can be used for early glaucoma diagnosis. Intraretinal changes in early glaucoma, likely precede nerve fiber changes.

UI  - 22613648
TI  - Comparison of combined phacotrabeculectomy with trabeculectomy only in the treatment of primary angle-closure glaucoma.
AB  - Phacotrabeculectomy and trabeculectomy treatments exhibit similar IOP reduction, successful rates, and complications when it comes to treating PACG patients with coexisting cataract, although additional surgery intervention may be needed for a few cases with cataract and complications after trabeculectomy.

UI  - 22608478
TI  - Reduction in intraocular pressure after cataract extraction: the Ocular Hypertension Treatment Study.
AB  - Cataract surgery decreases IOP in patients with ocular hypertension over a long period of time.

UI  - 22607109
TI  - A 4-week, dose-ranging study comparing the efficacy, safety and tolerability of latanoprost 75, 100 and 125 g/mL to latanoprost 50 g/mL (xalatan) in the treatment of primary open-angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension.
AB  - Clinical Trials.gov Identifier NCT01379144.

UI  - 22606063
TI  - A prospective study evaluating IOP changes after switching from a therapy with prostaglandin eye drops containing preservatives to nonpreserved tafluprost in glaucoma patients.
AB  - After 3 months of switching tafluprost showed an overall IOP lowering effect similar to others PGAs. When each PGA was compared with tafluprost, bimatoprost showed to provide a statistically significant additional IOP lowering effect.

UI  - 22595934
TI  - An evaluation of therapeutic noninferiority of 0.005% latanoprost ophthalmic solution and xalatan in patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
AB  - This study demonstrates that 0.005% latanoprost ophthalmic solution is noninferior to Xalatan in lowering IOP and is generally well tolerated.

UI  - 22581454
TI  - Efficacy and safety of switching to travoprost/timolol fixed-combination therapy from latanoprost monotherapy.
AB  - Compared to latanoprost monotherapy, TTFC therapy significantly reduced IOP and decreased the heart rate in the patient cohort. No differences were found in terms of patients' impressions.

UI  - 22572718
TI  - Short-term changes in intraocular pressure after phacoemulsification in glaucoma patients.
AB  - A significant short-term IOP increase may be found after phacoemulsification both in POAG and normal patients; this is not dangerous in normal subjects, but can be potentially dangerous in POAG patients. The use of systemic acetazolamide provided significant control of IOP and could be considered a 'possible standard' management of cataract surgery in POAG patients.

UI  - 22569857
TI  - Nonpenetrating very deep sclerectomy with hyaluronic acid implant vs trabeculectomy--a 2-year follow-up.
AB  - NPVDS is a modification of NPDS devised for patients with medically uncontrolled open-angle glaucoma.

UI  - 22568428
TI  - A study of initial therapy for glaucoma in southern India: India Glaucoma Outcomes and Treatment (INGOT) Study.
AB  - Trabeculectomy lowered IOP significantly more than medical treatment, but with slightly greater loss of visual acuity. Combined phaco/IOL and trabeculectomy improved visual acuity with substantial IOP lowering.

UI  - 22559867
TI  - Intraocular pressure-lowering effect of 0.005% latanoprost with two different dosing regimens.
AB  - Once every-other-day administration of latanoprost significantly reduced the IOP although the IOP reduction was less pronounced 36-48h after drug application.

UI  - 22555462
TI  - [Effectiveness of selective laser trabeculoplasty in patients with insufficient control of intraocular pressure despite maximum tolerated medical therapy].
AB  - Even in patients already on maximum IOP lowering medication, SLT has the potential to significantly reduce IOP up to 1 year after treatment. The IOP reduction is most pronounced in phakic eyes with high preoperative IOP.

UI  - 22551449
TI  - Use of a fibrin adhesive for conjunctival closure in trabeculectomy.
AB  - The use of Tissucol Duo() seems to be a safe and efficient option for conjunctival closure in trabeculectomy that simplifies the surgical procedure and reduces patient discomfort in the immediate postoperative period.

UI  - 22549238
TI  - Subclinical increased anterior stromal reflectivity with topical taprenepag isopropyl.
AB  - Anterior stromal reflectivity may remain increased even when biomicroscopic and confocal images of corneal layers remain normal or have recovered after topical taprenepag. This subclinical measure may be useful to detect a persistent adverse effect of a topical agent on the cornea.

UI  - 22531702
TI  - Ethnic difference of the anterior chamber area and volume and its association with angle width.
AB  - Compared with Caucasians, ethnic Chinese had smaller ACA/ACV independent of ACD, ACW, ICurv, IArea, PD, CR, and AL. ACA/ACV is the most prominent contributor to angle width variation for both Chinese and Caucasians in this study.

UI  - 22511836
TI  - The effect of various factors on variability of retinal nerve fiber layer thickness measurements using optical coherence tomography.
AB  - Glaucomatous eyes tend to be more variable than normal eyes in RNFL thickness measurement using the Straus OCT. The average SS and the relative SS changes appear to correlate with the variability in RNFL thickness measurement. Therefore, the results of the RNFL analysis should not be interpreted independently of these factors.

UI  - 22458918
TI  - Fixed-combination brimonidine-timolol versus latanoprost in glaucoma and ocular hypertension: a 12-week, randomized, comparison study.
AB  - Fixed-combination brimonidine-timolol was as effective as latanoprost in reducing IOP in patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension. Both treatments demonstrated favorable ocular tolerability. The duration of the study was 12 weeks, and additional studies will be needed to compare the efficacy and safety of fixed-combination brimonidine-timolol and latanoprost during long-term treatment.

UI  - 22452233
TI  - [Effect of a tight necktie on intraocular pressure].
AB  - Wearing a tight necktie for a limited period of time during the day could be considered as a possible risk factor for glaucoma development.

UI  - 22429268
TI  - Bleb vascularity following post-trabeculectomy subconjunctival bevacizumab: a pilot study.
AB  - After a single combined injection, a trend for increased central bleb avascularity was observed, although this effect was not sufficient to reach statistical significance. This, in addition to the occurrence of two bleb-related complications in the bevacizumab group, suggests the need for a larger clinical trial to further evaluate the safety and efficacy of bevacizumab as a modulating agent in glaucoma filtration surgery.

UI  - 22424576
TI  - Visual symptoms and retinal straylight after laser peripheral iridotomy: the Zhongshan Angle-Closure Prevention Trial.
AB  - These results suggests that LPI is safe regarding measures of straylight and visual symptoms. This randomized design provides strong evidence that treatment programs for narrow angles would be unlikely to result in important medium-term visual disability.

UI  - 22411660
TI  - Effect of race, age, and axial length on optic nerve head parameters and retinal nerve fiber layer thickness measured by Cirrus HD-OCT.
AB  - There are racial differences in optic disc area, average cup-disc ratio, vertical cup-disc ratio, cup volume, and RNFL thickness as measured by Cirrus HD-OCT. These differences should be considered when using Cirrus HD-OCT to assess for glaucomatous damage in differing population groups.

UI  - 22411021
TI  - Adherence to glaucoma medication: the effect of interventions and association with personality type.
AB  - Monthly automated telephone reminders, a 1-time educational session, and increased contact with a physician did not improve adherence rate with glaucoma medications. Depression and hypochondriasis personality types were related to poor adherence and highlight the role of psychosocial factors in medication adherence.

UI  - 22410552
TI  - Evaluation of SNPs on chromosome 2p with primary open angle glaucoma in the South Indian cohort.
AB  - This was the first study to demonstrate the association of SNPs on chromosome 2p in patients with POAG in the Indian population. The two tagging SNPs (rs10202118 and rs11125375) on chromosome 2p are the most likely sites underlying the significant association with POAG in this study population.

UI  - 22410350
TI  - Changes in anterior segment morphology after laser peripheral iridotomy: an anterior segment optical coherence tomography study.
AB  - This study confirms that LPI results in a significant increase in the angle width in PACS. The ACA and ACV increased after LPI, but there was no change in ACD, ACW, LV, IT, or I-area. The increase in ACA/ACV was mainly due to decreased I-curv after LPI.

UI  - 22407393
TI  - Comparison of the utility of Pascal dynamic contour tonometry with Goldmann applanation tonometry in routine clinical practice.
AB  - Clinicians found Pascal tonometry significantly more time consuming and difficult than Goldmann tonometry in routine practice. Most eyes required repeated Pascal measurements, and for some an acceptable result was not obtained. Both types of tonometry were well tolerated by patients.

UI  - 22399693
TI  - Spanish multicenter tafluprost tolerability study.
AB  - Preservative-free tafluprost is a well tolerated hypotensive agent that can be used in eyes with surface problems and in naive eyes.

UI  - 22395889
TI  - Effect of treatment on the rate of visual field change in the ocular hypertension treatment study observation group.
AB  - The initiation of ocular hypotensive medication among OHTS participants originally randomized to observation significantly reduced the velocity of VF progression.

UI  - 22377796
TI  - Two-year randomized, placebo-controlled study of black currant anthocyanins on visual field in glaucoma.
AB  - Our results suggest that oral administration of BCACs may be a safe and promising supplement for patients with OAG in addition to antiglaucoma medication.

UI  - 22370470
TI  - Long-term effect of phacoemulsification on intraocular pressure using phakic fellow eye as control.
AB  - No author has a financial or proprietary interest in any material or method mentioned.

UI  - 22365056
TI  - Glaucoma diagnostic accuracy of ganglion cell-inner plexiform layer thickness: comparison with nerve fiber layer and optic nerve head.
AB  - Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.

UI  - 22364584
TI  - Identification and characterization of mesenchymal stem cells derived from the trabecular meshwork of the human eye.
AB  - Mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) have been isolated from several adult human tissues. Their propensity to differentiate into cell types of connective tissue, such as osteocytes, chondrocytes, and adipocytes, suggests that MSC may function as a reserve of progenitor cells that repair and maintain healthy adult tissues. Dysfunction of the trabecular meshwork (TM), a connective tissue at the anterior region of the human eye that regulates intraocular pressure, plays a major role in the pathogenesis of glaucoma. The mechanobiology and pharmacological aspects of the TM tissue have been relatively well studied in disease states. Less well understood is if there are progenitor cells within the TM that contribute to maintenance of this tissue. In this study, we have identified and characterized an expandable population of cells that have stem cell-like properties. In particular, these cells express the markers CD73, CD90, and CD105, which are typically associated with MSC. Thus, we have named these cells TM-MSC. As further evidence that these cells are MSC, they were differentiated in vitro into adipocytes, osteocytes, and chondrocytes. Through genomic characterization, we show that TM-MSC have gene expression patterns most similar to MSC derived from other tissues. TM-MSC express genes found on adult TM tissue, suggesting that TM-MSC are progenitor cells that serve to maintain a healthy TM.

UI  - 22344189
TI  - Comparison of trabeculectomy and Ex-PRESS implantation in fellow eyes of the same patient: a prospective, randomised study.
AB  - Trabeculectomy and Ex-PRESS implantation provided similar IOP control, but the Ex-PRESS group had a lower rate of complications, fewer postoperative interventions, and needed less glaucoma medications.

UI  - 22335426
TI  - Efficacy of single glaucoma medication in combined latanoprost and timolol XE therapy in patients with open-angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension: a discontinuation study.
AB  - There was a significant increase in IOP from discontinuation of timolol XE and latanoprost. The hypotensive effect of latanoprost in the combined drug therapy is significantly greater compared with timolol XE.

UI  - 22333852
TI  - The influence of central corneal thickness on response to topical prostaglandin analogue therapy.
AB  - We found a statistically significantly association between a lower mean IOP and a thinner cornea when baseline IOP is controlled for. The magnitude of the relationship is small but may be clinically significant in patients with either very thin or very thick corneas.

UI  - 22321499
TI  - [Assess correlation between bleb morphology at long-term intraocular pressure effect in primary angle-closure glaucoma following trabeculectomy].
AB  - Early filtering bleb with microcysts, vascular, and age are identified as important factors to predict long-term IOP effect in patients with PACG after trabeculectomy but not early morphological appearance of filtering bleb.

UI  - 22321497
TI  - [The efficacy of low-energy selective laser trabeculoplasty].
AB  - Low-energy SLT is as effective in lowering IOP with less complications compared with conventional laser energy SLT, which can be considered as an option for glaucoma therapy.

UI  - 22321495
TI  - [The blood-aqueous barrier changes after laser peripheral iridotomy or surgery peripheral iridectomy].
AB  - Our results demonstrated that IOP spike in both of LPI and SPI is due, at least in part, to BAB damage, which appears to be more severe in LPI group and can recover within two weeks. PAS progression and central corneal endothelium cell loss are not aggravated in 1 month after operation.

UI  - 22321056
TI  - Evaluation of Pentacam-Scheimpflug imaging of anterior segment parameters in patients with pseudoexfoliation syndrome and pseudoexfoliative glaucoma.
AB  - Although anterior chamber depths in the PXG group were significantly lower than the control group (p < 0.05), there was no statistically significant difference between the PXS group and the control group in means of anterior chamber depth values (p > 0.05). There were no statistically significant differences among PXS, PXG and the control group in mean values of ACV, ACA width, CCT, pupil diameters and central 3.0, 5.0 and 7.0 mm corneal volume (p > 0.05). conclusions: The anterior chamber depths of PXG patients were lower than those of healthy individuals. Although the difference in anterior chamber depth between PXG patients and normal patients was statistically significant, this finding is unlikely to be of clinical significance. The anterior chamber depths of PXS patients were similar to those of healthy individuals. There were no significant differences in the means of ACV, ACA width, CCT, pupil diameter and corneal volume values on central 3.0, 5.0 and 7.0 mm among patients with PXS, PXG and healthy individuals.

UI  - 22320418
TI  - Comparison of dorzolamide/timolol and latanoprost/timolol fixed combinations on diurnal intraocular pressure control in primary open-angle glaucoma.
AB  - Mean diurnal IOP and peak IOP were lower with LTFC than with DTFC in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma.

UI  - 22310086
TI  - Randomized clinical trial of the efficacy and safety of preservative-free tafluprost and timolol in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
AB  - The IOP-lowering effect of PF tafluprost was noninferior to that of PF timolol. PF tafluprost is an efficacious and generally well-tolerated ocular hypotensive agent.

UI  - 22295551
TI  - [Ligation of the retrobulbar vascular-nervous bunch during performance of evisceration and enucleation using titanic clips in ophthalmic surgery].
AB  - The efficacy of hemostasis achievement during conduction of a retrobulbar vascular-nervous bunch ligation (RVNBL), using titanic clips while evisceroenucleation performance, was studied up. A comparative analysis of clinical and functional results of surgical treatment of 36 patients, suffering terminal dolorous glaucoma and disaster of a sympathetic ophthalmia complication after an eye penetrating wounding occurrence. In 16 patients (the first group) a standard method of a hemostasis achievement was used while doing evisceroenucleation - a deep orbital tamponade for 5 minutes. In 20 patients (the second group) a procedure of RVNBL was conducted, using titanic clips before the bunch transsection doing. There was established, that while doing a RVNPL using titanic clips, a hemorrhage never occurs, a retrobulbar hematoma do not formated, the soft tissues reaction in the early postoperative period is less pronounced, and the patients postoperative rehabilitation period shortens.

UI  - 22283238
TI  - Efficacy of single glaucoma drug in combined timolol XE, latanoprost and brinzolamide therapy: a discontinuation study.
AB  - There was a significant increase in IOP from discontinuation of timolol XE, latanoprost, and brinzolamide in the multiple drug treatment. The hypotensive effect of latanoprost in the combined drug therapy is significantly greater than the effects of timolol XE and brinzolamide.

UI  - 22266109
TI  - Integrating event- and trend-based analyses to improve detection of glaucomatous visual field progression.
AB  - A Bayesian hierarchical modeling approach for integrating event- and trend-based assessments of visual field progression performed better than either method used alone. Estimates of rates of change obtained from the Bayesian model had increased precision and may be superior to the conventional OLS method for providing information on the risk of development of functional impairment in the disease.

UI  - 22246943
TI  - Short-term effects of brimonidine/timolol and dorzolamide/timolol on ocular perfusion pressure and blood flow in glaucoma.
AB  - In this cohort of patients with OAG, short-term treatment with brimonidine/timolol and dorzolamide/timolol results in similar effects on OPP and retrobulbar blood flow velocities.

UI  - 22245458
TI  - Treatment outcomes in the Tube Versus Trabeculectomy (TVT) study after five years of follow-up.
AB  - Tube shunt surgery had a higher success rate compared to trabeculectomy with MMC during 5 years of follow-up in the TVT Study. Both procedures were associated with similar IOP reduction and use of supplemental medical therapy at 5 years. Additional glaucoma surgery was needed more frequently after trabeculectomy with MMC than tube shunt placement.

UI  - 22244522
TI  - Postoperative complications in the Tube Versus Trabeculectomy (TVT) study during five years of follow-up.
AB  - A large number of surgical complications were observed in the TVT Study, but most were transient and self-limited. The incidence of early postoperative complications was higher following trabeculectomy with MMC than tube shunt surgery. The rates of late postoperative complications, reoperation for complications, and cataract extraction were similar with both surgical procedures after 5 years of follow-up.

UI  - 22220459
TI  - Corneal thickness in congenital glaucoma.
AB  - Central corneal thickness is very important measurement in glaucoma treatment because it influences the eye pressure measurements. A thinner cornea gives us artifactually lower intraocular pressure and a thicker cornea gives higher intraocular pressure reading, so it has to be corrected in both cases. The aim of this study is to compare central corneal thickness between congenital glaucoma patients and normal subjects. Prospective study included 27 patients with congenital glaucoma and 35 patients in control group. First group was subdivided in two subgroups: A--8 earlier operated patients, B--19 patients treated with topic therapy. Patients had no other corneal disorders, history of trauma, corneal surgery and they were not contact lens wearers. Measurements were performed by specular microscope Tomey EM 3000 on central corneas. This study showed that patients with congenital glaucoma have lower central corneal thickness than normal subjects. Also, the study showed that antiglaucomatous operation doesn't influence central corneal thickness. Central corneal thickness need to be a routine part of examination measurements because of need to correct intraocular pressure according to it, but also the thinner corneas values can suggest congenital glaucoma diagnosis beside the other parameters.

UI  - 22220458
TI  - Corneal thickness in pseudoexfoliative glaucoma.
AB  - Measurements of central cornea thickness (CCT) have a very important value in glaucoma patients; if the central cornea is thinner than it suggests, then the intraocular pressure is falsely low. This study compares the central cornea thickness between patients with pseudoexfoliative glaucoma, open angle glaucoma, angle closure glaucoma and control group. This study included 34 patients with pseudoexfoliative glaucoma, 31 patient with open angle laucoma, 28 patients with angle closure laucoma and 36 normal subjects in a control group. Patients in all groups and also normal subjects in control group had no other corneal disorders, no history of trauma, corneal surgery and were not patients with contacts lens use. Patients with pseudoexfoliative glaucoma and also patients with open angle glaucoma had significantly lower values of central cornea thickness compared with normal subjects in control group. Tomey EM 3000 is a non contact specular microscope which was used to measure central corneal thickness in this study. Pachymetry is an important method for diagnoses of glaucoma and for examination of the intraocular pressure in glaucoma patients, because values of the central corneal thickness affect the exact intraocular pressure readings.

UI  - 22220401
TI  - Clinical experience with Ex-press Mini Glaucoma Shunt implantation.
AB  - In this prospective study we wanted to report our experience and to evaluate the efficacy and safety of Ex-press Mini-Glaucoma Shunt implantation under a superficial scleral flap, as a newly and improved surgical technology in a treatment of POAG (Primary open-angle glaucoma) and refractory glaucoma. 44 eyes (35 patients) underwent an implantation of Ex-Press Mini Glaucoma Shunt. We had 21 patients with POAG (60%) and 14 patients with PEXG-pseudoexfoliation glaucoma (40%). The follow-up period was 8.62 + 7.48 months (range 2-22 months). Main outcome measures included postoperative IOP control, postoperative medications and early postoperative complications. The IOP was measured in the following postoperative time-points of 1 day, 1 week, 1, 3, 6, 9 and 12 months. The mean IOP values 1 year postoperatively were reduced for 52.8% compared to preoperative values and the use of medications were reduced for 77%. We had complications like postoperative hypotony (3.5%), choroidal ablation (7%), intraocular hemorrhage (3.5%) and postoperative shunt closure (3.5%). The Ex PRESS Mini Glaucoma Shunt implanted under a superficial scleral flap is relatively safe and effective surgical procedure and provides satisfactory IOP control and medication reduction. However, device related complications remain still a problem.

UI  - 22207522
TI  - Comparison of fixed combinations of dorzolamide/timolol and brimonidine/timolol in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma.
AB  - To compare the short-term effectiveness and ocular side-effects of fixed combinations of dorzolamide/timolol (DTFC) and brimonidine/timolol (BTFC) in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG). Forty-two eyes of 42 patients newly diagnosed with primary open-angle glaucoma were assessed prospectively. One of the two eyes was chosen randomly and treated with DTFC (21) for 4weeks. The treatment was then stopped to allow a 4-week wash-out period. Following the wash-out period, the same eye was treated with BTFC (21) for 4weeks. Intraocular pressure (IOP) values were measured before and after each treatment at 0800, 1,200 and 1,600h. Tear function test results and ocular side-effects were also recorded. The mean baseline IOP values for DTFC and BTFC were 24.11.8 and 24.62.4mmHg, respectively. The mean IOP values after 4weeks of treatment with DTFC or BTFC were 17.12.9 and 16.92.5mmHg, respectively. Both medications reduced IOP values significantly (P=0.0000). The effectiveness of both medications was similar (P=0.7363). Both combinations significantly reduced the amount of tear secretion and tear break-up time (P=0.0000). Eye burning was more common with DTFC than with BTFC (P=0.0182). Other adverse effects were observed at similar rates for both combinations. This study demonstrated that the IOP-reducing effects of DTFC and BTFC in patients with POAG are similar. The side-effect profile of BTFC is similar to that of DTFC. Lower occurrence of a burning sensation may improve patient compliance in the BTFC group.

UI  - 22203463
TI  - Preservation of corneal endothelium after pars plana tube insertion of the Ahmed glaucoma valve.
AB  - Corneal endothelial damage was minimal, and the success probability was relatively high after ppAGV in refractive glaucoma cases.

UI  - 22190528
TI  - [Therapeutic effect of compound anisodine for primary open angle glaucoma].
AB  - Compound anisodine can protect optic nerve of POAG through improving the visual function and blood supply of optic nerve.

UI  - 22189825
TI  - [Central corneal thickness and corneal endothelial morphology with and without therapy using commercially available antiglaucomatous drugs].
AB  - Corneal endothelial morphology showed a significant reduction of CD under therapy with BB compared to the no-treatment group. As this was not found on comparing individual medications, it could be a statistical phenomenon of larger counts and thus of secondary clinical concern. Significant differences of CCT were found with antiglaucomatous medications. When adjusting Goldmann tonometry with pachymetry this should be taken into account in order to prevent a misinterpretation of the therapeutic effects of locally applied eye drops.

UI  - 22167541
TI  - Comparison of a travoprost BAK-free formulation preserved with polyquaternium-1 with BAK-preserved travoprost in ocular hypertension or open-angle glaucoma.
AB  - Travoprost BAK-free safely and effectively lowers IOP in eyes with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension. This BAK-free formulation has comparable safety, efficacy, and duration of IOP-lowering effect to travoprost preserved with BAK. Travoprost BAK-free is an effective option for IOP reduction while avoiding BAK exposure.

UI  - 22167539
TI  - Latanoprost 0.005% test formulation is as effective as Xalatan in patients with ocular hypertension and primary open-angle glaucoma.
AB  - Bausch & Lomb latanoprost 0.005% is clinically equivalent to Xalatan for treating OH and POAG as demonstrated through this unique comparative trial.

UI  - 22159015
TI  - The rate of visual field change in the ocular hypertension treatment study.
AB  - Eyes that develop POAG have significantly worse MDRs than eyes that do not. Eyes that reached endpoints due to both VF and optic disc change had worse MDRs than eyes displaying change in only one of these. MDR was not significantly associated with randomization, suggesting that MDR may not be the best measure of VF change in early-stage POAG. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00000125.).

UI  - 22153707
TI  - Randomized, controlled trial of a sustained delivery formulation of 5-fluorouracil for the treatment of failing blebs.
AB  - Subconjunctival injection of HA-5FU to revive bleb function after bleb needling is as effective as 5FU solution. Fewer repeat needlings were required after treatment with HA-5FU, suggesting that the use of a combined formulation of HA-5FU may improve the overall outcomes of bleb needlings.

UI  - 22139613
TI  - Clinical and electrophysiologic outcome in patients with neovascular glaucoma treated with and without bevacizumab.
AB  - This study suggests that intravitreal injection of bevacizumab is valuable in the treatment of NVG by hastening the resolution of neovascularization, while the full-field ERG results indicate that bevacizumab may reduce the photoreceptor function in NVG patients.

UI  - 22131777
TI  - Comparison of the outcome of repeat trabeculectomy with adjunctive mitomycin C and initial trabeculectomy.
AB  - Repeat trabeculectomy with MMC has high success and low complication rates in patients with previously failed trabeculectomy in spite of the need of higher number of anti-glaucoma medications.

UI  - 22118999
TI  - Risk of acute angle closure and changes in intraocular pressure after pupillary dilation in Asian subjects with narrow angles.
AB  - The risk of AAC among Asian subjects with narrow angles was low after pupillary dilation with tropicamide and oral acetazolamide prophylaxis. The presence of narrower angle width by gonioscopy was the only clinical parameter identified for a significant IOP increase after pupil dilation.

UI  - 22116959
TI  - Objective perimetry using a four-channel multifocal VEP system: correlation with conventional perimetry and thickness of the retinal nerve fibre layer.
AB  - This study has been registered at http://www.clinicaltrials.gov (NCT00494923).

UI  - 22110164
TI  - Circadian intraocular pressure and blood pressure reduction with timolol 0.5% solution and timogel 0.1% in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma.
AB  - Both timolol formulations show similar and significant circadian efficacy and have minimal effects on BP and calculated diastolic ocular perfusion pressure.

UI  - 22087857
TI  - The influence of topical prostaglandin analogues in inflammation after selective laser trabeculoplasty treatment.
AB  - SLT treatment effects do not seem to be influenced by the use of prostaglandin analogues.

UI  - 22084157
TI  - Glaucoma-related adverse events in the Infant Aphakia Treatment Study: 1-year results.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00212134.

UI  - 22076986
TI  - Differences in baseline dark and the dark-to-light changes in anterior chamber angle parameters in whites and ethnic Chinese.
AB  - Compared with the Caucasians, the ethnic Chinese had smaller ARA and TISA, but greater dark-to-light changes in AOD and TISA, independent of refractive status and overall ocular anterior segment dimensions.

UI  - 22036632
TI  - Immediate changes in intraocular pressure after laser peripheral iridotomy in primary angle-closure suspects.
AB  - Laser peripheral iridotomy in primary angle-closure suspects resulted in significant IOP rise in 9.8% and 0.82% of cases at 1 hour and 2 weeks, respectively. Eyes in which more laser energy and a higher number of laser pulses were used and those with shallower central anterior chambers were at increased risk for IOP spikes at 1 hour after laser peripheral iridotomy.

UI  - 22027935
TI  - Learning effect and test-retest variability of pulsar perimetry.
AB  - The Pulsar Perimetry CP-T30W test did not show significant learning effect in patients with standard automated perimetry experience. TRV for global indices was generally low, and was not related to patient age; it was only slightly affected by VF defect eccentricity, and significantly influenced by VF loss severity.

UI  - 22027932
TI  - Postoperative treatment with topical diclofenac versus topical dexamethasone after combined phacotrabeculectomy with mitomycin C.
AB  - In this preliminary study, diclofenac sodium is at least as good as topical dexamethasone phosphate for glaucoma patients undergoing two-site combined phacotrabeculectomy with mitomycin C.

UI  - 22018707
TI  - Association between corneal biomechanical properties and glaucoma severity.
AB  - The current study found only a weak relationship between corneal biomechanical parameters and measures of structural and functional damage in glaucoma.

UI  - 22011049
TI  - Ocular hypotensive effects and safety over 3 months of switching from an unfixed combination to latanoprost 0.005%/timolol maleate 0.5% fixed combination.
AB  - The switch from the concomitant use of latanoprost 0.005% and timolol maleate 0.5% eye drops to latanoprost 0.005%/timolol maleate 0.5% combination eye drops improved adherence and helped maintain IOP.

UI  - 22000272
TI  - The influence of health literacy level on an educational intervention to improve glaucoma medication adherence.
AB  - Providers should consider health literacy skills when engaging in glaucoma education.

UI  - 21995983
TI  - Long term effects on the lowering of intraocular pressure: selective laser or argon laser trabeculoplasty?
AB  - The IOP-lowering effect of SLT and ALT was similar over 5 years in this group of patients with open-angle glaucoma on MTMT.

UI  - 21995758
TI  - Effect on anterior chamber bevacizumab injection combined with seton implantation in treatment of rubeosis iridis in neovascular glaucoma.
AB  - Significant reduction of NV was observed during the first week. Minimal increasement was seen in third month, significant regression effect persisted for 6 months. BIPC inhibited the peroperative risk of anterior segment bleeding, increased the surgical comfort and prevented the failure of filtration procedure by inhibiting reproliferation.

UI  - 21987579
TI  - Cataract surgery after trabeculectomy: the effect on trabeculectomy function.
AB  - Cataract surgery after trabeculectomy increases the risk of trabeculectomy failure, and this risk is increased if the time between trabeculectomy and cataract surgery is shorter.

UI  - 21986850
TI  - Compliance and knowledge about glaucoma in patients at tertiary glaucoma units.
AB  - To document the rate of self-reported compliance and glaucoma-related knowledge in Swiss patients and to identify risk factors for their poor compliance. This was an observational study, including a total of 200 consecutive patients already under glaucoma medication in two Swiss tertiary glaucoma clinics (Geneva and Bern). Personal characteristics, presence of systemic disease, compliance with glaucoma medication, attitude to the ophthalmologist, and glaucoma-related attitudes were ascertained by means of a predetermined questionnaire with 40 questions. Patients were subsequently assessed for the ability to correctly instil placebo eye drops. Non-compliance with glaucoma medication was defined as omitting more than two doses a week as reported by the patient. Logistic regression was used to evaluate how patient characteristics and knowledge about the disease were related to compliance. Overall, 81% (n=162) of patients reported to be compliant. Forgetfulness was the most frequently cited reason for non-compliance with dosing regimen (63%). Although 90.5% (n=181) of patients believed glaucoma medication to be efficient, only 28% (n=56) could correctly define glaucoma. Factors positively associated with compliance were 'knowledge of glaucoma' [adjusted odds ratio (OR) 4.77 (95% CI 1.36-16.70)] and 'getting help for administration of drops' [OR 2.95 (1.25-6.94)]. These findings indicate that despite the comparatively high compliance rate among glaucoma patients, knowledge of glaucoma remains poor in long-term glaucoma sufferers. Improving knowledge about the disease is important since it is positively associated with compliance in our study.

UI  - 21986568
TI  - African descent and glaucoma evaluation study: asymmetry of structural measures in normal participants.
AB  - The effect of race was no longer significant after adjustment for mean disc area and disc area asymmetry. Individuals with asymmetries with magnitudes greater than those of the normal ranges could be considered as suspicious for glaucoma.

UI  - 21986567
TI  - Linear discriminant functions to improve the glaucoma probability score analysis to detect glaucomatous optic nerve heads: a multicenter study.
AB  - When the so-called GPS parameters were used in an LDF formula, its diagnostic capacity slightly improved; however, the diagnostic performances of the GPS LDF, which used sectorial rim area parameters as well, were better.

UI  - 21983891
TI  - Dynamic contour tonometry and goldman applanation tonometry: correlation with intracameral assessment of intraocular pressure.
AB  - 

UI  - 21982106
TI  - Subconjunctival bevacizumab versus mitomycin C adjunctive to trabeculectomy.
AB  - Adjunctive subconjunctival bevacizumab with trabeculectomy is effective in controlling the IOP profile; however, its effect is less prominent than that of MMC.

UI  - 21980002
TI  - Relationships between visual field sensitivity and spectral absorption properties of the neuroretinal rim in glaucoma by multispectral imaging.
AB  - Residual NRR DLA is related to VF sensitivity in POAG. Multispectral imaging may provide clinically important information for the assessment and management of POAG.

UI  - 21980001
TI  - Comparative human aqueous dynamics study between black and white subjects with glaucoma.
AB  - The aqueous humor dynamics of black African and white Caucasian patients with POAG or OHT have no significant differences. However, the significantly thinner corneas of the black patients may be masking potential differences in outflow facility and IOP measurements between the racial groups.

UI  - 21960068
TI  - Twenty-four hour efficacy with the dorzolamide/timolol-fixed combination compared with the brimonidine/timolol-fixed combination in primary open-angle glaucoma.
AB  - Both the fixed combinations significantly reduce 24-hour IOP in POAG. DTFC provided significantly better 24-hour efficacy.

UI  - 21948551
TI  - Miniaturized high-intensity focused ultrasound device in patients with glaucoma: a clinical pilot study.
AB  - Ultrasonic circular cyclocoagulation using high-intensity focused ultrasound delivered by a circular miniaturized device containing six piezoceramic transducers seems to be an effective and well-tolerated method to reduce intraocular pressure in patients with refractory glaucoma.

UI  - 21946541
TI  - Morning dosing of once-daily glaucoma medication is more convenient and may lead to greater adherence than evening dosing.
AB  - Early adherence to treatment with a prostaglandin analogue is good, but patients prefer morning administration to evening administration. This may lead to greater adherence with morning administration, particularly among men. Adherence decreases from the first to second month after initiation of treatment. IOP response to this treatment is not significantly affected by morning versus evening administration.

UI  - 21921953
TI  - Biodegradable collagen matrix implant vs mitomycin-C as an adjuvant in trabeculectomy: a 24-month, randomized clinical trial.
AB  - Our results suggest that OLO implant could be a new, safe, and effective alternative to MMC, with similar long-term success rate.

UI  - 21917940
TI  - Central corneal thickness and glaucoma in East Asian people.
AB  - The authors found no evidence to support the previous observation that thinner corneas may be independently associated with POAG or PACG. Age and IOP are significantly associated with CCT, and this should be taken into account by future studies investigating CCT as an independent risk factor for glaucoma diagnosis.

UI  - 21917932
TI  - Macular ganglion cell-inner plexiform layer: automated detection and thickness reproducibility with spectral domain-optical coherence tomography in glaucoma.
AB  - Segmentation and measurement of GCIPL thickness were successful in 50 of 51 subjects. All ICCs ranged between 0.94 and 0.98, but ICCs for average and superior GCIPL parameters (0.97-0.98) were slightly higher than for inferior GCIPL parameters (0.94-0.97). All COVs were <5%, with 1.8% for average GCIPL and COVs for superior GCIPL parameters (2.2%-3.0%) slightly lower than those for inferior GCIPL parameters (2.5%-3.6%). The TRTSD was lowest for average GCIPL (1.16 m) and varied from 1.43 to 2.15 m for sectoral GCIPL CONCLUSIONS: The Cirrus HD-OCT GCA algorithm can successfully segment macular GCIPL and measure GCIPL thickness with excellent intervisit reproducibility. Longitudinal monitoring of GCIPL thickness may be possible with Cirrus HD-OCT for assessing glaucoma progression.

UI  - 21906840
TI  - [Survey of medical treatment in primary open-angle glaucoma].
AB  - Compliance is a dynamic variable which ophthalmologists need to evaluate throughout the follow-up of POAG patients, in order to reduce the prevalence of glaucoma blindness in Bnin.

UI  - 21906813
TI  - The Ahmed Versus Baerveldt study: design, baseline patient characteristics, and intraoperative complications.
AB  - Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.

UI  - 21900227
TI  - Variation in optical coherence tomography signal quality as an indicator of retinal nerve fibre layer segmentation error.
AB  - When combined with a signal quality parameter, the variation of signal quality between A-scans provides significant information about the quality of an OCT scan and can be used as a predictor of segmentation error.

UI  - 21899244
TI  - Corneal endothelial cell changes after Ahmed valve and Molteno glaucoma implants.
AB  - Twenty-four months after Ahmed valve or Molteno implant, statistically significant quantitative (cell density) and minor qualitative (cell area) changes in central CEC were observed. Both groups appeared to have similar CEC damage.

UI  - 21893261
TI  - [The influence of the Travalert() dosing aid on medical treatment compliance and the quality of life of glaucoma patients].
AB  - Compliance is very important in the treatment of glaucoma, and our study provides objective data through the use of Travalert dosing aid with relative compliances of 70%. Patients with combined therapies have lower compliance than those on monotherapy.

UI  - 21889801
TI  - The Ahmed Versus Baerveldt study: one-year treatment outcomes.
AB  - Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.

UI  - 21883009
TI  - Plasma citrate levels as a potential biomarker for glaucoma.
AB  - In this masked study, plasma citrate levels were significantly decreased in Caucasian patients with glaucoma giving the possibility to use them eventually as a biomarker. The kidney function was normal in both groups, leaving the etiology of this hypocitraemia yet unexplained.

UI  - 21873661
TI  - A population-based assessment of 24-hour intraocular pressure among subjects with primary open-angle glaucoma: the handan eye study.
AB  - About 80% of Chinese persons with POAG identified in a population-based study had maximum IOPs of 21 mm Hg or less over a 24-hour period. Twenty-four-hour IOP was similar between glaucomatous and contralateral nonglaucomatous eyes suggesting that factors other than IOP may play a role in the development of glaucomatous optic neuropathy in these eyes.

UI  - 21860572
TI  - Laser peripheral iridotomy with iridoplasty in primary angle closure suspect: anterior chamber analysis by pentacam.
AB  - Compared with conventional LPI, our study showed that LPI plus iridoplasty improved the mid-to-peripheral ACD increase. This procedure may have a role as an adjunct for reducing angle closure by simultaneously eliminating pupillary and non-pupillary block components.

UI  - 21858678
TI  - Randomized crossover study of latanoprost and travoprost in eyes with open-angle glaucoma.
AB  - Travoprost has similar effect as latanoprost in reducing the IOP in glaucoma patients with relatively low IOPs. The use of prostaglandin analogs can decrease the CCT, and this change should be considered when the IOPs obtained by GAT are analyzed.

UI  - 21851642
TI  - Comparative efficacy and safety of the fixed versus unfixed combination of latanoprost and timolol in Chinese patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
AB  - A single evening dose of LTFC was at least as effective as the unfixed combination of latanoprost in the PM and timolol in the AM in reducing IOP in Chinese subjects with POAG or OH whose IOP was insufficiently reduced with -blocker monotherapy or -blocker-based dual therapy. LTFC is an effective and well tolerated once-daily treatment for POAG and OH.

UI  - 21851167
TI  - A phase 2, randomized, dose-response trial of taprenepag isopropyl (PF-04217329) versus latanoprost 0.005% in open-angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension.
AB  - Taprenepag isopropyl significantly reduces IOP in POAG and ocular hypertension. Taprenepag isopropyl monotherapy is comparable to latanoprost 0.005% in reducing IOP. As demonstrated in this report, the activity of taprenepag isopropyl is additive to that of latanoprost 0.005%. Further studies are required to determine whether it shows similar additivity when administered with other ocular antihypertensive medications.

UI  - 21843876
TI  - Effects of argon laser trabeculoplasty in the Early Manifest Glaucoma Trial.
AB  - In this cohort, which included many patients with low IOP levels, IOP before ALT markedly influenced the IOP reduction induced by ALT, seen as a much larger decrease in eyes with higher IOP before ALT. The treating surgeon also had a significant impact on ALT outcome.

UI  - 21842435
TI  - A new rebound tonometer for home monitoring of intraocular pressure.
AB  - Measurements obtained with the RTONE, either by an ophthalmologist or by the patient, showed an excellent correlation with those provided by applanation tonometry. RTONE generally tends to overestimate IOP compared to GAT readings and displays a dependence on CCT. This study was registered with the DRKS (German Clinical Trials Register; www.germanctr.de ; DRKS00000478).

UI  - 21838823
TI  - Insertion of laryngeal mask airway does not increase the intraocular pressure in children with glaucoma.
AB  - Insertion of LMA in glaucomatous children is not associated with an increased IOP response or cardiovascular changes.

UI  - 21830944
TI  - Palmitoylethanolamide effects on intraocular pressure after Nd:YAG laser iridotomy: an experimental clinical study.
AB  - PEA can counteract the increase of IOP that occurs after iridotomy. It is likely that PEA controls the inflammatory process after iridotomy.

UI  - 21830452
TI  - Safety and efficacy of monotherapy change to fixed combination (travoprost 0.004%/timolol 0.5%) in 6 months follow up period.
AB  - Changing patients from prior monotherapy to TTFC can provide on average a further reduction in IOP, while demonstrating a favorable safety profile.

UI  - 21828157
TI  - Choroidal blood flow response to isometric exercise in glaucoma patients and patients with ocular hypertension.
AB  - Baseline ChBF was lower in both the POAG and the OHT patients, compared with that in the controls. The stronger increase in ChBF in POAG patients in the face of an exercise-induced blood pressure increase indicates less active regulatory capacity in glaucoma patients.

UI  - 21828156
TI  - The effects of Mozart's music on the performance of glaucoma patients on automated perimetry.
AB  - The rate of fixation losses, false positives, and false negatives did not improve in subjects with glaucoma after they listened to Mozart's music. The Mozart effect did not enhance the reliability of the visual field test to a statistically significant degree (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT01027039).

UI  - 21794845
TI  - Ocular hypotensive effect of the Rho kinase inhibitor AR-12286 in patients with glaucoma and ocular hypertension.
AB  - AR-12286 was well tolerated and provided clinically and statistically significant ocular hypotensive efficacy in patients with ocular hypertension and glaucoma.

UI  - 21794048
TI  - Differences in iris structural measurements among American Caucasians, American Chinese and mainland Chinese.
AB  - In dark conditions, Chinese have thicker irides and greater iris area than Caucasians independent of pupil size. Among Chinese, more convex irides in women may account for the higher rate of narrow angles identified in this segment of the Chinese population.

UI  - 21790326
TI  - Long-term outcomes of prostaglandin analog versus timolol maleate in ocular hypertensive or primary open-angle glaucoma patients in Europe.
AB  - Patients originally on timolol monotherapy have a lower cost of care over 5 years than those started on a PTG. However, timolol patients during follow-up may demonstrate a higher intraocular pressure, more progression, more medication changes, and lower persistency of the original monotherapy.

UI  - 21789924
TI  - [Adjunctive therapy with brinzolamide in patients on travoprost treatment].
AB  - Brinzolamide 1% (b.i.d) used adjunctively with travoprost 0.004% (q.d.) lowers intraocular pressure significantly compared to travoprost alone. Both drugs were well tolerated and safe in the studied patients.

UI  - 21788077
TI  - Latanoprost systemic exposure in pediatric and adult patients with glaucoma: a phase 1, open-label study.
AB  - Proprietary or commercial disclosures may be found after the references.

UI  - 21784212
TI  - Combining rim area to disc area asymmetry ratio and Moorfields regression analysis of confocal scanning laser ophthalmoscopy for glaucoma screening.
AB  - When using HRT in populations at high risk for glaucoma, RADAAR had a higher specificity than MRA in identifying glaucoma. When patients were classified as borderline on MRA, combining RADAAR values decreased the number of false-positives as well, and may be recommended when high specificity is required.

UI  - 21778269
TI  - Heterochromatic flicker electroretinograms reflecting luminance and cone opponent activity in glaucoma patients.
AB  - The responses displayed phase differences but not amplitude differences in perimetric glaucoma patients at both 36 and 12 Hz, suggesting that both magnocellular and parvocellular pathways are affected. Preperimetric glaucoma patients also showed phase differences. The response phase may be sensitive to early dysfunction of the inner retina. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00494923).

UI  - 21773673
TI  - Travoprost 0.004%/timolol 0.5% fixed combination in patients transitioning from fixed or unfixed bimatoprost 0.03%/timolol 0.5%.
AB  - Travoprost 0.004%/timolol 0.5% fixed combination produced a significant reduction in IOP, with favorable safety and tolerability profiles. Both patients and investigators strongly preferred TTFC to prior bimatoprost 0.03%/timolol 0.5% therapy.

UI  - 21770805
TI  - Morphologic assessment for glaucoma in the Multicenter Uveitis Steroid Treatment (MUST) trial.
AB  - Morphologic assessment of cup to disc ratio is an important outcome and safety measure for determining glaucomatous damage in clinical trials. Masked RC measurements are more likely to be accurate than biomicroscopic grading in identifying meaningful anatomical change associated with glaucoma.

UI  - 21757515
TI  - Assessment of lateral geniculate nucleus atrophy with 3T MR imaging and correlation with clinical stage of glaucoma.
AB  - MR imaging measurements of LGN height and volume are diminished in patients with glaucoma, with the extent of atrophy correlating to clinical stage, suggesting a novel imaging marker of disease severity.

UI  - 21749595
TI  - Telemedicine model to prevent blindness from familial glaucoma.
AB  - A telemedicine model is an efficient method for screening, grading and notifying participants of examination results. Nurses can be adequately trained to undertake the initial screening examinations, with grading of the results performed offsite by a suitably qualified ophthalmologist. Targeted screening for glaucoma increases the yield of identifying individuals with undiagnosed glaucoma or those at greatest risk. Cost efficiencies for this model of glaucoma screening should be further explored and implemented to prevent blindness from familial glaucoma.

UI  - 21739694
TI  - [Impact of acupuncture on 24 h intraocular pressure of glaucoma].
AB  - For the patients with unstable control of IOP, acupuncture can not only reduce IOP, but also stabilize 24 h diurnal IOP variation and benefit the visual function of patients with glaucoma.

UI  - 21735753
TI  - [Double-masked, phase III comparative study of the combination ophthalmic solution of the 1% dorzolamide hydrochloride/0.5% timolol maleate (MK-0507A) in patients with glaucoma and ocular hypertension].
AB  - MK-0507A has a significantly superior IOP-lowering effect relative to timolol. MK-0507A also showed a non-inferior IOP-lowering effect relative to the concomitant therapy. MK-0507A was safe compared to both timolol and concomitant therapy.

UI  - 21734594
TI  - Does an association exist between pseudoexfoliation syndrome and chronic kidney disease?
AB  - Compared with age-matched patients with POAG and nonglaucoma controls, PEX syndrome was not found to be associated with an increased prevalence of CKD.

UI  - 21732110
TI  - Three-year canaloplasty outcomes for the treatment of open-angle glaucoma: European study results.
AB  - Canaloplasty demonstrated significant and sustained IOP reductions accompanied by an excellent short- and long-term safety profile in adult patients with open-angle glaucoma.

UI  - 21727997
TI  - Improved prediction of fellow-eye response in one-eye trials using multiple intraocular pressure measurements.
AB  - Using multiple post-treatment IOP measurements may improve the prediction of a fellow eye's response to glaucoma medication in one-eye trials.

UI  - 21725844
TI  - Preservative-free tafluprost 0.0015% in the treatment of patients with glaucoma and ocular hypertension.
AB  - Although this study was limited by its observational design the results demonstrate that preservative-free tafluprost 0.0015% was effective, generally well tolerated, and safe in a broad and heterogeneous patient population.

UI  - 21724262
TI  - Monocular trial of intraocular pressure-lowering medication: a prospective study.
AB  - The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.

UI  - 21717884
TI  - 24-Hour intraocular pressure control between travoprost/timolol fixed combination, latanoprost/ timolol fixed combination and standard timolol in primary open angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension.
AB  - A fixed combination of Travoprost 0.004% and Timolol 0.5% is as effective as a fixed combination of Latanoprost 0.005% and Timolol 0.5% and are better than Timolol 0.5% in 24-hour IOP control.

UI  - 21716127
TI  - Effect of beclomethasone nasal spray on intraocular pressure in ocular hypertension or controlled glaucoma.
AB  - Patients with ocular hypertension and primary open-angle glaucoma showed no evidence of IOP elevation after 6 weeks use of beclomethasone nasal spray.

UI  - 21705689
TI  - Ocular hypotensive effect of oral palmitoyl-ethanolamide: a clinical trial.
AB  - Systemic administration of PEA reduces IOP in patients with glaucoma and ocular hypertension. PEA could be a valuable tool for the treatment of glaucoma (http://www.umin.ac.jp/ctr/index/htm number, UMIN000002833).

UI  - 21705084
TI  - Adjusting intraocular pressure for central corneal thickness does not improve prediction models for primary open-angle glaucoma.
AB  - The calculation of individual risk for developing POAG in ocular hypertensive individuals is simpler and equally accurate using IOP and CCT as measured, rather than applying an adjustment formula to correct IOP for CCT.

UI  - 21701528
TI  - Travoprost 0.004%/timolol 0.5%-fixed combination with and without benzalkonium chloride: a prospective, randomized, doubled-masked comparison of safety and efficacy.
AB  - Travoprost/timolol BAK-free demonstrated equivalence to travoprost/timolol preserved with BAK in efficacy. No clinically relevant differences in the safety profiles of travoprost/timolol BAK-free and travoprost/timolol preserved with BAK were identified.

UI  - 21693614
TI  - Combining structural and functional measurements to improve detection of glaucoma progression using Bayesian hierarchical models.
AB  - A bayesian hierarchical modeling approach for combining functional and structural tests performed significantly better than the OLS method for detection of glaucoma progression. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00221897.).

UI  - 21680022
TI  - Comparison of latanoprost and timolol in pediatric glaucoma: a phase 3, 12-week, randomized, double-masked multicenter study.
AB  - Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.

UI  - 21679090
TI  - From dorzolamide 2%/timolol 0.5% to brinzolamide 1%/timolol 0.5% fixed combination: a 6-month, multicenter, open-label tolerability switch study.
AB  - Brinzolamide/timolol FC is associated with reduced topical discomfort and improved signs of ocular surface disease. The good tolerability and comfort of this FC might contribute to good patient adherence.

UI  - 21668980
TI  - A multicenter, retrospective chart review study comparing index therapy change rates in open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension patients newly treated with latanoprost or travoprost-Z monotherapy.
AB  - In this "real world" study of changes in therapy in patients prescribed initial monotherapy with latanoprost with BAK or travoprost-Z with SofZia, medication changes were common in both treatment groups but statistically significantly more frequent with travoprost-Z.

UI  - 21631670
TI  - Comparison of standard trabeculectomy versus microtrabeculectomy as a surgical treatment for glaucoma: a randomized clinical trial.
AB  - Both trabeculectomy techniques achieved good intraocular pressure reduction and had similar complication rates. Scleral flap size had no significant effect on medium-term intraocular pressure control and complication profile.

UI  - 21605352
TI  - The effectiveness of early lens extraction with intraocular lens implantation for the treatment of primary angle-closure glaucoma (EAGLE): study protocol for a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - ISRCTN44464607.

UI  - 21600658
TI  - Intraocular pressure control and long-term visual field loss in the Collaborative Initial Glaucoma Treatment Study.
AB  - These results support considering more aggressive treatment when undue elevation or variation in IOP measures is observed.

UI  - 21587324
TI  - A comparative study of combined small-incision cataract surgery with sutureless trabeculectomy versus trabeculectomy using W-shaped incision.
AB  - Combined SICS with trabeculectomy using W-shaped incision offers better prospective in terms of glaucoma control and visual performance than sutureless combined surgery.

UI  - 21572334
TI  - Argon versus selective laser trabeculoplasty in younger patients: 2-year results.
AB  - In younger patients, both ALT and SLT have a significant ocular hypotensive effect 2 years after treatment, with no differences in outcome identified between the laser modalities.

UI  - 21568077
TI  - [Prevention of intraocular pressure elevation after argon laser trabeculoplasty in primary open angle glaucoma].
AB  - A single preoperative drop of brimonidine 0.2% had similar efficacy and safety as apraclonidine 0.5% in preventing transient IOP elevations after ALT.

UI  - 21543993
TI  - Safety and efficacy of using off-label bevacizumab versus mitomycin C to prevent bleb failure in a single-site phacotrabeculectomy by a randomized controlled clinical trial.
AB  - In this pilot study with a small number of subjects, short-term outcomes suggest that subconjunctival bevacizumab is equally effective in reducing intraocular pressure with a better safety profile compared with MMC in the dosing schedule studied. However, bevacizumab soaked in a sponge appears to have no advantages over MMC. Subconjunctival bevacizumab may be a useful agent for improving success and for limiting scar tissue after phacotrabeculectomy.

UI  - 21543992
TI  - Selective laser trabeculoplasty versus medical therapy as initial treatment of glaucoma: a prospective, randomized trial.
AB  - IOP reduction was similar in both arms after 9 to 12-months follow-up. More treatment steps were necessary to maintain target IOP in the medication group, although there was not a statistically significant difference between groups. These results support the option of SLT as a safe and effective initial therapy in open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension.

UI  - 21539106
TI  - [Long-term results of secondary glaucoma surgical treatment].
AB  - The efficacy of combined hypotensive surgery in patients with secondary glaucoma was studied. The main group included 30 patients who underwent deep sclerectomy with angle dilatation, 50 patients after sinusotrabeculectomy served as controls. The results were evaluated in 3 years. Visual acuity reduced by 0.04 compared with early postoperative results in the main group and by 0.1 in control group. In the main group the summarized visual field reduced by 14-15 degrees, in control group--30.5 degrees. IOP rise in the main group was 2 mm Hg, while in control--6.0 mm Hg. Deep sclerectomy with angle dilatation in secondary glaucoma compared with conventional surgery showed to be more effective in terms of stable hypotensive effect, more natural long-term hydrodynamics and prolonged visual functions preservation.

UI  - 21536340
TI  - [Enhanced depth imaging of the choroid in open-angle glaucoma: a preliminary study].
AB  - Further studies are required to evaluate the possible relationship between CT and peripapillary atrophy and the link with the evolutive stage of the glaucomatous neuropathy.

UI  - 21515562
TI  - Randomised trial of sequential pretreatment for Nd:YAG laser iridotomy in dark irides.
AB  - This study provides evidence that iridotomy with pretreatment using a continuous-wave Nd:YAG laser is safer and more effective than pulsed Nd:YAG-only laser iridotomy for dark irides and should be considered as the preferred technique.

UI  - 21515561
TI  - Impact of eyelid closure on the intraocular pressure lowering effect of prostaglandins: a randomised controlled trial.
AB  - ELC did not provide significant additional IOP reduction compared with no ELC in patients using chronic prostaglandin monotherapy. Trial Registration http://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT0083283.

UI  - 21510850
TI  - Developing the clinical components of a complex intervention for a glaucoma screening trial: a mixed methods study.
AB  - Interventions for screening for open angle glaucoma that would be feasible from a service delivery perspective were identified. Integration within an economic modelling framework explicitly highlighted the trade-off between cost-effectiveness, feasibility and equity. This study exemplifies the MRC recommendation to integrate qualitative and quantitative methods in developing complex interventions. The next step in the development pathway should encompass the views of service users.

UI  - 21508110
TI  - Association between SRBD1 and ELOVL5 gene polymorphisms and primary open-angle glaucoma.
AB  - SRBD1 gene polymorphism is associated with the development of HTG as well as NTG, including late-onset NTG. Typical POAG associated with ELOVL5 gene polymorphism may have a late rather than an early onset.

UI  - 21499770
TI  - Timolol versus brinzolamide added to travoprost in glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
AB  - Both adjunctive combinations moderately reduced IOP in patients inadequately controlled with travoprost monotherapy, with timolol being slightly stronger 8 hours after instillation. Adjunctive treatment with brinzolamide and travoprost may be an alternative for patients not tolerant or not responsive to treatment with timolol and travoprost.

UI  - 21499083
TI  - The comparison of the effects of latanoprost, travoprost, and bimatoprost on central corneal thickness.
AB  - Topical therapy with prostaglandin analogues is associated with CCT reduction. Latanoprost, travoprost, and bimatoprost have a similar effect on CCT.

UI  - 21467178
TI  - A method to measure and predict rates of regional visual field decay in glaucoma.
AB  - This method isolates faster and slower components of VF decay in glaucoma, can identify patients who are fast progressors, and can predict patterns of future VF loss with appropriate confidence intervals. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00000148.).

UI  - 21440942
TI  - SCORE Study report #11: incidences of neovascular events in eyes with retinal vein occlusion.
AB  - In the SCORE Study, triamcinolone treatment was not associated with lower incidences of neovascular events or nonperfusion status compared with observation or grid photocoagulation. Cumulative 36-month incidences for most neovascular events were significantly higher for nonperfused than perfused eyes. Greater baseline disc areas of nonperfusion increased the risk of neovascularization in BRVO but not CRVO eyes, possibly owing to obscuration of retinal capillary details caused by dense hemorrhage at baseline for CRVO eyes. Increased risk of neovascularization was noted below the historical threshold of 10 disc areas of nonperfusion for retinal vein occlusion.

UI  - 21426839
TI  - [Comparison of intraocular pressure reducing effects of three prostaglandin eyedrops in open-angle glaucoma].
AB  - This study demonstrated that latanoprost, travoprost and bimatoprost are all effective in reducing IOP over the 24-hour curve in primary open-angle glaucoma. On the basis of our data, there was no statistically significant difference in the IOP reduction between these three drugs.

UI  - 21423036
TI  - Silicone Ahmed glaucoma valve with and without intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide for neovascular glaucoma: randomized clinical trial.
AB  - Intravitreal injection of triamcinolone acetonide in neovascular glaucoma did not affect the intermediate-term success of the silicone Ahmed valve nor reduce the incidence of complications. The mean IOP spike in the first month was lower in the triamcinolone group.

UI  - 21420593
TI  - Canaloplasty: Three-year results of circumferential viscodilation and tensioning of Schlemm canal using a microcatheter to treat open-angle glaucoma.
AB  - No author has a financial or proprietary interest in any material or method mentioned. Additional disclosures are found in the footnotes.

UI  - 21416707
TI  - [Clinical trial of the generic product UNILAT following its efficiency and safety in glaucoma and intraocular hypertension].
AB  - The authors introduce UNILAT, a new generic product from UNIMED PHARMA Ltd., a Slovak pharmaceutical company. Within the Phase III. of clinical trial they evaluate UNILATes efficacy and safety in the treatment of glaucoma and intraocular hypertension. The clinical study design was performed as an open comparative multicenter trial. Its goal was to compare the UNILAT generic product (latanoprost 50 microg/ml, eye drops solution, Unimed Pharma) with XALATAN original product (latanoprost 50 microg/ml, eye drops solution, Pfizer) and to prove that UNILAT is as effective and safe as original product. The study was performed on 77 subjects in seven private ophthalmic outpatient departments in Slovakia during the period from February 5, 2008 till July 24, 2008. The primary endpoint specified to prove UNILAT's efficacy was the average decrease of IOP measured between the first and last visit. The secondary endpoint was proportion of patients with measured IOP less than 21 mmHg at the end of the clinical trial. The safety of the generic product was based on the frequency of adverse reactions in subjects included in the study. Results of clinical study have confirmed UNILAT's therapeutical indications and demonstrated that it is non-inferior to the original product concerning efficacy and safety in the treatment of glaucoma and ocular hypertension.

UI  - 21410107
TI  - Adjunctive bevacizumab in patients undergoing Ahmed valve implantation: a pilot study.
AB  - Bevacizumab was associated with a less aggressive hypertensive period as measured by post-massage IOP measurements, postoperative glaucoma medications, and cross-sectional bleb area by ultrasound. Further prospective studies are needed to better understand the utility of SCB at the time of AVI surgery.

UI  - 21401541
TI  - Reduction of intra-ocular pressure by ocular compression before combined peri- and retrobulbar block.
AB  - The intra-ocular pressure immediately before glaucoma surgery can be raised. We wished to investigate if ocular compression for 20 min before a combined peri- and retrobulbar injection would result in a lower pressure after the block. Sixty consecutive patients scheduled for filtration surgery were randomly assigned to receive ocular compression using an external pressure device for 20 min before combined peri- and retrobulbar injection (intervention group, who also received compression after the block) or to a control group in whom pressure was applied only after the block was completed. The intra-ocular pressure was measured at baseline, after the 20-min pre-injection compression (intervention group), after injecting the block, and after the 10-min post-injection compression. The pressure did not differ between groups at baseline, after the block or after the post-injection compression. In the intervention group, the compression before the block reduced the median (IQR [range]) pressure from 21.0 (17.0-25.0 [12.0-40.0]) mmHg to 16.8 (12.5-22.5 [7.5-33.5]) mmHg (p<0.001). We conclude that external ocular compression reduces the intra-ocular pressure, but applying an additional compression for 20 min before injecting the block is not beneficial.

UI  - 21398413
TI  - Optic nerve sheath diameter in normal-tension glaucoma patients.
AB  - An increased ONSD is generally associated with increased intracranial pressure; however, ONSDs in a group of NTG patients also were significantly increased compared with controls. ON sheath compartmentation and thinning of the ON sheath are two possible explanations for an increase in the ONSD in patients with NTG.

UI  - 21396622
TI  - Success rates of trabeculotomy for steroid-induced glaucoma: a comparative, multicenter, retrospective cohort study.
AB  - Trabeculotomy is effective for controlling intraocular pressure <21 mm Hg in steroid-induced glaucoma eyes.

UI  - 21385109
TI  - Signs and symptoms of ocular surface status in glaucoma patients switched from timolol 0.5% to brinzolamide 1%/timolol 0.5% fixed combination: a 6-month efficacy and tolerability, multicenter, open-label prospective study.
AB  - Brinz/Tim FC is effective and well tolerated. In this study, patients switched to Brinz/Tim FC obtained further reduction in IOP with no effects on ocular surface status and improved quality of life perception: a better quality of life could determine a better adherence to prescribed therapy.

UI  - 21361083
TI  - Efficacy and safety of topical travoprost with sofzia preservative for Japanese glaucoma patients.
AB  - The purpose of this study is to evaluate the intraocular pressure (IOP) -lowering effect and safety of topical travoprost with sofzia and without benzalkonium chloride on Japanese patients with glaucoma. Topical travoprost (0.04%) was used on 39 glaucoma patients with no prior use of topical prostaglandin F2alpha analogues (Beginning group). The IOP, number of conjunctival follicules, degrees of conjunctival hyperemia, and degrees of superficial punctate keratitis (SPK, AD-classification) were determined at the beginning of the treatment and after 1 month and 3 months. 37 other patients who were using 0.005% topical latanoprost were switched to 0.04% topical travoprost and analyzed in the same way (Switched group). For the Beginning group, the IOP was significantly decreased after 3 months (p < 0.0001). The conjunctival follicule score was decreased significantly (p = 0.033). Both the SPK area score and density score for the cases with SPK at the baseline decreased significantly (p = 0.034 and p = 0.024). In the switched group, the IOP was not changed significantly at 3 months after the switch (p = 0.118). Both the conjunctival follicule and hyperemia score were significantly decreased at 3 month (p = 0.0074 and p = 0.0047). The SPK area score for the cases with SPK at the time of switch decreased significantly (p = 0.013). Travoprost with sofzia preservative had an equal effect in reducing the IOP as latanoprost. It had low toxicity on the ocular surface of Japanese glaucoma patients.

UI  - 21357394
TI  - Appositional closure identified by ultrasound biomicroscopy in population-based primary angle-closure glaucoma suspects: the Liwan eye study.
AB  - More ITC is identified on UBM imaging than by gonioscopy. Careful consideration should be given to the assessment modality regarded as the reference standard in defining anatomic risk factors for glaucomatous visual loss and the need for treatment.

UI  - 21336155
TI  - A 12-week, double-masked, parallel-group study of the safety and efficacy of travoprost 0.004% compared with pilocarpine 1% in Chinese patients with primary angle-closure and primary angle-closure glaucoma.
AB  - Travoprost 0.004% once daily provides effective IOP-lowering efficacy with significantly greater IOP reduction from baseline when compared with pilocarpine 1% 4 times daily at 4 PM over the 12-week period. Travoprost 0.004% once daily is safe and well tolerated in PAC or PACG patients.

UI  - 21333870
TI  - Repeatability and reproducibility of anterior chamber volume measurements using 3-dimensional corneal and anterior segment optical coherence tomography.
AB  - The CAS-OCT method allowed noninvasive measurement of the entire ACV with sufficient repeatability and reproducibility. The 8.0 mm ACV measurements with CAS-OCT and Scheimpflug imaging were comparable.

UI  - 21320958
TI  - Trabeculectomy with mitomycin for open-angle glaucoma in phakic vs pseudophakic eyes after phacoemulsification.
AB  - Previous phacoemulsification is a prognostic factor for surgical failure of trabeculectomy with mitomycin for open-angle glaucoma.

UI  - 21298630
TI  - Diode laser cyclophotocoagulation versus cyclocryotherapy in the treatment of refractory glaucoma.
AB  - Both DCPC and CCT proved to be safe and effective IOP-lowering methods in patients with refractory glaucoma. Diode laser cyclophotocoagulation should be considered as the primary treatment option in refractory glaucoma using an individual treatment dosage.

UI  - 21296214
TI  - [Handiness and acceptability of the new Abak bottle in chronically treated patients. A cross-sectional, retrospective and multicentre study].
AB  - The new Abak bottle had a greater acceptability compared to preserved multidose eyedrops or to single-doses. Its handiness and the absence of preservative which may improve local tolerance are in favor of a greater compliance in chronically treated patients.

UI  - 21278589
TI  - Long-term effect of BAK-free travoprost on ocular surface and intraocular pressure in glaucoma patients after transition from latanoprost.
AB  - Treatment for 12 months with BAK-free travoprost after BAK-preserved latanoprost resulted in fewer ocular surface complications, as indicated by the reduced prevalence of SPK and decreased hyperemia, and no clinically relevant changes in IOP. BAK-free travoprost may have beneficial effects on the ocular surface while showing IOP-lowering efficacy comparable with BAK-preserved eye drops.

UI  - 21245953
TI  - Association of genetic polymorphisms of eNOS with glaucoma.
AB  - The C-T haplotype established by rs3793342 and rs11771443 may be genetic marks of POAG in the Han Chinese population.

UI  - 21241468
TI  - ISRCTN12125882 - Influence of topical anti-VEGF (Ranibizumab) on the outcome of filtration surgery for glaucoma - Study Protocol.
AB  - Anti-VEGF-antibodies might be more effective in preventing scaring and might have fewer toxic side effects than the currently used anti-metabolites and may replace them in the long term.

UI  - 21223530
TI  - Intraocular pressure and ocular hemodynamics in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma treated with the combination of morning dosing of bimatoprost and dorzolamide hydrochloride.
AB  - Adjunctive dorzolamide therapy to morning-dosed bimatoprost 0.03% reduced diurnal IOP and vascular resistance in the ophthalmic artery but did not alter retinal circulation in this group of patients with POAG.

UI  - 21173710
TI  - CO2 laser-assisted sclerectomy surgery, part II: multicenter clinical preliminary study.
AB  - Short-term and intermediate results suggest that CLASS may become a simple, safe, and effective means of choice for the treatment of open-angle glaucoma.

UI  - 21173701
TI  - Survey of complementary and alternative medicine use in glaucoma patients.
AB  - Approximately 1 in 9 glaucoma patients use CAM for their disease. Many of these patients do not disclose the use of CAM to their ophthalmologist, but the vast majority report that they still take conventional glaucoma medications as prescribed.

UI  - 21149774
TI  - Longitudinal and cross-sectional analyses of visual field progression in participants of the Ocular Hypertension Treatment Study.
AB  - Despite considerable overall agreement, 40% to 50% of eyes identified as having progressed with either longitudinal or cross-sectional analyses were identified with only one of the analyses. Because diffuse change is part of early glaucomatous damage, pattern deviation analyses may underestimate progression in patients with ocular hypertension.

UI  - 21141322
TI  - Effectiveness of intra-operative and post-operative use of 5-fluorouracil in trabeculectomy--a randomized clinical trial.
AB  - The intra-operative and post-operative use of 5-FU in trabeculectomy is almost equally effective in terms of IOP control and bleb characteristics.

UI  - 21141077
TI  - [Long-acting carteolol hydrochloride 2% ophthalmic solution phase IV study--investigation of the effectiveness, safety and plasma concentration].
AB  - The IOP reduction effect of the LA group was the same as the CA group. This study suggests that long-acting treatment with alginic acid can be useful for reducing systemic side effects.

UI  - 21132129
TI  - Observational study of patients switched to the fixed travoprost 0.004%/timolol 0.5% combination in Croatia.
AB  - The purpose of this study was to assess both the benefits of a 3-month travoprost 0.004%/timolol 0.5%fixed combination (trav/tim) regimen in comparison with previous medications for the control of intraocular pressure (IOP) and the tolerability of these drug regimens in glaucoma patients. An observational, non-interventional, open-label study of 406 eyes with primary open angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension was thus undertaken. One drop of trav/tim fixed combination was administered in the evening for 3 months. Patients were divided into five groups according to previous drug regimens: timolol 0.5% monotherapy; betaxolol 0.5% monotherapy; latanoprost 0.005% monotherapy; travoprost 0.004% monotherapy; and dorzolamide 2%/timolol 0.5% fixed combination. Upon medication substitution, the trav/tim fixed combination provided better IOP control and tolerability in all five patient groups. At the 3-month follow up, the mean IOP changes from previous therapy were as follows: 5.2  2.7 mmHg (20.8% change) in timolol 0.5% group; 5.7  2.2 mmHg (22.5% change) in betaxolol 0.5% group; 3.8  2.6 mmHg (24.5% change) in latanoprost 0.005% group; 4.4  2.8 mmHg (20% change) in travoprost 0.004% group; and 3.4  4.1 mmHg (14.5% change) in dorzolamide 2%/timolol 0.5% fixed combination group. The difference between baseline and trav/tim combination patient satisfaction at the 3-month follow-up was significant. Thus, the trav/tim fixed combination provided better IOP control and tolerability than previous mono- or polytherapies.

UI  - 21131377
TI  - Agreement to detect glaucomatous visual field progression by using three different methods: a multicentre study.
AB  - Using any procedure for evaluating the progression of a series of VF, agreement between expert clinicians is moderate. Clinicians had higher agreement when GPA2 was used, followed by HFA OP and GPA printouts, but these differences were not significant.

UI  - 21126771
TI  - Optic disc evaluation in optic neuropathies: the optic disc assessment project.
AB  - Optic neuropathies can result in similar topographic changes at the optic disc, particularly in late-stage disease, making it difficult to differentiate ADOA and LHON from glaucoma based on disc assessment alone. Other clinical parameters such as acuity, color vision, history of visual loss, and family history are required to make an accurate diagnosis.

UI  - 21111399
TI  - Control of intraocular pressure and fluctuation with fixed-combination brimonidine-timolol versus brimonidine or timolol monotherapy.
AB  - Patients treated with fixed-combination brimonidine-timolol were more likely than patients treated with either brimonidine or timolol alone to achieve a combination of low mean IOP and low short-term (daily) or long-term (intervisit) IOP fluctuation.

UI  - 21106046
TI  - Adherence with brimonidine in patients with glaucoma aware and not aware of electronic monitoring.
AB  - The study findings suggest that adherence measurements are not significantly altered by open adherence monitoring, which may simplify future adherence studies. Adherence with brimonidine eye drops was insufficient for most patients. These results demonstrate the necessity to develop new strategies to improve compliance in glaucoma therapy.

UI  - 21099405
TI  - Retrospective review of graft dislocation rate associated with descemet stripping automated endothelial keratoplasty after primary failed penetrating keratoplasty.
AB  - The graft dislocation rate in DSAEK procedures after PKP is comparable to that after primary DSAEK cases. Donor grafts that are smaller than the host PKP and the presence of prior glaucoma drainage devices are risk factors for higher rates of graft dislocation.

UI  - 21083880
TI  - Cost-effectiveness of monitoring glaucoma patients in shared care: an economic evaluation alongside a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - We conclude that this GFU is cost-effective and deserves to be considered for implementation in other hospitals.

UI  - 21070547
TI  - Plasma and aqueous humour levels of ghrelin in open-angle glaucoma patients.
AB  - Aqueous humour levels of ghrelin were significantly lower in open-angle glaucoma patients, compared with controls. This difference may manifest a role of ghrelin in the disease process or a consequence of antiglaucoma treatment.

UI  - 21070546
TI  - Glaucomatous optic neuropathy evaluation project: a standardized internet system for assessing skills in optic disc examination.
AB  - This internet-based system is a readily accessible and standardized tool, for clinicians globally, that permits self-assessment and benchmarking of skills in optic disc examination.

UI  - 21067893
TI  - Anterior capsule relaxing incisions with neodymium:YAG laser for patients at high-risk for anterior capsule contraction.
AB  - No author has a financial or proprietary interest in any material or method mentioned.

UI  - 21058884
TI  - Intraocular pressure-lowering effect of auricular acupressure in patients with glaucoma: a prospective, single-blinded, randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Our data suggest that auricular acupressure can be used as a complementary treatment to ameliorate IOP and VA for patients with glaucoma.

UI  - 21048514
TI  - Efficacy and tolerability of topical 0.05% flunarizine in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension-a pilot study.
AB  - The absence of a statistically significant difference in IOP reduction between the 2 groups may be due to the small number of patients included. However, a single dose of 0.05% flunarizine significantly reduced IOP when compared with baseline values, whereas this was not observed with placebo.

UI  - 21048513
TI  - Endoscopic cyclophotocoagulation (ECP) in the management of uncontrolled glaucoma with prior aqueous tube shunt.
AB  - ECP seems to be a safe and effective treatment in patients with uncontrolled IOP with a prior aqueous tube shunt, and is a reasonable option in this group of refractory glaucoma patients.

UI  - 21048510
TI  - Prevalence and correlates of self-reported nonadherence with eye drop treatment: the Belgian Compliance Study in Ophthalmology (BCSO).
AB  - The prevalence of self-reported nonadherence was congruent with literature. The patients visiting their ophthalmologists at least every 3 months have a lower risk of nonadherence. Ophthalmologist report is an insensitive method for detecting nonadherence.

UI  - 21048508
TI  - Twenty-four-hour intraocular pressure control with latanoprost-timolol-fixed combination versus bimatoprost in patients who switched from timolol.
AB  - The LTFC and bimatoprost therapies were equally effective in maintaining IOP at lower levels during the 24-hour period in patients who switched from timolol therapy. Adverse events were more frequent with bimatoprost therapy.

UI  - 21048504
TI  - Intraocular pressure-lowering efficacy of brinzolamide when added to travoprost/timolol fixed combination as adjunctive therapy.
AB  - This study suggests that brinzolamide may be safely added to TTFC therapy to provide further significant reduction in IOP patients with ocular hypertensive or primary open-angle glaucoma.

UI  - 21035866
TI  - YAG laser peripheral iridotomy for the prevention of pigment dispersion glaucoma a prospective, randomized, controlled trial.
AB  - This study suggests that there was no benefit of Nd:YAG LPI in preventing progression from PDS with OHT to PG within 3 years of follow-up.

UI  - 21034177
TI  - Bimatoprost versus travoprost in an Egyptian population: a hospital-based prospective, randomized study.
AB  - Both drops lowered IOP effectively but bimatoprost showed a greater non-significant reductions in mean IOP from baseline.

UI  - 21029020
TI  - Hyperemia reduction after administration of a fixed combination of bimatoprost and timolol maleate to patients on prostaglandin or prostamide monotherapy.
AB  - A significant reduction in hyperemia was found after switching from monotherapy with prostaglandins or prostamide to a fixed combination of prostamide and a -blocker. IOP reduction was significant after the intervention in all 3 groups.

UI  - 20977366
TI  - Efficacy and tolerability of preservative-free eye drops containing a fixed combination of dorzolamide and timolol in glaucoma patients.
AB  - This observational study confirms the IOP lowering effect of preservative-free eye drops containing the fixed combination of dorzolamide/timolol in a large patient's population. The drug was well tolerated and improved the local tolerability in the vast majority of patients.

UI  - 20977071
TI  - Comparison of evening and morning dosing of travoprost 0.004%/timolol 0.5% fixed combination in 6 month period.
AB  - An open label, multi-center, 6 months observational study of new fixed combination (travoprost 0.004%/timolol 0.5%), in order to evaluate both efficacy (intraocular pressure lowering) and tolerability (patient and investigator satisfaction) of two dosing regimens--evening (PM) and morning (AM). After screening for enrollment, to 40 patients (79 eyes with primary open angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension), new fixed combination travoprost 0.004%/timolol 0.5% was prescribed once a day in the evening (PM). Patients were enrolled according to each investigator decision on indication for travoprost 0.004%/timolol 0.5% fixed combination once a day, without washout period after previous medication. Intraocular pressure was measured at 9 AM at all time control points: at baseline, after 1 month, after 3 months and after 6 month. After 1 month, screening for nonresponders (criteria: 20% intraocular pressure lowering) and subjects with major side effects was performed. At second control visit, after 3 months PM dosing, intraocular pressure was measured and patients were instructed to continue once a day the same medication, but in the morning (AM) for consequent 3 months. After 1 month, reduction in mean intraocular pressure value was 21.66%. At the visit after 3 month, the mean intraocular pressure was 15.67 +/- 2.17 mm Hg (reduction 21.14%). 3 month after dosing regimen changed to AM (6 month after beginning of travoprost 0.004%/timolol 0.5% combination therapy), reduction in intraocular pressure value was 19.86%. The differences (mean +/- standard deviation) in intraocular pressure values after 1, 3 and 6 month were all highly statistically significant compared to baseline values. The tolerability was evaluated in five steps (Likert scale) ranging from unsatisfactory to excellent by both patient and investigator--taken at 3 and 6 month control visit. 95% of patients and 100% of investigators were satisfied with the possibility of choosing dosing regimen for travoprost 0.004%/timolol 0.5% fixed combination. Travoprost 0.004%/timolol 0.5% fixed combination proved sufficient intraocular pressure control dosed either PM or AM with no statistically significant difference between two dosing regimens. Possibility to choose between two dosing regimens gives each practitioner additional reassurance that glaucoma therapy will be individualised to needs of each patient.

UI  - 20962352
TI  - Canaloplasty for primary open-angle glaucoma: long-term outcome.
AB  - Canaloplasty produced a sustained long-term reduction of IOP in black Africans with POAG independent of preoperative IOP. As a bleb-independent procedure, canaloplasty may be a true alternative to classic filtering surgery, in particular in patients with enhanced wound healing and scar formation.

UI  - 20946342
TI  - Performance of time-domain and spectral-domain Optical Coherence Tomography for glaucoma screening.
AB  - Stratus, with high specificity and positive predictive values, seemed to be best of choice for screening purposes, while Cirrus, with high sensitivity, was the better choice for early detection.

UI  - 20932583
TI  - Treatment outcomes in the Ahmed Baerveldt Comparison Study after 1 year of follow-up.
AB  - Although the average IOP after 1 year was slightly higher in patients who received an AGV, there were fewer early and serious postoperative complications associated with the use of the AGV than the BGI.

UI  - 20932582
TI  - Interim clinical outcomes in the collaborative bleb-related infection incidence and treatment study.
AB  - The cumulative probability of bleb-related infection was prospectively determined to be 1.50.6% in eyes treated with mitomycin C-augmented trabeculectomy or trabeculectomy combined with phacoemulsification and intraocular lens implantation at the 2.5-year follow-up in the Collaborative Bleb-related Infection Incidence and Treatment Study.

UI  - 20932581
TI  - The Ahmed Baerveldt Comparison Study methodology, baseline patient characteristics, and intraoperative complications.
AB  - The ABC Study should yield valuable prospective data comparing 2 commonly used aqueous shunts in clinical practice.

UI  - 20874499
TI  - Bimatoprost 0.03% versus brimonidine 0.2% in the prevention of intraocular pressure spike following neodymium:yttriumaluminumgarnet laser posterior capsulotomy.
AB  - Our results indicate that prophylactic use of bimatoprost 0.03% is more effective than brimonidine 0.2% in preventing IOP elevation immediately after YAG laser capsulotomy. Bimatoprost 0.03% as a prostamide analog may provide new option for preventing IOP elevation after YAG laser capsulotomy.

UI  - 20872359
TI  - Effects of osmoprotection on symptoms, ocular surface damage, and tear film modifications caused by glaucoma therapy.
AB  - This study demonstrates for the first time that the use of concomitant CMCs in the management of glaucoma undergoing treatment with BB or PG may assist in tear film production and could lead to better compliance with intraocular pressure-lowering medication and ultimately better prognosis.

UI  - 20868259
TI  - Design and methodology of a randomized controlled trial of laser iridotomy for the prevention of angle closure in southern China: the Zhongshan angle Closure Prevention trial.
AB  - The ZAP trial will determine if LI is safe and effective at preventing pathological angle closure in asymptomatic eyes with narrow angle configurations on gonioscopy. It will also provide data on what happens to untreated eyes in PACSs. Data collected at baseline will also help identify those at high risk for developing primary angle closure and primary angle closure glaucoma.

UI  - 20853262
TI  - Evaluation of corneal biomechanical properties with the Reichert Ocular Response Analyzer.
AB  - Patients with glaucoma seem to have distinctive corneal biomechanical properties compared to OHT and NL. They may be influenced by many other unknown subparameters.

UI  - 20852441
TI  - Corticosteroids versus NSAIDs on intraocular pressure and the hypertensive phase after Ahmed glaucoma valve surgery.
AB  - Mean IOP was greater at all time points postoperatively in the steroid group with the difference between groups statistically significant at week 4. The nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug group showed greater wound-healing problems.

UI  - 20852438
TI  - Measurement of adherence to brimonidine therapy for glaucoma using electronic monitoring.
AB  - Individual adherence with brimonidine was highly variable and pharmacologically insufficient for more than two-third of the patients. Special attention should be paid to compliance of patients with normal-tension glaucoma. Our findings underline the need to improve individual adherence and drug delivery in topical glaucoma therapy.

UI  - 20847657
TI  - Efficacy of hydroxypropyl cellulose ophthalmic inserts (LACRISERT) in subsets of patients with dry eye syndrome: findings from a patient registry.
AB  - In subsets of patients with moderate to severe DES and comorbid conditions, hydroxypropyl cellulose ophthalmic inserts improve the symptoms of DES, ability to perform ADLs, and quality of life. The reported benefits may be additive to those seen with patients' existing therapies.

UI  - 20829321
TI  - Comparing rates of retinal nerve fibre layer loss with GDxECC using different methods of visual-field progression.
AB  - Despite differences in the criteria used to judge functional progression, progressing eyes have a significantly greater rate of RNFL loss measured using GDxECC as compared with non-progressing eyes.

UI  - 20828829
TI  - Randomized evaluation of the trabecular micro-bypass stent with phacoemulsification in patients with glaucoma and cataract.
AB  - Pressure reduction on fewer medications was clinically and statistically significantly better 1 year after stent plus cataract surgery versus cataract surgery alone, with an overall safety profile similar to that of cataract surgery alone.

UI  - 20827920
TI  - [The role of iridectomy in glaucoma surgery].
AB  - A proper selection of open-angle glaucoma cases allows the abandonment of peripheral iridectomy in trabeculectomy and phacotrabeculectomy.

UI  - 20825668
TI  - Long-term effect of latanoprost/timolol fixed combination in patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension: a prospective, observational, noninterventional study.
AB  - Over 24 months, latanoprost/timolol FC effectively lowers IOP levels and is well tolerated in patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension who change from their previous ocular hypotensive therapy for medical reasons. Investigator assessments found optic disc parameters and visual field to be stable throughout 24 months of follow-up.

UI  - 20819599
TI  - Intraocular pressure lowering efficacy and safety of travoprost 0.004% as a replacement therapy in patients with open angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
AB  - In patients treated with other hypotensive medications or untreated, the IOP reduction with travoprost was significant. The results of this study demonstrated the potential benefit of using travoprost as a replacement therapy in order to ensure adequate IOP control. Travoprost administered once daily was safe and well tolerated in patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension.

UI  - 20813123
TI  - The impact of intraocular pressure reduction on retinal ganglion cell function measured using pattern electroretinogram in eyes receiving latanoprost 0.005% versus placebo.
AB  - Twenty percent IOP reduction using latanoprost monotherapy is not associated with improvement in RGC function measured with PERGLA.

UI  - 20805135
TI  - The effects of midazolam on intraocular pressure in children during examination under sedation.
AB  - Sedation with midazolam can be assumed to be an applicable, well-tolerated, safe method for IOP measurements in children.

UI  - 20805125
TI  - Comparing the ganglion cell complex and retinal nerve fibre layer measurements by Fourier domain OCT to detect glaucoma in high myopia.
AB  - The ability to diagnose glaucoma with macular GCC thickness was comparable with that with peripapillary RNFL thickness in high-myopia patients. Macular GCC thickness measurements may be a good alternative or a complementary measurement to RNFL thickness assessment in the clinical evaluation of glaucoma in patients with high myopia.

UI  - 20733558
TI  - A prospective randomised trial of trabeculectomy using mitomycin C vs an ologen implant in open angle glaucoma.
AB  - The complete success rate using trabeculectomy with the ologen implant is lower than that achieved by trabeculectomy with MMC. However, the bleb morphology caused more problems in the MMC group (avascularity score).

UI  - 20717049
TI  - Adjunctive use of bevacizumab versus mitomycin C with Ahmed valve implantation in treatment of pediatric glaucoma.
AB  - The adjunctive use of bevacizumab or mitomycin C during Ahmed valve implantation significantly enhances the valve survival and the first drug seems to be much safer with no visually devastating complications.

UI  - 20717048
TI  - Anterior lens capsule versus mitomycin-C as an adjunct to trabeculectomy in combined phacotrabeculectomy.
AB  - Anterior lens capsule is effective in phacotrabeculectomies.

UI  - 20698715
TI  - Visual field protective effect of Erigeron breviscapus (vant.) Hand. Mazz. extract on glaucoma with controlled intraocular pressure: a randomized, double-blind, clinical trial.
AB  - EBHM extract may have a partial protective effect on the visual field of glaucoma patients with controlled IOP. Further studies are needed to determine the safety and effectiveness of long-term EBHM treatment.

UI  - 20696979
TI  - Canadian Glaucoma Study: 3. Impact of risk factors and intraocular pressure reduction on the rates of visual field change.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00262626.

UI  - 20688314
TI  - Comparison of Travoprost and Bimatoprost plus timolol fixed combinations in open-angle glaucoma patients previously treated with latanoprost plus timolol fixed combination.
AB  - Bimatoprost plus timolol and travoprost plus timolol can provide additional IOP-lowering effect in patients not fully controlled with latanoprost plus timolol. The observed additional IOP reduction was greater with bimatoprost plus timolol with a similar tolerability profile.

UI  - 20675728
TI  - Long-term perimetric fluctuation in patients with different stages of glaucoma.
AB  - This multicentre retrospective study included 161 eyes of 161 stable glaucoma patients undergoing four visual-field tests (Humphrey SITA-Standard program over the central 24 or 30) over a 2-year period. For each patient, the stage of the disease was classified according to GSS2. LF was then calculated as the mean of the standard deviations of point-to-point threshold sensitivities in the four repetitions. LF in GSS2 stages was compared using the t test. Results LF progressively increased from stage 0 to stage 4, and then decreased at stage 5. Stage 4 had a peak of 3.19  0.94 dB, with statistically significant differences compared with all the other stages. The lowest LF (1.65  0.60 dB) was found for normal subjects, whereas similar data were found for borderline patients and those at stages 1 and 5 (2.09  0.58, 2.13  0.57 and 2.22  0.89 dB, respectively; p > 0.13). Visual fields with generalised defects had a lower LF (1.90  0.81) than those with mixed (2.84  0.87, p = 0.0003) and localised (2.63  0.72, p = 0.004) defects. Conclusions In this study, the authors showed that the lower the visual-field defect, the lower was LF, except at stage 5 of GSS2. As test-retest changes exceeding LF could represent a sign of progression, the authors suggest that clinicians using this classification system calculate LF, in order to better differentiate true progression from variability.

UI  - 20673200
TI  - Comparison of the effects of dorzolamide/timolol and latanoprost/timolol fixed combinations upon intraocular pressure and progression of visual field damage in primary open-angle glaucoma.
AB  - Both treatments significantly reduced IOP as compared with baseline. Additionally, treatment with dorzolamide/timolol fixed combination seem to be effective in preventing glaucomatous visual field progression. This study has some limitations that should be noted, among them its open-label design.

UI  - 20651749
TI  - 24-h Intraocular pressure control with evening-dosed travoprost/timolol, compared with latanoprost/timolol, fixed combinations in exfoliative glaucoma.
AB  - This study suggests that evening-dosed TTFC may provide greater 24-h IOP reduction, primarily at the 1800 hours time point, compared with LTFC in XFG.

UI  - 20633931
TI  - Predicting the onset of glaucoma: the confocal scanning laser ophthalmoscopy ancillary study to theOcular Hypertension Treatment Study.
AB  - These results suggest that baseline GPS, MRA, and stereoparameters alone or when combined with baseline clinical and demographic factors can be used to predict the development of POAG end points in OHTS participants and are as effective as stereophotographs for estimating the risk of developing POAG in ocular hypertensive subjects.

UI  - 20619460
TI  - The utility of the monocular trial: data from the ocular hypertension treatment study.
AB  - Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.

UI  - 20610476
TI  - Comparisons of anterior segment biometry between Chinese and Caucasians using anterior segment optical coherence tomography.
AB  - Chinese eyes had smaller ACD, smaller ACW and greater iris thickness than Caucasians. ACD was the most influential parameter in determining the angle width in both ethnic groups.

UI  - 20590394
TI  - Phacoemulsification-deep sclerectomy modified by trabeculum microperforations and implantation of lens anterior capsule as autologous scleral implant.
AB  - Phacoemulsification-deep sclerectomy modified by trabecular microperforations and anterior capsule as a scleral implant lead to an effective decrease in the IOP in medium-term follow-up. The profile of the observed complications indicates that it can be a safe procedure. However, a larger group of patients should be observed to confirm this.

UI  - 20578283
TI  - Ocular surface tolerability of prostaglandin analogs in patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
AB  - There were no significant differences among bimatoprost (preserved with 0.005% BAK), latanoprost (preserved with 0.02% BAK), and travoprost (preserved with sofZia) in objective clinical measures of ocular tolerability, including physician-graded hyperemia, corneal staining, and TBUT after 3 months of treatment. Longer-term studies are needed to further evaluate the ocular surface tolerability of these prostaglandin analogs.

UI  - 20577116
TI  - The influence of topical diclofenac sodium on the ocular hypotensive effect of latanoprost in glaucoma patients.
AB  - Topical diclofenac sodium may interfere with the IOP lowering effect of latanoprost in glaucoma patients; therefore this interference should be noted in coadministration of these drugs.

UI  - 20577111
TI  - A comparison of the intraocular pressure lowering effect of adjustable suture versus laser suture lysis for trabeculectomy.
AB  - There was no significant difference in hypotensive efficacy between adjustable suture group and laser suture lysis group. The use of adjustable sutures may reduce the incidence of shallow anterior chamber and hypotony after postoperative intraocular pressure lowering procedures.

UI  - 20577103
TI  - The effect of early posttrabeculectomy intraocular pressure spike in the collaborative initial glaucoma treatment study.
AB  - Among Collaborative Initial Glaucoma Treatment Study patients, early posttrabeculectomy IOP spike 5 mm Hg above baseline IOP was not associated with subsequent VF loss, but was associated with significantly higher IOP during long-term follow-up.

UI  - 20577097
TI  - Goldmann applanation tonometry and dynamic contour tonometry are not correlated with central corneal thickness in primary open angle glaucoma.
AB  - In this group of patients with OAG, there was a strong correlation between GAT and DCT measurements of IOP. IOP measured with DCT was consistently higher than IOP measured with GAT. Neither GAT nor DCT measurements were correlated with CCT. This data suggests that factors other than CCT may be involved in the tendency of DCT to produce higher measures of IOP than GAT.

UI  - 20570363
TI  - The effect of trabeculectomy on intraocular pressure of the untreated fellow eye in the collaborative initial glaucoma treatment study.
AB  - Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.

UI  - 20570237
TI  - Bleb morphology and vascularity after trabeculectomy with intravitreal ranibizumab: a pilot study.
AB  - Combination intravitreal ranibizumab and topical MMC at time of trabeculectomy resulted in more diffuse blebs with less vascularity when compared to use of topical MMC alone. Further studies are planned to better understand the utility of anti-vascular endothelial growth factor agents as modulators of wound healing post trabeculectomy.

UI  - 20558428
TI  - The additive effect of dorzolamide hydrochloride (Trusopt) and a morning dose of bimatoprost (Lumigan) on intraocular pressure and retrobulbar blood flow in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma.
AB  - The addition of dorzolamide to morning-dosed bimatoprost had an additive hypotensive effect only on the night-time IOP curve at 4:00 h and resulted in a lower IOP fluctuation. Dorzolamide added to bimatoprost may reduce vascular resistance in the OA.

UI  - 20558424
TI  - Long-term ocular complications in aphakic versus pseudophakic eyes of children with juvenile idiopathic arthritis-associated uveitis.
AB  - With maximum control of perioperative inflammation and intensive follow-up, the implantation of an intraocular lens in well-selected eyes of children with JIA-associated uveitis is not associated with an increased risk of ocular hypertension, secondary glaucoma, cystoid macular oedema and optic disc swelling and showed better visual results up to and including 7 years after cataract extraction.

UI  - 20556928
TI  - The combination latanoprost-timolol versus twice daily 0.50% timolol administration either associated or not with latanoprost: efficacy and tolerability in the primary open-angle glaucoma.
AB  - The once daily latanoprost-timolol combination was shown to furtherly reduce the Intraocular Pressure (IOP) (p=0.001) and to maintain under control the intraocular pressure for the observation period (24 months). Both topical and systemic side-effects were scarse and tolerability was good.

UI  - 20553122
TI  - IOP-lowering efficacy and tolerability of preservative-free tafluprost 0.0015% among patients with ocular hypertension or glaucoma.
AB  - Although this study was limited by its observational design, the results demonstrate that preservative-free tafluprost is an effective, well tolerated, and safe medication in a patient population with poor IOP control and/or tolerability issues with their medication prior used.

UI  - 20546237
TI  - Switching from a preserved to a preservative-free prostaglandin preparation in topical glaucoma medication.
AB  - Preservative-free tafluprost maintained IOP at the same level as latanoprost, but was better tolerated in patients having signs or symptoms while on preserved latanoprost. Preservative-free tafluprost treatment resulted in improved QoL, increased patient satisfaction and drop comfort.

UI  - 20544681
TI  - Is there any difference in target intraocular pressure for exfoliative glaucoma patients with cardiovascular disease history?
AB  - Although IOP is the main determinant of progression in XFG under treatment, history of severe CVD should be further investigated as potential risk factor for glaucomatous progression.

UI  - 20544673
TI  - Efficacy of brimonidine in preventing intraocular pressure spikes following phacoemulsification in glaucoma patients.
AB  - Patients with medically well-controlled glaucoma may experience a substantial increase in IOP shortly after phacoemulsification surgery. Instillation of brimonidine tartrate 0.2%, although it significantly reduced IOP elevation following cataract operation, did not completely prevent IOP spikes.

UI  - 20543630
TI  - Goldmann applanation tonometry and dynamic contour tonometry after treatment with prostaglandin analog/prostamide.
AB  - 

UI  - 20530662
TI  - Randomised controlled trial of screening and prophylactic treatment to prevent primary angle closure glaucoma.
AB  - We were not able to identify a reduction in the 6 year incidence of PACG after screening with cACD < 2.53 mm and prophylactic treatment of PAC.

UI  - 20520568
TI  - Five-year, multicenter safety study of fixed-combination latanoprost/timolol (Xalacom) for open-angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension.
AB  - After 5 years, more than 70% of participants treated with fixed-combination latanoprost/timolol had no increased iris pigmentation. The fixed combination is safe and well tolerated for long-term treatment in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension.

UI  - 20506965
TI  - Central corneal thickness in children and adolescents with pediatric glaucoma and eye disorders at risk of developing glaucoma.
AB  - This is the largest series of CCT in pediatric glaucoma and related disorders. The data suggest caution in application of standard formulas for IOP-to-CCT correction when evaluating children with glaucoma because their mean CCT values extend far beyond values reported for normal eyes.

UI  - 20505207
TI  - Predicting visual function from the measurements of retinal nerve fiber layer structure.
AB  - The BRBF generates clinically useful relationships that relate topographical maps of RNFL measurement to VF locations and allows the VF sensitivity to be predicted from structural measurements. This method may allow clinicians to evaluate structural and functional measures in the same domain. It could also be generalized to use other structural measures.

UI  - 20495818
TI  - Transpalpebral measurement of intraocular pressure using the Diaton tonometer versus standard Goldmann applanation tonometry.
AB  - We cannot recommend Diaton as a substitute or alternative method for GAT for diagnosis and follow-up of patients with abnormal IOPs, but it may be helpful as a screening tool, especially for subjects whose age is between 20 and 50 years and for healthy subjects.

UI  - 20472748
TI  - Effect of primary selective laser trabeculoplasty on tonographic outflow facility: a randomised clinical trial.
AB  - Primary SLT significantly increased the tonographic outflow facility and decreased IOP in patients with primary open angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension but no statistically significant differences were found between the 360 and 180 groups. The level of IOP reduction due to primary SLT treatment could not be explained by the increase in tonographic outflow facility alone. Clinical trial registration ISRCTN66330584, Current Controlled Trials. 1/11/2006.

UI  - 20472226
TI  - Laser peripheral iridotomy with and without iridoplasty for primary angle-closure glaucoma: 1-year results of a randomized pilot study.
AB  - In eyes with synechial primary angle-closure or primary angle-closure glaucoma, both iridotomy alone or combined with iridoplasty provide a significant and equivalent reduction in IOP. There is also a possible reduction in peripheral anterior synechiae, more so in the iridoplasty group.

UI  - 20465440
TI  - Effect of repeated applanation tonometry on the accuracy of intraocular pressure measurements.
AB  - Patients with glaucoma show a decrease in IOP on repeated applanation tonometry measurements. By contrast, in individuals without glaucoma, no significant decrease in IOP on repeated applanation tonometry measurements was found.

UI  - 20457982
TI  - Natural history of intraocular pressure in the early manifest glaucoma trial: A 6-year follow-up.
AB  - In patients with early glaucoma, IOP remained stable without treatment during a 6-year period, regardless of baseline IOP, except for patients with exfoliation glaucoma, where IOP increased by almost 1 mm Hg annually. No factors, aside from exfoliation glaucoma, were related to longitudinal changes in IOP. These new natural history data may be useful in guiding management decisions for glaucoma treatment, particularly in patients with early disease or with exfoliation glaucoma.

UI  - 20457975
TI  - African Descent and Glaucoma Evaluation Study (ADAGES): III. Ancestry differences in visual function in healthy eyes.
AB  - People of AD have significantly worse performance than people of ED on all tests of visual function. Additional research using longitudinal data is needed to determine the cause of these small but significant ancestry differences in visual function.

UI  - 20457974
TI  - African Descent and Glaucoma Evaluation Study (ADAGES): II. Ancestry differences in optic disc, retinal nerve fiber layer, and macular structure in healthy subjects.
AB  - Most of the variations in optic nerve morphologic characteristics between the AD and ED groups are due to differences in disc area. However, differences remain in HRT cup depth, OCT macular thickness and volume, and OCT retinal nerve fiber layer thickness independent of these variables. These differences should be considered in the determination of disease status.

UI  - 20456437
TI  - Comparative study of three prostaglandin analogues in the treatment of newly diagnosed cases of ocular hypertension, open-angle and normal tension glaucoma.
AB  - All the three topical prostaglandin analogues are effective at lowering IOP, but bimatoprost was found to be most effective in the initial phase of the trial, and there was no statistically significant difference in the efficacy, among the three prostaglandin analogue eye drops after 6 months of treatment.

UI  - 20451896
TI  - Ahmed glaucoma valve and single-plate Molteno implants in treatment of refractory glaucoma: a comparative study.
AB  - Both Ahmed and Molteno implants successfully preserved visual field, although IOP control was more pronounced in the Molteno implant group.

UI  - 20447958
TI  - Comparison of Damato campimetry and Humphrey automated perimetry results in a clinical population.
AB  - We found Damato campimetry to be a useful portable device to assess the visual field, with an optimal sensitivity of 81% and a specificity of 72% based on comparison with a Humphrey 24-2 programme. Of the patients studied, 6.5% were unable to do the test and 64% had matched or partially matched results from both assessments. Further study is required to compare complete results with a Humphrey 30-2 programme and also to study populations where patients do not have access to outpatient formal visual field assessments.

UI  - 20447094
TI  - Understanding the mechanism of the water drinking test: the role of fluid challenge volume in patients with medically controlled primary open angle glaucoma.
AB  - The 500-mL WDT may provide an alternative for patients who are unable to tolerate drinking 1000 mL of water. However, because the maximum IOP obtained is less, a 500-mL WDT cannot be used to directly estimate peak diurnal pressure.

UI  - 20441414
TI  - A freeze-dried (lyophilized) amniotic membrane transplantation with mitomycin C and trabeculectomy for pediatric glaucoma.
AB  - Trabeculectomy with amniotic membrane transplantation and MMC can effectively control the elevated IOP in pediatric patients with glaucoma without significant postoperative complications.

UI  - 20437244
TI  - Comparison of the efficacy and tolerability of preservative-free and preservative-containing formulations of the dorzolamide/timolol fixed combination (COSOPT) in patients with elevated intraocular pressure in a randomized clinical trial.
AB  - In patients with elevated IOP, PF and PC dorzolamide/timolol were equivalent in efficacy for change in trough and peak IOP, and had generally similar tolerability.

UI  - 20435603
TI  - Structure-function relationship and diagnostic value of macular ganglion cell complex measurement using Fourier-domain OCT in glaucoma.
AB  - A curvilinear function best described the relationship between VF sensitivity and GCC thickness. Macular GCC thickness and RNFL thickness showed similar diagnostic performance for detecting early, moderate, and severe glaucoma.

UI  - 20429818
TI  - Comparison of ocular hypotensive actions of fixed combinations of brimonidine/timolol and dorzolamide/timolol.
AB  - Reductions from baseline in mean diurnal IOP and morning IOP were greater with BrTFC than with DTFC.

UI  - 20420586
TI  - Efficacy and safety of tafluprost 0.0015% versus latanoprost 0.005% eye drops in open-angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension: 24-month results of a randomized, double-masked phase III study.
AB  - Tafluprost is a new effective and well-tolerated treatment for glaucoma and ocular hypertension.

UI  - 20406256
TI  - On repeated corneal applanation with the Goldmann and two non-contact tonometers.
AB  - A small but statistically significant reduction in the intraocular pressure was found following applanation with the Goldmann tonometer but not with either one of two non-contact tonometers.

UI  - 20394542
TI  - Comparing anatomical pattern of topical anti-glaucoma medications associated lacrimal obstruction with a control group.
AB  - Although punctum and canaliculus are the main anatomical sites of LDSO associated with topical AGM, common canaliculus and nasolacrimal duct separately or in association with punctum and canaliculus may also be involved.

UI  - 20393740
TI  - Comparing the detection and agreement of parapapillary atrophy progression using digital optic disk photographs and alternation flicker.
AB  - Serial photographs from 131 eyes of 68 patients were evaluated. Both graders identified significantly more cases of PPA progression using flicker compared to photography (27-34% vs 8-13%; both p< or =0.003). Inter-observer agreement using flicker was better than using photographs (kappa=0.52 vs 0.18, p=0.02). Intra-observer agreement was similar for both graders (photos: kappa=0.58 vs 0.57, p=0.97; flicker: kappa=0.61 vs 0.70, p=0.37). When progression was assessed by the number of progressive quadrants identified by each grader using a weighted kappa statistic, flicker inter-observer agreement was still moderate (kappa=0.45) and significantly better (p=0.01) than photography, which showed poor agreement (kappa=0.15). Intra-observer agreement with a weighted kappa for quadrant progression was also similar for both graders (photos: grader 1 kappa=0.53 vs grader 2 kappa=0.52, p=0.92; flickers: grader 1 kappa=0.58 vs grader 2 kappa=0.69, p=0.22). Conclusion Flicker identified more cases of progressive PPA than photographic review. Agreement between observers was significantly higher when using the automated flicker technology.

UI  - 20386433
TI  - Prevalence of ocular surface complaints in patients with glaucoma using topical intraocular pressure-lowering medications.
AB  - OSD is prevalent among medically treated patients with glaucoma. The severity of OSD symptoms is positively correlated to the number of IOP-lowering medications used.

UI  - 20382428
TI  - Preoperative nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug or steroid and outcomes after trabeculectomy: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.

UI  - 20346780
TI  - Twelve-month, randomized, controlled trial of bimatoprost 0.01%, 0.0125%, and 0.03% in patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
AB  - Bimatoprost 0.01% was equivalent to bimatoprost 0.03% in lowering IOP throughout 12 months of treatment and demonstrated improved tolerability, including less frequent and severe conjunctival hyperemia. Bimatoprost 0.01% demonstrated a better benefit-to-risk ratio than bimatoprost 0.0125%.

UI  - 20346127
TI  - Predictors of additional intraocular pressure reduction in patients changed to latanoprost/timolol fixed combination.
AB  - These results support the use of latanoprost/timolol FC in patients whose IOP is insufficiently controlled on beta-blocker monotherapy. Patients with higher baseline IOP levels and who do not experience adverse events while on therapy are most likely to achieve a positive response to latanoprost/timolol FC.
