
UI  - 25076551
TI  - Evidence of tricuspid valve remodeling in patients with severe mitral regurgitation independently of degree of functional tricuspid regurgitation: a two- and three-dimensional echocardiographic study.
AB  - In patients with severe MR, tricuspid valve remodeling was also demonstrated in those with trivial/mild FTR, but was better characterized by 3D echocardiography. Tricuspid valve remodeling and right ventricular dilation were the main determinants of tricuspid valve regurgitation.

UI  - 25069199
TI  - [Effect of dexmedetomidine and midazolam on respiration and circulation functions in patients undergoing open heart surgery under acupuncture-assisted general anesthesia].
AB  - Dexmedetomidine is superior to Midazolam in analgesia, and improving respiration and circulation functions for open heart surgery patients under acupuncture-assisted general anesthesia.

UI  - 25011274
TI  - [Clinical research of safflower injection on hibernating myocardial revascularization].
AB  - Coronary artery disease (CAD) is one of the leading causes of death. Safflower attracts great attention owing to its anti-ischemia/reperfusion injury effect. Ninety-three patients with CAD were included and randomized into safflower treatment group, PCI group and control group. Low-dose dobutamine stress echocardiography (DSE) was performed to measure end-systolic volume (ESV), end-diastolic volume (EDV), left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) and wall motion score index (WMSI) to determine the recovery of hibernating myocardium and cardiac function in all patients before treatment and after 3-month follow-up. The study was to investigate the effects of safflower on hibernating myocardial revascularization and cardiac function. It was found that LVEF was significantly improved, while the ESV and WMSI were significantly reduced after 2-week treatment in safflower and PCI treatment groups. No significant differences were found between safflower and PCI treatment groups in ESV, EDV, WMSI and LVEF after treatment Safflower injection effectively improved hibernating myocardial function.

UI  - 25002164
TI  - [The CHOICE study].
AB  - 

UI  - 24958751
TI  - Predictors of poor outcomes after transcatheter aortic valve replacement: results from the PARTNER (Placement of Aortic Transcatheter Valve) trial.
AB  - http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00530894.

UI  - 24908956
TI  - [Parallel pharmacological correction of myocardial dysfunction, cognitive and psychopathological disordres in patients with congestive heart failure].
AB  - Was examined 92 patients with congestive heart failure III-IV FC with fraction of emission left ventricle < 45% against coronary artery disease. Patients of control group received basic therapy (according to recommendations of the Ukrainian society of cardiology), the 1 group--in addition received a preparation of Vazonat within 15 days intravenously in a dose of 1000 mg a day further are out-patient within 1 month on 250 mg 3 times per os; the 2 group--under the same scheme a preparation of Vazonat and a day tranquilizer of Adapto in a dose of 500 mg twice a day throughout all term of supervision. It is established that addition of Vazonat to basic treatment leads to additional effect concerning improvement of indicators cardio-hemodynamic, to improvement congestive functions. Joint appointment of preparations of Vazonat and Adaptol against basic treatment leads to more expressed improvement congestive functions, to progressive reduction of degree of trouble, depression.

UI  - 24890527
TI  - PROspective Multicenter Imaging Study for Evaluation of chest pain: rationale and design of the PROMISE trial.
AB  - Multispecialty community practice enrollment into a large pragmatic trial of diagnostic testing strategies is both feasible and efficient. The PROMISE trial will compare the clinical effectiveness of an initial strategy of functional testing against an initial strategy of anatomical testing in symptomatic patients with suspected CAD. Quality of life, resource use, cost-effectiveness, and radiation exposure will be assessed.

UI  - 24882534
TI  - Survival of patients  50 years of age after alcohol septal ablation for hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy.
AB  - Results of this first study focused on HOCM patients aged  50 years who underwent ASA suggest a low risk of all-cause death or appropriate implantable cardioverter-defibrillator discharge in the long-term follow-up.

UI  - 24882530
TI  - Predictors of advanced His-Purkinje conduction disturbances in patients with unexplained syncope and bundle branch block.
AB  - For patients presenting with syncope and BBB, first-degree atrioventricular block and LPFB increased the likelihood of finding HPCDs during EPS. However, no single electrocardiographic feature could consistently predict the outcome of EPS, so this investigation is still necessary in assessing the need for pacemaker implantation, irrespective of the precise appearance of abnormalities on ECG.

UI  - 24852915
TI  - Relation of T-wave alternans to mortality and nonsustained ventricular tachycardia in patients with non-ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndrome from the MERLIN-TIMI 36 trial of ranolazine versus placebo.
AB  - We explored the utility of T-wave alternans (TWA) in predicting mortality in patients with non-ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndrome (NSTEACS). Maximum TWA was calculated using Modified Moving Average method from continuous electrocardiographic recordings in patients with left ventricular ejection fraction <40% and ventricular tachycardia (VT) 4 beats during index hospitalization or sudden cardiac death during thefollow-up year and age- and sex-matched controls in the Metabolic Efficiency withRanolazine for Less Ischemia in Non-ST Elevation Acute Coronary Syndrome-Thrombolysis In Myocardial Infarction (MERLIN-TIMI) 36 trial. All patients received standard therapy for NSTEACS plus ranolazine (n= 109) or placebo (n= 101). Median follow-up was 1year. Baseline clinical characteristics did not differ between patients with elevated TWA (47V) compared with lower levels. Patients with TWA 47V at admission had increased risk of total mortality (adjusted odds ratio [ORadj] 2.35, p= 0.04) during follow-up and VT 4 beats (ORadj 2.70, p= 0.01) during hospitalization with a trend toward increased cardiovascular death risk (ORadj 2.18, p= 0.07) during follow-up. In patients receiving placebo, TWA 47V on day 6 was associated with increased risk of total mortality (OR 4.12, 95% confidence interval 1.25 to 13.64, p= 0.02) and cardiovascular death (OR 4.73, p= 0.01) during follow-up. No deaths occurred among patients with TWA 47V assigned to ranolazine. In conclusion, in patients with NSTEACS and left ventricular ejection fraction <40%, TWA 47V early after admission is associated with increased risk of mortality at 1year and with nonsustained VT during hospitalization. TWA may be useful in risk estimation in patients with NSTEACS. The possibility that TWA may serve as a therapeutic target deserves further exploration.

UI  - 24837268
TI  - Differences in global and regional left ventricular myocardial mechanics in various morphologic subtypes of patients with obstructive hypertrophic cardiomyopathy referred for ventricular septal myotomy/myectomy.
AB  - Patients with obstructive hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HC) have various left ventricular (LV) shapes: reverse septal curvature (RSC, commonly familial), sigmoid septum (SS, common in hypertensives), and concentric hypertrophy (CH). Longitudinal (systolic and early diastolic) strain rate (SR) is sensitive in detecting regional myocardial dysfunction. We sought to determine differences in longitudinal SR of patients with obstructive HC, based on LV shapes. We studied 199 consecutive patients with HC (50% men) referred for surgical myectomy. Clinical and echocardiographic parameters were recorded. LV shapes were classified on echocardiography, using basal septal 1/3 to posterior wall ratio: RSC = ratio >1.3 (extending to mid and distal septum), SS = ratio >1.3 (extending only to basal 1/3), and concentric = ratio 1.3. Longitudinal systolic and early diastolic SRs were measured from apical 4- and 2-chamber views (VVI 2.0; Siemens, Erlangen). Distribution of RSC, SS, and CH was 50%, 28%, and 22%, respectively. Patients with RSC were significantly younger (47  12 vs 64  10 and 57  11, respectively) with lower hypertension (40% vs 71% and 67%, respectively) than patients with SS or CH (both p <0.001). Patients with RSC had lower global systolic (-0.99  0.3 vs -1.05  0.3 and -1.17  0.3) and early diastolic SR (0.95  0.4 vs 0.98  0.3 and 1.16  0.4) versus patients with SS and CH (in 1/s, both p <0.01), despite being much younger and less hypertensive. RSC was associated with abnormal global LV systolic (beta 0.16) and early diastolic (beta -0.17) SR (both p <0.01). In conclusion, patients with HC with RCS have significantly abnormal LV mechanics, despite being younger and less hypertensive. A combination of LV mechanics and shapes could help differentiate between genetically mediated and other causes of obstructive HC.

UI  - 24792735
TI  - One-year outcomes of out-of-hospital administration of intravenous glucose, insulin, and potassium (GIK) in patients with suspected acute coronary syndromes (from the IMMEDIATE [Immediate Myocardial Metabolic Enhancement During Initial Assessment and Treatment in Emergency Care] Trial).
AB  - The Immediate Myocardial Metabolic Enhancement During Initial Assessment and Treatment in Emergency care Trial of very early intravenous glucose-insulin-potassium (GIK) for acute coronary syndromes (ACS) in out-of-hospital emergency medical service (EMS) settings showed 80% reduction in infarct size at 30 days, suggesting potential longer-term benefits. Here we report 1-year outcomes. Prespecified 1-year end points of this randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, effectiveness trial included all-cause mortality and composites including cardiac arrest, mortality, or hospitalization for heart failure (HF). Of 871 participants randomized to GIK versus placebo, death occurred within 1 year in 11.6% versus 13.5%, respectively (unadjusted hazard ratio [HR] 0.83, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.57 to 1.23, p = 0.36). The composite of cardiac arrest or 1-year mortality was 12.8% versus 17.0% (HR 0.71, 95% CI 0.50 to 1.02, p = 0.06). The composite of hospitalization for HF or mortality within 1 year was 17.2% versus 17.2% (HR 0.98, 95% CI 0.70 to 1.37, p = 0.92). The composite of mortality, cardiac arrest, or HF hospitalization within 1 year was 18.1% versus 20.4% (HR 0.85, 95% CI 0.62 to 1.16, p = 0.30). In patients presenting with suspected ST elevation myocardial infarction, HRs for 1-year mortality and the 3 composites were, respectively, 0.65 (95% CI 0.33 to 1.27, p = 0.21), 0.52 (95% CI 0.30 to 0.92, p = 0.03), 0.63 (95% CI 0.35 to 1.16, p = 0.14), and 0.51 (95% CI 0.30 to 0.87, p = 0.01). In patients with suspected acute coronary syndromes, serious end points generally were lower with GIK than placebo, but the differences were not statistically significant. However, in those with ST elevation myocardial infarction, the composites of cardiac arrest or 1-year mortality, and of cardiac arrest, mortality, or HF hospitalization within 1 year, were significantly reduced.

UI  - 24779337
TI  - Early and mid-term functional and hemodynamic evaluation of the St. Jude Medical Regent 17 mm aortic valve mechanical prosthesis.
AB  - The SJMR-17 prosthesis might be employed with satisfactory postoperative clinical and hemodynamic outcome in patients with a small aortic annulus, especially in elderly patients, as an alternative to other valves, or to other surgical strategies such as annulus enlargement.

UI  - 24779331
TI  - Neurocognitive deficit and quality of life after mitral valve repair.
AB  - The study results highlighted the low risk of neurocognitive deficits after MV repair. A substantial improvement in the patients' neurocognitive assessment and QoL, from the preoperative condition to the three-month follow up after surgery, was observed. However, the small number of patients demonstrating a clear cognitive decline made it difficult to identify causative factors for POCD.

UI  - 24766987
TI  - Effect of 8-week exercise-based cardiac rehabilitation on cardiac autonomic function: A randomized controlled trial in myocardial infarction patients.
AB  - Eight weeks of exercise-based cardiac rehabilitation program is an insufficient stimulus to improve cardiac autonomic function in post-myocardial infarction patients under optimal medication and with high levels of traditional and nonlinear HRV indexes at baseline.

UI  - 24760989
TI  - Improved cardiac function and dietary fatty acid metabolism after modest weight loss in subjects with impaired glucose tolerance.
AB  - Using a novel positron emission tomography (PET) method with oral administration of 14(R,S)-[F]-fluoro-6-thia-heptadecanoic acid (FTHA), we recently demonstrated that subjects with impaired glucose tolerance (IGT) display an impairment in cardiac function associated with increased myocardial uptake of dietary fatty acids. Here, we determined whether modest weight loss induced by lifestyle changes might improve these cardiac metabolic and functional abnormalities. Nine participants with IGT, enrolled in a one-year lifestyle intervention trial, were invited to undergo determination of organ-specific postprandial dietary fatty acids partition using the oral FTHA method, and cardiac function and oxidative metabolic index using PET [C]acetate kinetics with ECG-gated PET ventriculography before and after the intervention. The intervention resulted in significant weight loss and reduction of waist circumference, with reduced postprandial plasma glucose, insulin, and triglycerides excursion. We observed a significant increase in stroke volume, cardiac output, and left ventricular ejection fraction associated with reduced myocardial oxidative metabolic index and fractional dietary fatty acid uptake. Modest weight loss corrects the exaggerated myocardial channeling of dietary fatty acids and improves myocardial energy substrate metabolism and function in IGT subjects.

UI  - 24723582
TI  - Four-group classification of left ventricular hypertrophy based on ventricular concentricity and dilatation identifies a low-risk subset of eccentric hypertrophy in hypertensive patients.
AB  - http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00338260.

UI  - 24717382
TI  - High-dose cholinergic therapy with rivastigmine patch does not prolong QTc time in patients with Alzheimer's disease.
AB  - 

UI  - 24705119
TI  - Transplantation-free survival and interventions at 3 years in the single ventricle reconstruction trial.
AB  - http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00115934.

UI  - 24703920
TI  - Enhanced risk profiling of implanted defibrillator shocks with circulating SCN5A mRNA splicing variants: a pilot trial.
AB  - Circulating expression levels of SCN5A variants were strongly associated with myocardial tissue levels. Furthermore, circulating variant levels were correlative with arrhythmic risk as measured by ICD events in an HF population within 1 year. (Sodium Channel Splicing in Heart Failure Trial [SOCS-HEFT]; NCT01185587).

UI  - 24698463
TI  - Relation of interatrial block to new-onset atrial fibrillation in patients with Chagas cardiomyopathy and implantable cardioverter-defibrillators.
AB  - Chagas cardiomyopathy is an endemic disease in Latin America. A significant proportion of patients develop atrial fibrillation (AF), which may result in stroke and increased morbidity or mortality. Interatrial block (IAB) has been associated with the development of AF in different clinical scenarios. The aim of our study was to determine whether IAB can predict new-onset AF in patients with Chagas cardiomyopathy and implantable cardioverter-defibrillators (ICDs). We conducted a retrospective study of patients with Chagas cardiomyopathy and ICDs from 14 centers in Latin America. Demographics, clinical, and device follow-up were collected. Surface electrocardiograms were scanned at 300 dpi and maximized 8. Semiautomatic calipers were used to determine P-wave onset and offset. Partial IAB was defined as a P wave of >120 ms and advanced IAB as a P wave of >120 ms with biphasic morphology () in inferior leads. AF events and ICD therapies were reviewed during follow-up by 2 independent investigators. A total of 80 patients were analyzed. Mean age was 54.6  10.4 years, and 52 (65%) were male. Mean left ventricular ejection fraction was 40  12%. IAB was detected in 15 patients (18.8%), with 8 (10.0%) partial and 7 (8.8%) advanced. During a follow-up of 33  20 months, 11 patients (13.8%) presented with new AF. IAB (partial + advanced) was strongly associated with new AF (p <0.0001) and inappropriate therapy by the ICD (p = 0.014). In conclusion, IAB (partial + advanced) predicted new-onset AF in patients with Chagas cardiomyopathy and ICDs.

UI  - 24684103
TI  - [Electroacupuncture intervention combined with general anesthesia for 80 cases of heart valve replacement surgery under cardiopulmonary bypass].
AB  - EA combined with general anesthesia strategy for heart valve replacement surgery without endotracheal intubation is safe and can reduce post-operative morbidity and medical costs in patients undergoing heart valve replacement surgery under cardiopulmonary bypass.

UI  - 24682026
TI  - Comparison of balloon-expandable vs self-expandable valves in patients undergoing transcatheter aortic valve replacement: the CHOICE randomized clinical trial.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT01645202.

UI  - 24678937
TI  - Transcatheter aortic-valve replacement with a self-expanding prosthesis.
AB  - In patients with severe aortic stenosis who are at increased surgical risk, TAVR with a self-expanding transcatheter aortic-valve bioprosthesis was associated with a significantly higher rate of survival at 1 year than surgical aortic-valve replacement. (Funded by Medtronic; U.S. CoreValve High Risk Study ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT01240902.).

UI  - 24655706
TI  - Lack of progress in valvular heart disease in the pre-transcatheter aortic valve replacement era: increasing deaths and minimal change in mortality rate over the past three decades.
AB  - Despite improvements in mortality rates for other major conditions and in surgical outcomes for VHD, adjusted VHD mortality rates showed minimal change over the 31 years examined. The ageing population is driving a marked increase in the number of deaths due to VHD.

UI  - 24655705
TI  - Ventricular geometric characteristics and functional benefit of mild right ventricular outflow tract obstruction in patients with significant pulmonary regurgitation after repair of tetralogy of Fallot.
AB  - Patients with combined PR and mild RVOTO had better RV remodeling and exercise capacity compared to those with isolated PR. Our findings confirm the benefits from mild residual RVOTO support a policy of conservative RVOTO relief at repair.

UI  - 24655703
TI  - Scar tissue-guided left ventricular lead placement for cardiac resynchronization therapy in patients with ischemic cardiomyopathy: an acute pressure-volume loop study.
AB  - The extent of LV scar tissue is inversely related to acute pump function improvement during CRT. Pacing at the location of (transmural) scar tissue at any site of the LV will generally deteriorate LV pump function. Placing the LV lead over viable myocardium significantly improves pump function as compared with pacing at the location of scar tissue in patients with ischemic cardiomyopathy.

UI  - 24642467
TI  - Sympathetic activity-associated periodic repolarization dynamics predict mortality following myocardial infarction.
AB  - This study was funded by Angewandte Klinische Forschung, University of Tbingen (252-1-0).

UI  - 24632965
TI  - Effect of statin treatment in patients with acute myocardial infarction and left ventricular systolic dysfunction according to the level of high-sensitivity C-reactive protein.
AB  - The effects of statins on the prognosis of patients with left ventricular (LV) systolic dysfunction remain controversial. The aim of this study was to assess the effect of statin treatment on clinical outcomes in acute myocardial infarction (AMI) patients with LV systolic dysfunction. A total of 5,119 AMI patients with LV ejection fraction less than 50% on the initial echocardiogram were analyzed in the Korean Acute Myocardial Infarction Registry. The study population was divided into 4 groups according to the level of high sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP) and statin treatment: low hs-CRP (hs-CRP  2.0 mg/L) and high hs-CRP (hs-CRP > 2 mg/L) with or without statin therapy. We evaluated the incidence of major adverse cardiac events (MACEs) including cardiac death, reinfarction, target lesion revascularization, and coronary artery bypass grafting during a 12-month period in each group. Statin therapy did not significantly prevent the MACEs in the low hs-CRP groups (with statin: 10.1% versus without statin: 12.0%, P = 0.249). In the high hs-CRP groups, however, the incidence of MACEs was significantly decreased with statin treatment (with statin: 11.3%, without statin: 20.8%, P < 0.001). These findings were consistently observed in all subgroups of the high-hs CRP group, including the subgroup with an LV ejection fraction less than 40%. In a multivariable logistic regression analysis of the high hs-CRP group, lack of statin therapy was a significant predictor of MACE incidence (odds ratio: 1.573, 95% confidence interval: 1.079-2.293, P = 0.018). The statin treatment was associated with better outcome in AMI and LV dysfunction patients with hs-CRP  2 mg/dL.

UI  - 24632280
TI  - Ablation of rotor and focal sources reduces late recurrence of atrial fibrillation compared with trigger ablation alone: extended follow-up of the CONFIRM trial (Conventional Ablation for Atrial Fibrillation With or Without Focal Impulse and Rotor Modulation).
AB  - FIRM-guided ablation is more durable than conventional trigger-based ablation in preventing 3-year AF recurrence. Future studies should investigate how ablation of patient-specific AF-sustaining rotors and focal sources alters the natural history of arrhythmia recurrence. (The Dynamics of Human Atrial Fibrillation; NCT01008722).

UI  - 24630604
TI  - E-point septal separation: a bedside tool for emergency physician assessment of left ventricular ejection fraction.
AB  - Measurements of EPSS by ED physicians were significantly associated with the calculated measurements of LVEF from comprehensive TTE. Subjective visual estimates of GCF, however, demonstrated only moderate agreement with the calculated LVEF. An EPSS measurement greater than 7 mm was uniformly sensitive at identifying patients with severely reduced LVEF.

UI  - 24630387
TI  - Effect of echocardiography-guided left ventricular lead placement for cardiac resynchronization therapy on mortality and risk of defibrillator therapy for ventricular arrhythmias in heart failure patients (from the Speckle Tracking Assisted Resynchronization Therapy for Electrode Region [STARTER] trial).
AB  - Echocardiography-guided left ventricular (LV) lead placement at the site of latest mechanical activation improves heart failure outcomes in patients receiving a cardiac resynchronization therapy defibrillator (CRT-D). In this study, we test the hypothesis that a strategy of echocardiography-guided LV lead placement improves patient survival rate free from appropriate CRT-D therapy for ventricular arrhythmias. Patients enrolled in the prospective, randomized Speckle Tracking Assisted Resynchronization Therapy for Electrode Region trial and treated with a CRT-D device (108 with the echo-guided strategy and 75 with the routine strategy) were followed to the end point of death or first appropriate CRT-D therapy. Over a follow-up period of 3.7  2.1years, 62 patients (33%) died and 40(22%) received appropriate CRT-D therapy. Compared with the routine group, patients in the echo-guided group had improved CRT-D therapy-free survival rate (hazard ratio= 0.64, 95% confidence interval= 0.42 to 0.98, p= 0.038). Patients randomized to the echo-guided LV lead placement were more likely to resynchronize their LV compared with the routine group (72% vs 48%, respectively, p= 0.006). Patients whose LV did resynchronize after CRT-D had improved therapy-free survival rate compared with those whose LV did not resynchronize (hazard ratio= 0.49, 95% confidence interval= 0.28 to 0.86, p= 0.012). In conclusion, a strategy of echo-guided LV lead placement improved the patient survival rate free from defibrillator therapy in CRT-D recipients.

UI  - 24627436
TI  - Phase-1 clinical trial results of high-specific-activity carrier-free 123I-iobenguane.
AB  - Human normal-organ kinetics, radiation dosimetry, clinical safety, and imaging efficacy provide compelling evidence for the use of high-specific-activity (123)I-iobenguane.

UI  - 24607029
TI  - A metric for evaluating the cardiac response to resynchronizationtherapy.
AB  - We hypothesized that the response to cardiac resynchronization therapy with a defibrillator (CRT-D) in patients with mildly symptomatic heart failure (HF) is more favorable than the commonly referenced figure of 70%. This study involves the Multicenter Automatic Defibrillator Implantation Trial with Cardiac Resynchronization Therapy (MADIT-CRT) study population in which paired echocardiograms from baseline and 1-year follow-up were available in 621 implantable cardioverter-defibrillator-treated patients and 749 patients treated with CRT-D. We prespecified CRT-D responders as the patients who at 1-year follow-up had a reduction in left ventricular end-systolic volume (LVESV) that corresponded to the top (best) quintile of LVESV reduction in the implantable cardioverter-defibrillator-treated patients, that is, a 17% reduction in LVESV. Using this metric, 88% of patients treated with CRT-D and 91% of the patients treated with CRT-D with left bundle branch block (LBBB) were identified as cardiac resynchronization therapy responders. Landmark multivariate Cox model analyses revealed a significant interaction (p=0.038) involving LVESV (responders vs nonresponders) and LBBB (present vs not present) in risk reduction for HF or death. The interaction finding indicates that cardiac resynchronization therapy responders with LBBB have a significantly lower risk for HF or death (hazard ratio [HR] 0.24) than patients without LBBB (HR 0.62). In the patients treated with CRT-D, LVESV response was associated with reduction in the risk of death (HR 0.20, p<0.001). An increasing percent reduction in LVESV was associated with progressively lower rates of HF or death, a finding consistent with a dose-response relation. In conclusion, approximately 90% of CRT-D-treated patients in MADIT-CRT had a significant and meaningful reduction in LVESV, and these LVESV responders had reduced rates of cardiac events during long-term follow-up.

UI  - 24606847
TI  - SPECT analysis of cardiac perfusion changes after whole-breast/chest wall radiation therapy with or without active breathing coordinator: results of a randomized phase 3 trial.
AB  - In this randomized controlled trial, ABC does not appear to prevent radiation-induced cardiac perfusion deficits.

UI  - 24595228
TI  - Cardiospecific sevoflurane treatment quenches inflammation but does not attenuate myocardial cell damage markers: a proof-of-concept study in patients undergoing mitral valve repair.
AB  - Nederlands Trial Register NTR2089.

UI  - 24593877
TI  - Traffic-related air pollution and the right ventricle. The multi-ethnic study of atherosclerosis.
AB  - Higher levels of NO2 exposure were associated with greater RV mass and larger RV end-diastolic volume.

UI  - 24585727
TI  - Arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia/cardiomyopathy and cardiac sarcoidosis: distinguishing features when the diagnosis is unclear.
AB  - The 2010 diagnostic criteria for ARVD/C have limited discrimination in distinguishing between ARVD/C and CS. Despite the overlay in clinical presentation, older age of symptom onset, presence of cardiovascular comorbidities, nonfamilial pattern of disease, PR interval prolongation, high-grade atrioventricular block, significant left ventricular dysfunction, myocardial delayed enhancement of the septum, and mediastinal lymphadenopathy should raise the suspicion for CS.

UI  - 24585510
TI  - Evaluation of radiation dose to cardiac and pulmonary tissue among patients with stage IV Wilms tumor and pulmonary metastases.
AB  - The dose to the heart and lung tissue is significantly increased when WLI and abdominal RT fields are administered sequentially. While omission of WLI may be beneficial for patients achieving good response to induction chemotherapy, the less favorable response group may be subjected to increased risk of cardiac and pulmonary toxicities from sequential WLI.

UI  - 24579432
TI  - Transcatheter left atrial appendage closure for stroke prevention in atrial fibrillation with Amplatzer cardiac plug: the Belgian Registry.
AB  - The Belgian registry shows that LAA closure using the ACP device is feasible and safe. At 1-y follow-up, the observed stroke rate was 2.14%/year, less than predicted by the CHA2DS2-VASc score. Longer follow-up is needed to evaluate the long-term safety and its efficacy in reducing stroke.

UI  - 24576545
TI  - Left ventricular systolic function following alcohol septal ablation for symptomatic hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.
AB  - Because alcohol septal ablation (ASA) for the treatment of symptomatic hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HC) with left ventricular (LV) outflow tract (LVOT) obstruction results in a myocardial infarct of up to 10% of ventricular mass, LV systolic function could decline over time. We evaluated LV function during longitudinal follow-up in a cohort of patients who underwent ASA. We studied 145 consecutive patients with HC that underwent 167 ASA procedures from 2002 to 2011. Echocardiographic follow-up was available in 139 patients (96%). Echocardiographic indexes included LV ejection fraction (LVEF), mitral regurgitation severity, systolic anterior motion of the anterior mitral leaflet, and resting and provoked LVOT gradients. All patients had a baseline LVEF of >55%. LVEF was preserved in 97.1% of patients over a mean follow-up time of 3.12.3 years (maximum 9.7). Mild LV systolic dysfunction was observed (LVEF range 44% to 54%) in only 4 patients. Mitral regurgitation severity improved in 67% (n=112 of 138 with complete data). Resting LVOT gradient declined from a mean of 75 to 19 mm Hg (p<0.001), and provoked gradient declined from a mean of 101 to 33 mm Hg (p<0.001). New York Heart Association class improved from a mean of 2.90.4 to 1.30.5 (p<0.001). In conclusion, LV systolic function is only mildly reduced in a minority of patients after ASA for symptomatic HC; other echocardiographic and functional measures were significantly improved.

UI  - 24566199
TI  - Postprocedural aortic regurgitation in balloon-expandable and self-expandable transcatheter aortic valve replacement procedures: analysis of predictors and impact on long-term mortality: insights from the FRANCE2 Registry.
AB  - Postprocedural ARgrade 2 was observed in 15.8% of successful TAVR and was the strongest independent predictor of 1-year mortality. The use of the SE device was a powerful independent predictor of postprocedural ARgrade 2.

UI  - 24565266
TI  - Usefulness of subclinical left ventricular midwall dysfunction to predict cardiovascular mortality in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - In this study, we tested the hypothesis that impaired midwall shortening predicts cardiovascular (CV) mortality in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM). In patients with DM without overt cardiac disease, systolic left ventricular (LV) function analyzed by midwall shortening may be impaired although LV ejection fraction is preserved. Impaired midwall shortening is an early independent prognosticator of adverse clinical outcome in patients with arterial hypertension. We analyzed the echocardiographic data from 360 outpatients with DM collected during the years 1990 to 2007. Patients had no history or symptoms attributable to cardiac disease. Stress-corrected midwall shortening (sc-MS) was taken as index of systolic LV function and considered impaired if <89%. The study outcome was CV mortality. At baseline, impaired sc-MS was detected in 140 patients (39%). During a mean follow-up period of 11 years, 54 patients (15%) died, 31 (8.6%) of them from CV causes. CV deaths occurred in 21 of 140 patients (15%) with impaired sc-MS and in 10 of 220 patients (4.5%) with normal sc-MS (p=0.006). Multivariate Cox regression analysis revealed that impaired sc-MS (hazard ratio 1.03, 95% confidence interval 1.01 to 1.08, p=0.039), together with lower estimated glomerular filtration rate (hazard ratio 0.96, 95% confidence interval 0.93 to 0.99, p=0.004), was independently associated with CV mortality even after adjustment for age, diabetes duration, hemoglobin A1c, left atrial diameter, and heart valve calcium. In conclusion, subclinical systolic LV dysfunction as measured by sc-MS occurs frequently in patients with DM without overt cardiac disease and independently predicts long-term CV mortality in such patients together with lower estimated glomerular filtration rate.

UI  - 24561644
TI  - Volatile anaesthetics and positive pressure ventilation reduce left atrial performance: a transthoracic echocardiographic study in young healthy adults.
AB  - NCT0024451.

UI  - 24561009
TI  - Left ventricular lead position and outcomes in the Resynchronization-Defibrillation for Ambulatory Heart Failure Trial (RAFT).
AB  - Poor agreement between implanting physician and core lab CXR-based categorizations of LV lead position was observed. Neither categorization method resulted in significant associations between apical or anterior LV lead position and the risk of the composite primary outcome of death or heart failure hospitalization. However, CXR-defined apical lead position was associated with increased risk of HF hospitalization.

UI  - 24554716
TI  - Growth differentiation factor (GDF)-15 blocks norepinephrine-induced myocardial hypertrophy via a novel pathway involving inhibition of epidermal growth factor receptor transactivation.
AB  - Accumulating evidence suggests that growth differentiation factor 15 (GDF-15) is associated with the severity and prognosis of various cardiovascular diseases. However, the effect of GDF-15 on the regulation of cardiac remodeling is still poorly understood. In this present study, we demonstrate that GDF-15 blocks norepinephrine (NE)-induced myocardial hypertrophy through a novel pathway involving inhibition of EGFR transactivation. Both in vivo and in vitro assay indicate that NE was able to stimulate the synthesis of GDF-15. The up-regulation of GDF-15 feedback inhibits NE-induced myocardial hypertrophy, including quantitation of [(3)H]leucine incorporation, protein/DNA ratio, cell surface area, and ANP mRNA level. Further research shows that GDF-15 could inhibit the phosphorylation of EGF receptor and downstream kinases (AKT and ERK1/2) induced by NE. Clinical research also shows that serum GDF-15 levels in hypertensive patients were significant higher than in healthy volunteers and were positively correlated with the thickness of the posterior wall of the left ventricle, interventricular septum, and left ventricular mass, as well as the serum level of norepinephrine. In conclusion, NE induces myocardial hypertrophy and up-regulates GDF-15, and this up-regulation of GDF-15 negatively regulates NE-induced myocardial hypertrophy by inhibiting EGF receptor transactivation following NE stimulation.

UI  - 24550436
TI  - Interstitial fibrosis, left ventricular remodeling, and myocardial mechanical behavior in a population-based multiethnic cohort: the Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis (MESA) study.
AB  - Greater ECE is associated with reduced LV end-diastolic volume index and LV end-diastolic mass index in a large multiethnic population without history of previous cardiovascular events. In addition, greater ECE is associated with reduced circumferential shortening, lower early diastolic strain rate, and a preserved ejection fraction in women, whereas in men, greater ECE is associated with greater LV dysfunction manifested as reduced circumferential shortening, reduced LV torsion, and reduced ejection fraction.

UI  - 24549549
TI  - Radiofrequency ablation vs antiarrhythmic drugs as first-line treatment of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation (RAAFT-2): a randomized trial.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00392054.

UI  - 24523413
TI  - Radiofrequency ablation versus antiarrhythmic medication for treatment of ventricular premature beats from the right ventricular outflow tract: prospective randomized study.
AB  - Catheter ablation is more efficacious than AADs for preventing VPB recurrence in patients with frequent VPBs originating from the RVOT. QS morphology in lead I was associated with better outcome after ablation.

UI  - 24521953
TI  - Weight-based versus set dosing of vancomycin for coronary artery bypass grafting or aortic valve surgery.
AB  - Weight-based vancomycin dosing before coronary artery bypass grafting or valve replacement results in vancomycin concentrations greater than 15 g/mL consistently more than does standard 1-g dosing.

UI  - 24515411
TI  - Different prognostic value of functional right ventricular parameters in arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy/dysplasia.
AB  - This long-term observational study indicates that TAPSE and dilation of right-sided cardiac chambers are associated with an increased risk for MACE in patients with ARVC/D with advanced disease and a high risk for adverse events. However, FAC is the strongest echocardiographic predictor of adverse outcome in these patients. Our data advocate a role for transthoracic echocardiography in risk stratification in patients with ARVC/D, although our results may not be generalizable to lower-risk ARVC/D cohorts.

UI  - 24512654
TI  - Reduced anticoagulation after mechanical aortic valve replacement: interim results from the prospective randomized on-X valve anticoagulation clinical trial randomized Food and Drug Administration investigational device exemption trial.
AB  - INR can be safely maintained between 1.5 and 2.0 after aortic valve replacement with this approved bileaflet mechanical prosthesis. With low-dose aspirin, this resulted in a significantly lower risk of bleeding, without a significant increase in thromboembolism.

UI  - 24509430
TI  - Pacemaker current inhibition in experimental human cardiac sympathetic activation: a double-blind, randomized, crossover study.
AB  - Hyperpolarization-activated, cyclic nucleotide-gated 4 (HCN4) channels comprise the final pathway for autonomic heart rate (HR) regulation. We hypothesized that HCN4 inhibition could reverse autonomic imbalance in a human model of cardiac sympathetic activation. Nineteen healthy men ingested oral metoprolol+reboxetine, ivabradine+reboxetine, or placebo+reboxetine in a double-blind, randomized, crossover fashion. We assessed HR, blood pressure (BP), stroke volume, and cardiac output during rest and profound orthostatic stress. HR variability, BP variability, and baroreflex sensitivity were analyzed. Metoprolol, but not ivabradine, decreased resting HR and BP. Ivabradine attenuated the HR increase to orthostatic stress, albeit to a lesser extent than metoprolol. Stroke volume and cardiac output at a given HR were significantly lower with metoprolol. Unlike metoprolol, ivabradine did not affect HR variability, BP variability, or baroreflex sensitivity. Ivabradine attenuates sympathetic influences on HR at the sinus node level, leaving myocardial sympathetic activation unopposed. Reversal of parasympathetic dysfunction by ivabradine appears limited.

UI  - 24509270
TI  - Transcatheter versus surgical closure of perimembranous ventricular septal defects in children: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Transcatheter device closure and surgical repair are effective interventions with excellent midterm results for treating pmVSD in children. Transcatheter device closure has a lower incidence of myocardial injury, less blood transfused, faster recovery, shorter hospital stay, and lower medical expenses. (Transcatheter Closure Versus Surgery of Perimembranous Ventricular Septal Defects; NCT00890799).

UI  - 24503784
TI  - Chronic dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibition with sitagliptin is associated with sustained protection against ischemic left ventricular dysfunction in a pilot study of patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and coronary artery disease.
AB  - URL: http://www.isrctn.org. Unique identifier ISRCTN61646154.

UI  - 24501924
TI  - [Efficacy of the myocardium cytoprotection in patients with ischemic heart disease during extended operations on abdominal organs].
AB  - The results of studying of the myocardium contractile capacity in patients, suffering the ischemic heart disease, while performing the extended operative interventions are presented. There was noted, that the indices of the myocardium contractile capacity witness its inhibition during traumatic stage of operation and in early postoperative period. There was established an important significance of the myocardium cytoprotection in preoperative preparation of the patients.

UI  - 24496537
TI  - Association of atrial tissue fibrosis identified by delayed enhancement MRI and atrial fibrillation catheter ablation: the DECAAF study.
AB  - Among patients with AF undergoing catheter ablation, atrial tissue fibrosis estimated by delayed enhancement MRI was independently associated with likelihood of recurrent arrhythmia. The clinical implications of this association warrant further investigation.

UI  - 24488978
TI  - Electrophysiologic profile and results of invasive risk stratification in asymptomatic children and adolescents with the Wolff-Parkinson-White electrocardiographic pattern.
AB  - Adverse AP properties at baseline were exhibited by 37.6% of the evaluated patients with an asymptomatic Wolff-Parkinson-White preexcitation persisting at peak exercise. Isoproterenol challenge yielded additional 36.4% of those tested at higher risk. Ablation was performed in a total of 69.4% of patients subjected to invasive risk stratification.

UI  - 24475554
TI  - Comparative study of heart rate responses to laryngoscopic endotracheal intubation and to endotracheal intubation using intubating laryngeal mask airway under general anaesthesia in patients with pure mitral stenosis for closed mitral commissurotomy.
AB  - The various drugs and methods studied in an attempt to curb the haemodynamic stress response associated with conventional laryngoscopic endotracheal intubation have not been found to be ompletely satisfactory. The rise in heart rate can be detrimental to patients with mitral stenosis. This study was aimed to compare the heart rate responses to endotracheal intubation using conventional laryngoscope and with the help of intubating laryngeal mask airway (ILMA) in patients with isolated mitral stenosis. Thirty-four adult patients of either sex, aged between 18 and 40 years with isolated mitral stenosis to undergo closed mitral commissurotomy were randomly allocated into two groups : Group A (n=17)- To be intubated using laryngoscopy. Group B (n=17)- To be intubated with the help of ILMA. The heart rate was recorded immediately preinduction, just prior to introducing the intubating device and postintubation every minute up to first 5 minutes. On applying statistical tests, it was found that the median heart rate values in group A at 2, 3, 4 and 5 minutes postintubation were significantly higher than in group B (p<0.05). Although use of both laryngosope and ILMA for endotracheal intubation was associated with rise in heart rate, the rise was less with ILMA compared to laryngoscope. Hence, it can be concluded that use of ILMA may be a preferable device for endotracheal intubation laryngoscopy in patients with isolated mitral stenosis.

UI  - 24446022
TI  - Incidence and significance of early recurrences of atrial fibrillation after cryoballoon ablation: insights from the multicenter Sustained Treatment of Paroxysmal Atrial Fibrillation (STOP AF) Trial.
AB  - ERAF after cryoballoon ablation occurs in 50% of patients and is strongly associated with LR. Early reablation for ERAF is associated with excellent long-term freedom from recurrent AF.

UI  - 24440330
TI  - Comparison of the safety and feasibility of arrhythmia ablation using the Amigo Robotic Remote Catheter System versus manual ablation.
AB  - The aim of this study is to evaluate the safety and feasibility of using the Amigo Remote Catheter System (RCS) in arrhythmia ablation procedures. Because Amigo allows the physician to operate all catheter function outside of the radiation field, operator exposure time was also evaluated. This is a nonrandomized, prospective clinical trial conducted at 1 site (identifier: NCT01834872). The study prospectively enrolled 50 consecutive patients (mean age 59  15 years, 72% men) with any type of arrhythmia (23 atrial fibrillation ablation, 12 common atrial flutters, 10 patients with other supraventricular tachycardia, 4 ventricular tachycardia, and 1 patient with palpitations with no arrhythmia induced) referred for catheter ablation, in which we used RCS. Fifty matched ablation procedures (mean age 57  14 years, 70% men) performed during the same time period, without RCS, were enrolled into the control group. Acute ablation success was 96% with RCS and 98% in the manual group. In only 2 cases, the physician switched to manual ablation (1 ventricular tachycardia and 1 accessory pathway) to complete the procedure. There were no complications related to the use of RCS. No differences were observed in total procedure time, total fluoroscopy time, or total radiofrequency delivery compared with the manual group. In procedures performed with RCS, the operator's fluoroscopy exposure time was reduced by 68  16%. In conclusion, arrhythmia ablation with RCS is safe and feasible. Furthermore, it significantly reduces operator's exposure to radiation.

UI  - 24433865
TI  - Elacytarabine in relapsed/refractory acute myeloid leukaemia: an evaluation of clinical efficacy, pharmacokinetics, cardiac safety and effects on lipid profile.
AB  - Elacytarabine is the elaidic acid ester derivative of cytarabine, designed to enter cells independently of nucleoside transporters. Effects of elacytarabine on QT interval, serum lipid profile and clinical activity were investigated in 43 relapsed/refractory AML patients. Mean maximum increase in corrected QT interval of 24(  29)ms occurred 48 h after elacytarabine infusion without associated arrhythmias or clinical symptoms. A non-clinically significant, elacytarabine exposure-dependent increase in cholesterol was caused by a cholesterol rich lipoprotein depleted of apolipoprotein B formed by infused phospholipids complexing cholesterol. Elacytarabine is clinically active in relapsed/refractory AML: overall response rate (CR + CRi) was 44% (16/36 with 7 non-evaluable patients) and adverse events were manageable. Clinical Trials.gov Identifier: NCT01258816.

UI  - 24425420
TI  - Selective complex fractionated atrial electrograms targeting for atrial fibrillation study (SELECT AF): a multicenter, randomized trial.
AB  - Continuous electric activity ablation+PVI result in a similar incidence of acute AF termination with significantly less radiofrequency time. However, incidence of repeat procedures and long-term recurrence of AF/atrial flutter/atrial tachycardia are significantly lower using generalized CFAE ablation+PVI. Clinical Trial Registration- URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00926783.

UI  - 24423282
TI  - Displacement of cortisol from human heart by acute administration of a mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist.
AB  - Human cardiac 11-HSD2 activity appears too low to inactivate cortisol to cortisone. Cortisol is displaced acutely from the myocardium by MR antagonists and may contribute to adverse MR activation in human heart.

UI  - 24420547
TI  - Vitamin D therapy to reduce blood pressure and left ventricular hypertrophy in resistant hypertension: randomized, controlled trial.
AB  - Low 25-hydroxyvitamin D levels are associated with higher prevalent blood pressure. We tested whether high-dose intermittent oral vitamin D therapy could reduce blood pressure and left ventricular mass in patients with hypertension resistant to conventional treatment. We conducted a parallel-group, double-blind, randomized placebo-controlled trial. Patients with supine office blood pressure >140/90 mm Hg on 3 antihypertensive agents received 100 000 U oral vitamin D3 or matching placebo every 2 months. Office and 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure, glucose, and cholesterol were measured at baseline, 2, 4, and 6 months; left ventricular mass index was measured by cardiac MRI on a subgroup at baseline and 6 months. The primary outcome was mean 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure at 6 months. A total of 68 participants were randomized, 34 in each group. Mean age was 63 (SD 11) years, mean baseline office blood pressure was 154/84 (13/10) mm Hg, and mean baseline 25-hydroxyvitamin D level was 42 (16) nmol/L. Treatment with vitamin D did not reduce 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure (adjusted treatment effects: systolic, +3 mm Hg; 95% confidence interval, -4 to +11; P=0.33; diastolic, -2 mm Hg; 95% confidence interval, -6 to +2; P=0.29); similar results were seen for office blood pressure. Left ventricular mass index was measured in a subgroup (n=25); no reduction was seen with vitamin D treatment (adjusted treatment effect, +4 g/m(2); 95% confidence interval, 0 to +7; P=0.04). There was no significant change in cholesterol or glucose levels. Thus, 6 months of intermittent, high-dose oral vitamin D3 did not reduce blood pressure or left ventricular mass in patients with resistant hypertension.

UI  - 24415751
TI  - Calcineurin-NFATc regulates type 2 inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor (InsP3R2) expression during cardiac remodeling.
AB  - In heart, the type 2 inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate receptor (InsP3R2) is the predominant isoform expressed and is localized in the nuclear membrane of ventricular myocytes. InsP3R2-mediated Ca(2+) release regulates hypertrophy specific gene expression by modulating CaMKII, histone deacetylase, and calcineurin-NFATc signaling pathways. InsP3R2 protein is a hypertrophy specific marker and is overexpressed in heart failure animal models and in humans. However, the regulation of InsP3R2 mRNA and protein expression during cardiac hypertrophy and heart failure is not known. Here we show the transcriptional regulation of the Itpr2 gene in adult cardiomyocytes. Our data demonstrates that, InsP3R2 mRNA and protein expression is activated by hypertrophic agonists and attenuated by InsP3R inhibitors 2-aminoethoxyldiphenyl borate and xestospongin-C. The Itpr2 promoter is regulated by the calcineurin-NFATc signaling pathway. NFATc1 regulates Itpr2 gene expression by directly binding to the Itpr2 promoter. The calcineurin-NFATc mediated up-regulation of the Itpr2 promoter was attenuated by cyclosporine-A. InsP3R2 mRNA and protein expression was up-regulated in calcineurin-A transgenic mice and in human heart failure. Collectively, our data suggests that ITPR2 and hypertrophy specific gene expression is regulated, in part, by a positive feedback regulation between InsP3R2 and calcineurin-NFATc signaling pathways.

UI  - 24412444
TI  - Resting heart rate as predictor for left ventricular dysfunction and heart failure: MESA (Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis).
AB  - Elevated resting heart rate was associated with increased risk for incident HF in asymptomatic participants in the MESA trial. Higher heart rate was related to development of regional and global LV dysfunction independent of subclinical atherosclerosis and coronary heart disease. (Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis [MESA]; NCT00005487).

UI  - 24406108
TI  - Comparison of endovascular versus epicardial lead placement for resynchronization therapy.
AB  - Cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) has been shown to improve survival and symptoms in patients with severe left ventricular (LV) dysfunction, congestive heart failure, and prolonged QRS duration. LV lead placement is achieved by placing the lead in the coronary sinus, an endovascular approach, or by a minimally invasive robotic-assisted thoracoscopic epicardial approach. There are no data directly comparing the 2 methods. Patients eligible for CRT were randomized to the endovascular and epicardial arms. Coronary sinus lead placement was achieved using the standard technique, and epicardial leads were placed using a minimally invasive robotic-assisted thoracoscopic approach. The primary end point was a decrease in LV end-systolic volume index at 6 months. The secondary end points included 30-day mortality rate, measures of clinical improvement, 1-year electrical lead performance, and 1-year survival rate. The relative improvement of LV end-systolic volume index from baseline to 6 months was similar between the arms (28.8% for the transvenous [n = 12] vs 30.5% for the epicardial (n = 9) arm, p = 0.93). There were no significant differences in the secondary end points between the 2 groups. In conclusion, there were no differences in echocardiographic and clinical outcomes comparing a conventional endovascular approach versus robotic-assisted surgical epicardial LV lead placement for CRT in patients with heart failure. Surgical approaches are still a viable alternative when a transvenous procedure has failed or is not technically feasible.

UI  - 24395977
TI  - Personalised external aortic root support (PEARS) in Marfan syndrome: analysis of 1-9year outcomes by intention-to-treat in a cohort of the first 30 consecutive patients to receive a novel tissue and valve-conserving procedure, compared with the published results of aortic root replacement.
AB  - The aortic valve, the root architecture, and the blood/endothelia interface are conserved. The perioperative burden is less and there has been freedom from aortic and valvular events. A prospective comparative study is planned.

UI  - 24385600
TI  - Efficacy of thyroid blockade on thyroid radioiodine uptake in 123I-mIBG imaging.
AB  - On the basis of 3 different methods for assessing thyroid uptake of (123)I, use of thyroid blockade pretreatment in (123)I-mIBG imaging prevents increase of thyroid activity over time because of uptake of unbound (123)I. In most subjects, there is a low level of (123)I-mIBG thyroid activity that probably represents specific uptake in sympathetic nerve terminals.

UI  - 24385534
TI  - A 1-year randomized controlled trial of deferasirox vs deferoxamine for myocardial iron removal in -thalassemia major (CORDELIA).
AB  - Randomized comparison data on the efficacy and safety of deferasirox for myocardial iron removal in transfusion dependent patients are lacking. CORDELIA was a prospective, randomized comparison of deferasirox (target dose 40 mg/kg per day) vs subcutaneous deferoxamine (50-60 mg/kg per day for 5-7 days/week) for myocardial iron removal in 197 -thalassemia major patients with myocardial siderosis (T2* 6-20 milliseconds) and no signs of cardiac dysfunction (mean age, 19.8 years). Primary objective was to demonstrate noninferiority of deferasirox for myocardial iron removal, assessed by changes in myocardial T2* after 1 year using a per-protocol analysis. Geometric mean (Gmean) myocardial T2* improved with deferasirox from 11.2 milliseconds at baseline to 12.6 milliseconds at 1 year (Gmeans ratio, 1.12) and with deferoxamine (11.6 milliseconds to 12.3 milliseconds; Gmeans ratio, 1.07). The between-arm Gmeans ratio was 1.056 (95% confidence interval [CI], 0.998, 1.133). The lower 95% CI boundary was greater than the prespecified margin of 0.9, establishing noninferiority of deferasirox vs deferoxamine (P = .057 for superiority of deferasirox). Left ventricular ejection fraction remained stable in both arms. Frequency of drug-related adverse events was comparable between deferasirox (35.4%) and deferoxamine (30.8%). CORDELIA demonstrated the noninferiority of deferasirox compared with deferoxamine for myocardial iron removal. This trial is registered at www.clinicaltrials.gov as #NCT00600938.

UI  - 24383370
TI  - Does the body mass index predict mortality after isolated aortic valve replacement?
AB  - 'Underweight' is an independent predictor for late mortality after AVR surgery. Morbid obesity did not prove to be predictive of a worse late survival.

UI  - 24374504
TI  - Evaluation of pulse pressure variation validity criteria in critically ill patients: a prospective observational multicentre point-prevalence study.
AB  - A very low percentage of patients satisfied all criteria for valid use of PP in the evaluation of fluid responsiveness. Physicians must consider limitations to the validity of PP before using this variable.

UI  - 24373138
TI  - Assessment of left ventricular volumes and primary mitral regurgitation severity by 2D echocardiography and cardiovascular magnetic resonance.
AB  - In moderate to severe primary mitral regurgitation without overt left ventricular dysfunction, 2DTTE significantly underestimates left ventricular remodelling in comparison to CMR. Measurement of the regurgitant orifice with planimetry by CMR shows good agreement with the PISA method by 2DTTE and thus may be a valuable alternative to assess mitral regurgitation severity.

UI  - 24371264
TI  - Remote ischemic preconditioning preserves mitochondrial function and influences myocardial microRNA expression in atrial myocardium during coronary bypass surgery.
AB  - http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT01308138.

UI  - 24370552
TI  - Permanent pacemaker implantation after transcatheter aortic valve implantation: impact on late clinical outcomes and left ventricular function.
AB  - The need for PPI was a frequent complication of transcatheter aortic valve implantation, but it was not associated with any increase in overall or cardiovascular death or rehospitalization for heart failure after a mean follow-up of 2 years. Indeed, 30-day PPI was a protective factor for the occurrence of unexpected (sudden or unknown) death. However, new PPI did have a negative effect on left ventricular function over time.

UI  - 24365774
TI  - Prognostic importance of pathophysiologic markers in patients with heart failure and preserved ejection fraction.
AB  - In patients with HFpEF, reduced LV compliance and RV remodeling are the strongest pathophysiologic predictors of adverse outcomes.

UI  - 24363357
TI  - Long-term mortality associated with left ventricular dysfunction in mitral regurgitation due to flail leaflets: a multicenter analysis.
AB  - EF is valuable in defining presence and severity of LV dysfunction in organic mitral regurgitation. Patients with EF <45% have severe LV dysfunction, catastrophic outcome under medical management, and should not be denied surgery. Although there is no survival gain with EF ranges >60%, with EF dropping <60%, mortality increases precipitously and prompt surgical referral is critical to outcome.

UI  - 24363354
TI  - Atrial fibrillation ablation outcome is predicted by left atrial remodeling on MRI.
AB  - Atrial SRM is identified on LGE-MRI, and extensive LGE (30% LA wall enhancement) predicts poor response to catheter ablation therapy for AF.

UI  - 24359544
TI  - Evaluation of current algorithms for segmentation of scar tissue from late gadolinium enhancement cardiovascular magnetic resonance of the left atrium: an open-access grand challenge.
AB  - The study concludes that currently no algorithm is deemed clearly better than others. There is scope for further algorithmic developments in LA fibrosis and scar quantification from LGE CMR images. Benchmarking of future scar segmentation algorithms is thus important. The proposed benchmarking framework is made available as open-source and new participants can evaluate their algorithms via a web-based interface.

UI  - 24347664
TI  - Left atrial volume and the benefit of cardiac resynchronization therapy in the MADIT-CRT trial.
AB  - URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00180271.

UI  - 24345391
TI  - Mitral valve prosthesis choice for patients aged 65 years and over in the UK. Are the guidelines being followed and does it matter?
AB  - Current guidelines concerning age and mitral valve prosthesis choice are not being followed for patients aged 65 years. With regards to in-hospital and mid-term mortality, this study demonstrates that there is no difference between prosthesis types.

UI  - 24342758
TI  - Comparison of the effectiveness of transcatheter aortic valve implantation in patients with stenotic bicuspid versus tricuspid aortic valves (from the German TAVI Registry).
AB  - Patients with bicuspid aortic valves (BAVs) are considered a relative contraindication to transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI). One of the main reasons is the presumed risk for residual aortic regurgitation (AR). However, case reports and small case series have suggested that TAVI can be successfully performed with acceptable clinical outcomes in high-risk patients with BAV. Within the large German TAVI Registry, we sought to evaluate TAVI in older high-risk patients with BAV. From January 2009 to June 2010, a total of 1,424 patients with severe aortic stenosis undergoing TAVI were prospectively enrolled into the German TAVI Registry. For the present analysis, patients with valve-in-valve procedures were excluded and those with BAV (n = 38, 3%) were compared with those with tricuspid aortic valve (TAV; n = 1357, 97%). Patient characteristics did not markedly differ and procedural success was very high in both groups. There was a higher rate of relevant AR (II) after TAVI among patients with BAV (25 vs 15%, p = 0.05), whereas pacemakers were more often implanted in patients with TAV (17% vs 35%, p = 0.02). Thirty-day mortality rate was similar in both cohorts (11% vs 11%). In a Cox proportional regression analysis, BAV was not associated with higher 1-year mortality rate (hazard ratio 0.64, 95% confidence interval 0.29 to 1.41). In selected patients with BAV, TAVI can be performed with a satisfactory clinical result. Although the risk for relevant AR seems to be greater among patients with BAV, 30-day and 1-year mortality rates were not elevated compared with patients with TAV.

UI  - 24335884
TI  - Valvular manifestations of human immunodeficiency virus infection--results from the prospective, multicenter HIV-HEART study.
AB  - Valvular heart diseases are common in HIV-infected patients. Fortunately, most of these disorders are mild today. We found an association between the onset of valvular heart disease and clinical stages of HIV infection.

UI  - 24334872
TI  - Evaluation of links between high-density lipoprotein genetics, functionality, and aortic valve stenosis risk in humans.
AB  - Results of the present study suggest that, based on HDL genetics and HDL functionality, HDL metabolism does not seem to predict the risk of AVS. Because of our limited sample size, additional studies are needed to confirm these findings.

UI  - 24334183
TI  - Pilot study of pioglitazone and exercise training effects on basal myocardial substrate metabolism and left ventricular function in HIV-positive individuals with metabolic complications.
AB  - PIO or EXS alone did not significantly increase basal myocardial insulin sensitivity or LV diastolic function in HIV+ individuals with peripheral metabolic complications.

UI  - 24333560
TI  - Clinical value of plasma pentraxin 3 levels for predicting cardiac troponin elevation after percutaneous coronary intervention.
AB  - Plasma PTX3 level may be a useful marker for predicting post-PCI cardiac cTnT elevation, which is associated with inflammatory status of culprit lesions.

UI  - 24333490
TI  - The effect of intermittent atrial tachyarrhythmia on heart failure or death in cardiac resynchronization therapy with defibrillator versus implantable cardioverter-defibrillator patients: a MADIT-CRT substudy (Multicenter Automatic Defibrillator Implantation Trial With Cardiac Resynchronization Therapy).
AB  - In the MADIT-CRT study, the clinical benefit of CRT-D in LBBB patients was not attenuated by prior history of IAT or by the development of in-trial atrial tachyarrhythmias. (MADIT-CRT: Multicenter Automatic Defibrillator Implantation Trial With Cardiac Resynchronization Therapy; NCT00180271).

UI  - 24331119
TI  - Evaluation of the right ventricle: comparison of gated blood-pool single photon electron computed tomography and echocardiography with cardiac magnetic resonance.
AB  - GBPS, both with MHI and QBS software, exhibited significant correlations with CMR for evaluation of the RV (volumes and decreased RVEF estimation). Among TTE's parameters, only FAC and MPI-TDI showed significant correlation with CMR with RVEF  45%.

UI  - 24326271
TI  - Influence of gender on clinical outcomes following transcatheter aortic valve implantation from the UK transcatheter aortic valve implantation registry and the National Institute for Cardiovascular Outcomes Research.
AB  - Gender differences exist in outcomes after percutaneous coronary intervention and coronary artery bypass graft surgery but have yet to be fully explored after transcatheter aortic valve implantation. We aimed to investigate gender differences after transcatheter aortic valve implantation in the UK National Institute for Cardiovascular Outcomes Research registry. A retrospective analysis was performed of Medtronic CoreValve and Edwards SAPIEN implantation in 1,627 patients (756 women) from January 2007 to December 2010. Men had more risk factors: poor left ventricular systolic function (11.9% vs 5.5%, p <0.001), 3-vessel disease (19.4% vs 9.2%, p <0.001), previous myocardial infarction (29.5% vs 13.0%, p <0.001), peripheral vascular disease (32.4% vs 23.3%, p <0.001), and higher logistic EuroSCORE (21.8  14.2% vs 21.0  13.4%, p = 0.046). Thirty-day mortality was 6.3% (confidence interval 4.3% to 7.9%) in women and 7.4% (5.6% to 9.2%) in men and at 1 year, 21.9% (18.7% to 25.1%) and 22.4% (19.4% to 25.4%), respectively. There was no mortality difference: p = 0.331 by log-rank test; hazard ratio for women 0.91 (0.75 to 1.10). Procedural success (96.6% in women vs 96.4% in men, p = 0.889) and 30-day cerebrovascular event rates (3.8% vs 3.7%, p = 0.962) did not differ. Women had more major vascular complications (7.5% vs 4.2%, p = 0.004) and less moderate or severe postprocedural aortic regurgitation (7.5% vs 12.5%, p = 0.001). In conclusion, despite a higher risk profile in men, there was no gender-related mortality difference; however, women had more major vascular complications and less postprocedural moderate or severe aortic regurgitation.

UI  - 24325351
TI  - Leukocytes and systemic inflammatory response syndrome as prognostic factors in pulmonary embolism patients.
AB  - Leukocytosis and SIRS are important factors in determining short-term outcomes in PE patients.

UI  - 24320176
TI  - Prospective registry of symptomatic severe aortic stenosis in octogenarians: a need for intervention.
AB  - Octogenarians with symptomatic severe AS are frequently managed conservatively. Planned conservative management is associated with a poor prognosis.

UI  - 24319042
TI  - Left atrial appendage occlusion in atrial fibrillation after intracranial hemorrhage.
AB  - This study provides Class III evidence that in patients with a history of previous ICH and AF, percutaneous LAAO is safe and feasible.

UI  - 24317704
TI  - A randomised placebo-controlled trial of early treatment of the patent ductus arteriosus.
AB  - Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry (ACTRN12608000295347).

UI  - 24315152
TI  - Does the amount of atrial mass reduction improve clinical outcomes after radiofrequency catheter ablation for long-standing persistent atrial fibrillation? Comparison between linear ablation and defragmentation.
AB  - Conduction block through linear lines+PVI was an efficient ablation strategy for L-PeAF, whereas the AMR amount did not influence clinical outcomes.

UI  - 24315151
TI  - Blood flow characteristics in the ascending aorta after aortic valve replacement--a pilot study using 4D-flow MRI.
AB  - Flow characteristics in the ascending aorta after AVR are different from native aortic valves and differ between various types of AVR.

UI  - 24303967
TI  - P-wave morphology is associated with echocardiographic response to cardiac resynchronization therapy in MADIT-CRT patients.
AB  - The presence of atypical P-wave morphology recorded is independently associated with a favorable echocardiographic cardiac remodeling response to CRT.

UI  - 24291282
TI  - Coxsackie and adenovirus receptor is a modifier of cardiac conduction and arrhythmia vulnerability in the setting of myocardial ischemia.
AB  - CAR is a novel modifier of ventricular conduction and arrhythmia vulnerability in the setting of myocardial ischemia. Genetic determinants of arrhythmia susceptibility (such as CAR) may constitute future targets for risk stratification of potentially lethal ventricular arrhythmias in patients with coronary artery disease.

UI  - 24290930
TI  - The dominant morphology of fractionated atrial electrograms has greater temporal stability in persistent as compared with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation.
AB  - In CFAE recordings, the DM parameter was found to have greater temporal morphologic variation in paroxysmal as compared with persistent AF data (p<0.001). In contrast, only moderate significance between paroxysmal versus persistent AF data was found when using the of CFE-mean and ICL parameters (p<0.05). The DM parameter may thus be useful as a new measure to discern both temporal and spatial variations in CFAE in paroxysmal versus persistent AF recordings.

UI  - 24290737
TI  - Cardiac repolarization with Gabapentin enacarbil in a randomized, double-blind, placebo- and active-controlled, crossover thorough QT/QTc study in healthy adults.
AB  - Single doses of GEn, up to 6000 mg, had no effect on cardiac repolarization in this thorough-QT study and are unlikely to cause clinically relevant QT prolongation in clinical use. Assay sensitivity was confirmed with moxifloxacin as an active control. ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT01516372.

UI  - 24290716
TI  - The use of the Berlin Heart EXCOR in patients with functional single ventricle.
AB  - The EXCOR Pediatric VAD can provide a bridge to transplant for children with SV anatomy or physiology, albeit less successfully than in children with BV. In this small series, results are better in patients with SCPC and TCPC. VAD support for patients with shunted sources of pulmonary blood flow should be applied with caution.

UI  - 24286591
TI  - Hypoxic exercise training improves cardiac/muscular hemodynamics and is associated with modulated circulating progenitor cells in sedentary men.
AB  - The HT regimen improves cardiac and muscular hemodynamic adaptations, possibly by promoting the mobilization/function of CPCs and the production of angiogenic factors.

UI  - 24281331
TI  - The echo score revisited: Impact of incorporating commissural morphology and leaflet displacement to the prediction of outcome for patients undergoing percutaneous mitral valvuloplasty.
AB  - A scoring system incorporating new quantitative echocardiographic parameters more accurately predicts outcome following PMV than existing models. Long-term post-PMV event-free survival was predicted by age, degree of mitral regurgitation, and postprocedural hemodynamic data.

UI  - 24254191
TI  - Aortic dilatation patterns and rates in adults with bicuspid aortic valves: a comparative study with Marfan syndrome and degenerative aortopathy.
AB  - In patients with BAV, tubular ascending aorta dilatation is the most common pattern and exhibits the fastest growing rate, irrespective of valve morphology and function. Dilatation of the Valsalva sinuses is less common and associated with typical BAV morphology and male gender. Aortic dilatation progresses equally fast in BAV (tubular segment) and MFS (Valsalva sinuses), but a significantly higher proportion of BAV patients does not progress at all, irrespective of BAV type. Baseline aortic diameter does not proportionally predict progression rate; systematic follow-up is therefore warranted in patients with BAV.

UI  - 24252943
TI  - The significance of natriuretic peptide in treatment of pulmonary hypertension after mitral valve replacement.
AB  - Both brain natriuretic peptide and prostaglandin E1 can effectively reduce pulmonary hypertension; however, natriuretic peptide has a slower and milder efficacy. The effects of these 2 drugs in reducing thepulmonary arterial pressure may be mediated through different pathways.

UI  - 24251308
TI  - The effect of right ventricle pacemaker lead position on diastolic function in patients with preserved left ventricle ejection fraction.
AB  - Our aim was to analyze any changes during diastole in patients with normal left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF), after pacemaker stimulation from the right ventricular outflow tract (RVOT) and right ventricular apex (RVA) lead position. This was a prospective, randomized, follow up study, which lasted for 12 months. Our research included 132 consecutive patients who were implanted with a permanent antibradycardiac pacemaker. Regarding the right ventricle lead position the patients were divided into two groups: The RVOT group--71 patients, with right ventricle outflow tract lead position and the RVA group--61 patients, with right ventricle apex lead position. We measured LVEF and diastolic parameters: peak filling ratio and time to peak filling ratio obtained by radionuclide ventriculography (RNV). The LVEF and various diastolic parameters and left atrial diameter were obtained by echocardiography. Based on the values of deceleration time of early diastolic filling (DTE), and other diastolic parameters like left atrial diameter, all the patients were classified into three degrees of diastolic dysfunction. Our results showed that there was no group difference in distribution of gender, age, body mass index (BMI), VVI to DDD pacemakers implantation ratio, RNV parameters (LVEF, peak filling rate (PFR), time to PFR (TPFR)) and echocardiography parameters: LVEF and parameters of diastolic dysfunction. After 12 months of pacemaker stimulation, LVEF by RNV remained the same in the RVOT group 51.3115.80% (P=0.75), and also in the RVA group 53.836.57%, (P=0.19). In the RVOT group the PFR was highly lower and this finding was significant (P=0.01), while TPFR was also significantly lower (P=0.03). By dividing the patients according to the degree of diastolic dysfunction we found that most patients in both groups at enrollment had a second degree diastolic dysfunction. In both groups diastolic dysfunction increased, the number of patients with third degree diastolic dysfunction increased, and the number of patients with second degree diastolic dysfunction decreased, however, the worsening of diastolic function was significant only in the RVOT group. In conclusion, pacemaker stimulation from RVOT, but not in RVA, leads to progression of diastolic dysfunction in patients with preserved LVEF. This negative effect of pacemaker stimulation from RVOT on diastolic parameters was confirmed by two independent methods, RNV and echocardiography.

UI  - 24249797
TI  - Clinical interpretation standards and quality assurance for the multicenter PET/CT trial rubidium-ARMI.
AB  - (82)Rb myocardial perfusion imaging protocols were implemented with highly repeatable interpretation in centers using 3D PET/CT technology, through an effective standardization and quality assurance program. Site scoring of (82)Rb PET myocardial perfusion imaging scans was found to be in good agreement with core lab standards, suggesting that the data from these centers may be combined for analysis of the rubidium-ARMI endpoints.

UI  - 24249712
TI  - Myocardial damage detected by late gadolinium enhancement cardiovascular magnetic resonance is associated with subsequent hospitalization for heart failure.
AB  - The presence and extent of LGE is associated with vulnerability for HHF, including higher risks of HHF across the spectrum of heart failure stage and LVEF. Even when LVEF is severely decreased, those without LGE appear to fare reasonably well. LGE may enhance risk stratification for HHF and may enhance both clinical and research efforts to reduce HHF through targeted treatment.

UI  - 24249049
TI  - Cardiac structure and function in heart failure with preserved ejection fraction: baseline findings from the echocardiographic study of the Treatment of Preserved Cardiac Function Heart Failure with an Aldosterone Antagonist trial.
AB  - URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00094302.

UI  - 24247761
TI  - Risk factor analysis of calcification in aortic and mitral valves in maintenance peritoneal dialysis patients.
AB  - The incidence of cardiac valve calcification in MPD patients is high, and the incidence of AVC is higher than MVC. Age, diabetes history, calcium-phosphorus product and hypo-prealbuminemia are independent risk factors for AVC, whereas age, calcium-phosphorus product and hypo-prealbuminemia are independent risk factors for MVC.

UI  - 24245543
TI  - Mitral-valve repair versus replacement for severe ischemic mitral regurgitation.
AB  - We observed no significant difference in left ventricular reverse remodeling or survival at 12 months between patients who underwent mitral-valve repair and those who underwent mitral-valve replacement. Replacement provided a more durable correction of mitral regurgitation, but there was no significant between-group difference in clinical outcomes. (Funded by the National Institutes of Health and the Canadian Institutes of Health; ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00807040.).

UI  - 24242823
TI  - Hemodynamic and echocardiographic profiles in African American compared with White offspring of hypertensive parents: the HyperGEN study.
AB  - This study shows that ethnic differences in hemodynamic and echocardiographic profiles exist in a large, population-based cohort of nonhypertensive offspring of hypertensive parents.

UI  - 24240932
TI  - Effect of weight reduction and cardiometabolic risk factor management on symptom burden and severity in patients with atrial fibrillation: a randomized clinical trial.
AB  - anzctr.org.au Identifier: ACTRN12610000497000.

UI  - 24238792
TI  - Evaluation of the effect of Naloxegol on cardiac repolarization: a randomized, placebo- and positive-controlled crossover thorough QT/QTc study in healthy volunteers.
AB  - Naloxegol at 25 and 150 mg was not associated with QT/QTc interval prolongation in these healthy men, and at the proposed therapeutic dose of 25 mg/d, naloxegol is not expected to have a clinically relevant effect on cardiac repolarization in patients with OIC. ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT01325415.

UI  - 24228851
TI  - Large-scale cell production of stem cells for clinical application using the automated cell processing machine.
AB  - An automated cell-processing machine will play important roles in cell therapy and have widespread use from application in multicenter trials to provision of off-the-shelf cell products.

UI  - 24224437
TI  - Penetrating cardiac injuries in Belgium: 20 years of experience in university hospitals in Brussels.
AB  - Penetrating cardiac wounds are relatively rare in Belgium, which is mainly due to stabs and with consequent mortality. The implementation of clear guidelines is necessary to improve survival.

UI  - 24223740
TI  - Comparison of oral paracetamol versus ibuprofen in premature infants with patent ductus arteriosus: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - ChiCTR.org ChiCTR-TRC-12002177.

UI  - 24217559
TI  - Left and right ventricular structure and function in subclinical hypothyroidism: the effects of one-year levothyroxine treatment.
AB  - Subclinical hypothyroidism significantly affected LV and RV structure, systolic, diastolic and global function, and LV and RV mechanics. Levothyroxine replacement therapy significantly improved cardiac structure, function, and mechanics in the SHT patients.

UI  - 24217306
TI  - Prevalence and significance of early repolarisation in a black African population: data of 246 individuals with cardiovascular morbidity.
AB  - Early repolarisation is frequent in black Africans, especially in the setting of cardiovascular morbidity. Early repolarisation may be associated with a past history of syncope, especially the notched pattern.

UI  - 24214886
TI  - Evaluation of vegetation size and its relationship with embolism in infective endocarditis: a real-time 3-dimensional transesophageal echocardiography study.
AB  - RT3DTEE is a feasible technique for the analysis of vegetation morphology and size that may overcome the shortcoming of 2DTEE, leading to a better prediction of the embolism risk in patients with infective endocarditis.

UI  - 24211506
TI  - Prospective multicenter evaluation of the direct flow medical transcatheter aortic valve.
AB  - The present study demonstrates the safety and efficacy of the DFM system in surgical high risk patients with severe aortic stenosis and complex anatomy aortic regurgitation was less than moderate in 99% of patients.

UI  - 24210674
TI  - Relation of thoracic aortic distensibility to left ventricular area (from the Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis [MESA]).
AB  - Decreased arterial compliance is an early manifestation of adverse structural and functional changes within the vessel wall. Its correlation with left ventricular (LV) area on computed tomography, a marker of LV remodeling, has not been well demonstrated. The aim of this study was to test the hypothesis that decreasing aortic compliance and increasing arterial stiffness are independently associated with increased LV area. The study population consisted of 3,540 patients (mean age 61  10 years, 46% men) from the Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis (MESA) who underwent aortic distensibility (AD) assessment on magnetic resonance imaging and LV area measurement on computed tomography (adjusted to body surface area). Multivariate logistic regression was performed to assess the association between body surface area-normalized LV area >75th percentile and AD after adjusting for baseline clinical, historical, and imaging covariates. Mean LV area index was 2,153 cm(2), and mean AD was 1.84  10(3) mm Hg(-1). Subjects in the lowest AD quartile were older, with higher prevalence rates of hypertension, diabetes, and hypercholesterolemia (p <0.05 for all comparisons). Using multivariate linear regression adjusting for demographics, traditional risk factors, coronary artery calcium, and C-reactive protein, each SD decrease was associated with an 18-cm(2) increase in LV area. In addition, decreasing AD quartiles were independently associated with increasing LV area index, defined as >75th percentile. In conclusion, in this multiethnic cohort, reduced AD was associated with increased LV area. Longitudinal studies are needed to determine if decreased distensibility precedes and directly influences increased LV area.

UI  - 24202179
TI  - A haplotype of angiotensin receptor type 1 associated with human hypertension increases blood pressure in transgenic mice.
AB  - The renin-angiotensin system plays an important role in the regulation of blood pressure via angiotensin II and the angiotensin II receptor type 1 (AT1R). Human AT1R gene promoter has four SNPs: T/A at -777, T/G at -680, A/C at -214, and A/G at -119, that are in linkage disequilibrium. Variants -777T, -680T, -214A, and -119A almost always occur together (named haplotype I), and variants -777A, -680G, -214C, and -119G almost always occur together (named haplotype II) in Caucasian subjects. Genomic DNA analyses, from 388 normotensive and 374 hypertensive subjects, link haplotype I of the human AT1R (hAT1R) gene with hypertension in Caucasians (p = 0.004, (2) = 8.46). Our results show increased basal promoter activity of the hAT1R gene in cells (H295R and A7r5) transfected with reporter construct containing haplotype I. We also show increased binding of the transcription factor, USF2, to oligonucleotide containing nucleoside -214A as opposed to -214C. Recombineering of a 166-kb bacterial artificial chromosome containing 68 kb of the 5'-flanking region, 45 kb of the coding sequence, and 53 kb of the 3'-flanking region of the hAT1R gene was employed to generate transgenic mice with either haplotype. We show that (a) hAT1R mRNA level is increased in the kidney and heart of transgenic mice containing haplotype I as compared with haplotype II; (b) USF2 binds more strongly to the chromatin obtained from the kidney of transgenic mice containing haplotype I as compared with haplotype II; and (c) blood pressure and oxidative stress are increased in transgenic mice containing haplotype I as compared with haplotype II.

UI  - 24189518
TI  - A novel calcium scoring system accurately predicts likelihood and location of post-TAVI paravalvular leak.
AB  - The present study shows that a aortic sclerosis score constructed by TOE enables prediction of postoperative PVL and moreover, the localisation of PVL after TAVI correlates with the corresponding preoperative amount of sclerosis for each cusp.

UI  - 24184245
TI  - Impaired systolic function by strain imaging in heart failure with preserved ejection fraction.
AB  - Strain imaging detects impaired systolic function despite preserved global LVEF in HFpEF that may contribute to the pathophysiology of the HFpEF syndrome. (LCZ696 Compared to Valsartan in Patients With Chronic Heart Failure and Preserved Left-ventricular Ejection Fraction; NCT00887588).

UI  - 24183906
TI  - Reoperative aortic valve replacement in the octogenarians-minimally invasive technique in the era of transcatheter valve replacement.
AB  - Octogenarians who undergo re-AVR are thought to be high-risk surgical candidates. The present single-center series revealed acceptable in-hospital outcomes and operative mortality. Mre-AVR was associated with better survival compared with Fre-AVR and might benefit this population.

UI  - 24176448
TI  - Prognostic implications of left ventricular end-diastolic pressure during primary percutaneous coronary intervention for ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction: Findings from the Assessment of Pexelizumab in Acute Myocardial Infarction study.
AB  - Left ventricular end-diastolic pressure measured during primary PCI for STEMI is an independent predictor of inhospital and longer term cardiovascular outcomes. Measuring LVEDP may be useful to stratify patient risk and guide postinfarct treatment.

UI  - 24176073
TI  - Relation of left ventricular mass at age 23 to 35 years to global left ventricular systolic function 20 years later (from the Coronary Artery Risk Development in Young Adults study).
AB  - Left ventricular (LV) mass and the LV ejection fraction (LVEF) are major independent predictors of future cardiovascular disease. The association of LV mass with the future LVEF in younger populations has not been studied. The aim of this study was to investigate the relation of LV mass index (LVMI) at ages 23 to 35 years to LV function after 20 years of follow-up in the Coronary Artery Risk Development in Young Adults (CARDIA) study. CARDIA is a longitudinal study that enrolled young adults in 1985 and 1986. In this study, participants with echocardiographic examinations at years 5 and 25 were included. LVMI and the LVEF were assessed using M-mode echocardiography at year 5 and using M-mode and 2-dimensional imaging at year 25. Statistical analytic models assessed the correlation between LVMI and LV functional parameters cross-sectionally and longitudinally. A total of 2,339 participants were included. The mean LVEF at year 25 was 62%. Although there was no cross-sectional correlation between LVMI and the LVEF at year 5, there was a small but statistically significant negative correlation between LVMI at year 5 and the LVEF 20 years later (r = -0.10, p <0.0001); this inverse association persisted for LVMI in the multivariate model. High LVMI was an independent predictor of systolic dysfunction (LVEF <50%) 20 years later (odds ratio 1.46, p = 0.0018). In conclusion, LVMI in young adulthood in association with chronic risk exposure affects systolic function in middle age; the antecedents of heart failure may occur at younger ages than previously thought.

UI  - 24172265
TI  - Systemic and myocardial inflammatory response in coronary artery bypass graft surgery with miniaturized extracorporeal circulation: differences with a standard circuit and off-pump technique in a randomized clinical trial.
AB  - Inflammatory response and hemodilution are the main drawbacks of extracorporeal circulation. We hypothesize that the use of miniaturized extracorporeal circulation (MECC) might lower the systemic and myocardial inflammatory patterns compared with a standard system (SECC) and off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting (OPCABG). Sixty-one patients undergoing isolated coronary artery bypass graft were prospectively randomized to MECC (n = 19), SECC (n = 20), or OPCABG (n = 22). Blood samples were collected from radial artery and coronary sinus to analyze blood lactate, hemodilution, and markers for inflammation and endothelial activation such as tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-, interleukin-6, monocyte chemotactic protein-1, and E-selectin. No differences were observed in early clinical outcome. Interleukin -6 levels increased in every group during and after cardiac surgery, whereas TNF- values grew in the SECC group (p = 0.05). E-selectin systemic values decreased during and after operation (p = 0.001) in every group. Monocyte chemotactic protein-1 systemic and cardiac levels raised only in SECC group (p = 0.014). In conclusion, MECC is comparable to SECC and OPCABG in the clinical outcome of low-risk patients, and it might be extensively used with no additional intraoperative risk. The analysis of the inflammatory patterns of endothelial activation shows MECC as effective as OPCABG, suggesting further studies to clarify MECC recommendation in high-risk patients.

UI  - 24172078
TI  - Clinical and echocardiographic correlates of mortality in medically treated patients with severe isolated aortic stenosis and normal left ventricular ejection fraction.
AB  - In medically treated patients with severe isolated AS and preserved LVEF, older age, history of hypertension, and echo-Doppler variables reflecting LV diastolic dysfunction are independent predictors of death.

UI  - 24169536
TI  - Prognostic value of NT-proBNP in patients with systemic morphological right ventricles: a single-centre experience.
AB  - In systemic right ventricles, NT-proBNP is a useful risk predictor for all causes of hospitalisation and, in particular, for heart failure, transplantation and death. It therefore might be a useful tool for risk assessment in this patient population.

UI  - 24169014
TI  - Usefulness of echocardiographically guided left ventricular lead placement for cardiac resynchronization therapy in patients with intermediate QRS width and non-left bundle branch block morphology.
AB  - The current guidelines most strongly support cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) for patients with heart failure with a QRS width of 150 ms and left bundle branch block (LBBB). Our objective was to assess the potential benefit of echocardiographically guided left ventricular (LV) lead positioning for patients with a QRS width <150 ms or non-LBBB as a substudy of the Speckle Tracking Assisted Resynchronization Therapy for Electrode Region (STARTER) prospective, randomized controlled trial. The STARTER trial randomized 187 patients with heart failure, a QRS of 120 ms, and ejection fraction of 35% to LV lead guided to the site of latest mechanical activation by speckle tracking radial strain versus routine implantation. The predefined primary end point was heart failure hospitalization or death within 2 years. This substudy included 151 CRT patients with matching echocardiographic and LV lead position data and complete follow-up data. Patients with a QRS width of 120 to 149 ms or non-LBBB and LV lead concordant or adjacent to the site of latest mechanical activation had favorable outcomes after CRT similar to those with LBBB or a QRS width of 150 ms. In contrast, patients with a QRS of 120 to 149 ms or non-LBBB and remote LV leads had unfavorable outcomes (hazard ratio 5.45, 95% confidence interval 2.36 to 12.6, p <0.001, and hazard ratio 4.92, 95% confidence interval 2.12 to 11.39, p <0.001, respectively, with significant interaction after adjusting for baseline variables, p = 0.038 and p = 0.008). In conclusion, LV lead positioning with respect to the echocardiographic site of latest activation was significantly associated with more favorable clinical outcomes in patients with a QRS duration <150 ms and/or non-LBBB. Additional prospective study is warranted.

UI  - 24163067
TI  - Electromagnetic interference with implantable cardioverter-defibrillators at power frequency: an in vivo study.
AB  - http://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT01626261. Unique identifier: NCT01626261.

UI  - 24162832
TI  - Impact of local ablation on interconnected channels within ventricular scar: mechanistic implications for substrate modification.
AB  - Ablation can eliminate neighboring and remote areas of slow conduction, suggesting that channels within scar are frequently interconnected. This is the first mechanistic demonstration to show that ablation can modify electrical activity in regions of scar outside of the known radius of an radiofrequency lesion. The targeting of relatively earlier LPs can expedite scar homogenization without the need for extensive ablation of all LPs.

UI  - 24161218
TI  - Feeding dysfunction in children with single ventricle following staged palliation.
AB  - Feeding dysfunction is common in children with single ventricle defects, occurring in 50% of our cohort. Feeding dysfunction is associated with worse growth measures. Current gastrostomy tube use and a single parent household were identified as independent risk factors for feeding dysfunction.

UI  - 24160570
TI  - The relationship between mitral annular systolic velocity and ejection fraction in patients with preserved global systolic function of the left ventricle.
AB  - The assessment of Sm(avg) could be used as an alternative to EF. This approach may be useful especially when the IQ is poor. The method maintains high accuracy and reproducibility in prediction of the EF.

UI  - 24156966
TI  - Remote ischemic post-conditioning of the lower limb during primary percutaneous coronary intervention safely reduces enzymatic infarct size in anterior myocardial infarction: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - In patients with anterior ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction, RIPC at the time of pPCI reduced enzymatic infarct size and was also associated with an improvement of T2-weighted edema volume and ST-segment resolution >50%. (Remote Postconditioning in Patients With Acute Myocardial Infarction Treated by Primary Percutaneous Coronary Intervention [PCI] [RemPostCon]; NCT00865722).

UI  - 24153416
TI  - Diagnosis of neurally mediated syncope at initial evaluation and with tilt table testing compared with that revealed by prolonged ECG monitoring. An analysis from the Third International Study on Syncope of Uncertain Etiology (ISSUE-3).
AB  - ILR findings showed results other than NMS in a small, although non-negligible, number of patients older than 40 years. TT was unable to discriminate between presumed NMS and non-NMS with the exception of an asystolic response which was highly specific.

UI  - 24152861
TI  - Impact of preoperative moderate/severe mitral regurgitation on 2-year outcome after transcatheter and surgical aortic valve replacement: insight from the Placement of Aortic Transcatheter Valve (PARTNER) Trial Cohort A.
AB  - http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00530894.

UI  - 24152724
TI  - Asymmetry of the variability of heart rate and conduction time between atria and ventricles.
AB  - In addition to heart rate asymmetry (VV interval), the conduction from the atria, through the atrioventricular node, His-Purkinje system to ventricles shows asymmetric properties in 1-min tracings.

UI  - 24151766
TI  - Presence of valvular calcification predicts the response to cinacalcet: data from the ADVANCE study.
AB  - The study findings suggest that CVC is a predictor of CAC progression and, potentially, of greater cardiovascular vulnerability. Treatment with cinacalcet combined with low doses of vitamin D slowed the progression of CAC compared to therapy using larger, varying doses of vitamin D.

UI  - 24148778
TI  - Multidetector CT predictors of prosthesis-patient mismatch in transcatheter aortic valve replacement.
AB  - PPM is frequent after TAVR. Appropriate annular oversizing does not reduce the rate or severity of PPM. Patient annulus size mismatch, identified by indexed MDCT annular area, is a significant predictor of PPM.

UI  - 24140209
TI  - Long-term clinical outcomes 15 years after aortic valve replacement with the Freestyle stentless aortic bioprosthesis.
AB  - In this long-term, multicenter, observational study, the Freestyle stentless aortic root bioprosthesis offered good clinical outcomes in terms of survival, freedom from valve-related mortality, freedom from reoperation, and freedom from structural valve deterioration. The Freestyle valve is a viable option for use in patients undergoing bioprosthetic aortic valve replacement and for anticipated desire for long-term durability.

UI  - 24132734
TI  - Predictors of disease progression in pediatric dilated cardiomyopathy.
AB  - URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00123071.

UI  - 24132714
TI  - Poorer right ventricular systolic function and exercise capacity in women after repair of tetralogy of fallot: a sex comparison of standard deviation scores based on sex-specific reference values in healthy control subjects.
AB  - Relative to their respective sex-specific healthy control subjects, derived standard deviation scores in repaired tetralogy of Fallot suggest that women perform poorer than men in terms of right ventricular systolic function as tested by cardiac magnetic resonance and exercise capacity. This effect cannot be explained by selection bias. Further outcome data are required from longitudinal cohort studies.

UI  - 24030420
TI  - Comparison of transendocardial and intracoronary CD34+ cell transplantation in patients with nonischemic dilated cardiomyopathy.
AB  - http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT01350310.

UI  - 24130190
TI  - Melusin protects from cardiac rupture and improves functional remodelling after myocardial infarction.
AB  - Consistent with its function as a chaperone protein, melusin overexpression exerts a dual protective action following MI reducing an array of maladaptive processes. In the early phase after MI, reduced inflammation and myocyte remodelling protect against cardiac rupture. Chronically, reduced myocyte loss and matrix remodelling, with preserved myocyte contractility, confer adaptive LV remodelling.

UI  - 24130088
TI  - Long-term follow-up after autologous skeletal myoblast transplantation in ischaemic heart disease.
AB  - Our long-term data confirm the findings of the MAGIC study. The LV function did not improve, but the long-term LV volumes in the high-dosage group were reduced. During the follow-up, there were also no additional arrhythmogenic incidences. Our data could imply that CABG in combination with ASM-Tx is safe and has beneficial therapeutic effects in the long-term. However, due to the small patient number, the clinical impact is limited.

UI  - 24130005
TI  - Cardiovascular effects of 1 year of alagebrium and endurance exercise training in healthy older individuals.
AB  - Alagebrium had no effect on hemodynamics, LV geometry, or exercise capacity in healthy, previously sedentary seniors. However, it did show a modestly favorable effect on age-associated LV stiffening. CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION- URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT01014572.

UI  - 24128731
TI  - The Ibero-American transcatheter aortic valve implantation registry with the CoreValve prosthesis. Early and long-term results.
AB  - Transcatheter aortic valve implantation constitutes a safe and viable therapeutic option for high operative risk patients with severe aortic stenosis. Long-term prognosis is conditioned by associate comorbidities.

UI  - 24125672
TI  - [Clinical application of multi-slice computed tomography angiography low-dose scan in pulmonary veins and left atrium].
AB  - On the premise that the image quality confirmed to the clinical diagnosis, the low dose scan in pulmonary veins and left atrium SCTA can obviously reduce radiation dose, and it had important clinical significance.

UI  - 24125091
TI  - Aortic valve replacement after previous heart surgery in high-risk patients: transapical aortic valve implantation versus conventional aortic valve replacement-a risk-adjusted and propensity score-based analysis.
AB  - Redo-AVR can be performed with acceptable results in high-risk patients and still serves as the reference standard. Reoperative valve surgery by TA-AVI is feasible and results in comparable short- and mid-term survival.

UI  - 24120125
TI  - Less invasive versus conventional heart valve surgery in patients withsevere heart failure.
AB  - In selected patients with severe heart failure, less-invasive valve surgery is a viable option, yielding at least equivalent efficiency, safety, and effectiveness to complete sternotomy. However, achieving these outcomes requires surgeons experienced in less-invasive surgery.

UI  - 24117856
TI  - Quality of life and functional capacity after long-term right ventricular pacing in pediatrics and young adults with congenital atrioventricular block.
AB  - Chronic RV pacing did not affect the HRQoL and physical capacity of pediatrics and young subjects. Female gender, ventricular function, and cardiovascular drugs were associated with lower HRQoL scores. Older subjects walked shorter distances in the 6MWDT, as well as subjects who were taking cardiovascular drugs.

UI  - 24113850
TI  - Immediate and medium-term outcomes of cryoballoon-based pulmonary vein isolation in patients with paroxysmal and persistent atrial fibrillation: single-centre experience.
AB  - Our results showed that AF ablation with cryoballoon is effective and safe. Non-paroxysmal AF, duration of AF, smoking, BMI, LA diameter and early recurrence were found to be the most powerful predictors and could be helpful to select patients for appropriate therapeutic strategy.

UI  - 24113022
TI  - Hemodynamic outcomes of geometric ring annuloplasty for aortic valve repair: a 4-center pilot trial.
AB  - Geometric ring annuloplasty facilitated aortic valve repair, allowing more precise reconstruction of leaflet defects. Aortic insufficiency reduction and systolic gradients were excellent, and expansion of valve reconstruction into broader categories of aortic valve disease seems indicated.

UI  - 24108526
TI  - Effect of heart rate control with esmolol on hemodynamic and clinical outcomes in patients with septic shock: a randomized clinical trial.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT01231698.

UI  - 24107588
TI  - Nitroxyl (HNO): A novel approach for the acute treatment of heart failure.
AB  - URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifiers: NCT01096043, NCT01092325.

UI  - 24107361
TI  - Human cardiac stem cells with reduced notch signaling show enhanced therapeutic potential in a rat acute infarction model.
AB  - CSCs cultured with reduced Notch signaling showed better cardiomyogenic differentiation and therapeutic potentials in a rat AMI model. Thus, reducing Notch signaling is important when culturing CSCs for clinical applications.

UI  - 24102870
TI  - Correlation between myocardial fibrosis and restrictive cardiac physiology in patients undergoing retransplantation.
AB  - After cardiac transplant, there is often development of restrictive cardiac physiology. Little is known about the factors that contribute to this physiology and its correlation with pathology. Heart retransplantation provides a valuable opportunity to further understand this relationship. In this study, we investigated the correlation of myocardial fibrosis and restrictive physiology, and possible risk factors utilizing data from all retransplants at our center. A retrospective review of the 30 patients who underwent retransplantation at our institution between 1994 and 2004 was performed. Hemodynamic and imaging data were reviewed for the presence of restrictive physiology. Pathology reports were reviewed for the presence of myocardial fibrosis in the explanted hearts. The cohort with restrictive physiology preceding redo heart transplant had significantly more patients exhibiting myocardial fibrosis compared with the non-restrictive physiology group (94.1% vs. 15.4%, p < 0.001). We found no difference in the immunosuppressive regimen, history of rejection, and reason for transplant. In our study, we observed that myocardial fibrosis is an important contributor to the development of restrictive physiology. Further work needs to be done for risk stratification and the mechanism of fibrosis development.

UI  - 24102800
TI  - Increased epicardial adipose tissue thickness as a predictor for hypertension: a cross-sectional observational study.
AB  - The aim of the study was to determine whether epicardial adipose tissue thickness (EAT), a new cardiometabolic risk factor, is associated with essential hypertension. The sample included 127 asymptomatic patients with one or more cardiovascular risk factors consecutively referred for cardiac computed tomography angiography. Data were collected retrospectively and compared between hypertensive (n=39) and normotensive (n=88) patients. The hypertensive patients had a significantly higher mean EAT thickness than the normotensive group (2.811.6mm vs 2.071.43mm; P=.011) and a significantly elevated mean coronary artery calcium score (316.8512.6 vs 108.73215; P=.0257). The odds ratio for a patient with tissue thickness 2.4mm having hypertension was 1.396 (95% confidence interval, 1.033-1.922). Factors independently associated with hypertension were body mass index, low-density lipoprotein, and age. A model score was developed using the logistic regression coefficients for calculation of individual risk. Hypertensive patients have significantly higher than normal EAT thickness. Epicardial adipose tissue thickness may serve as a risk indicator for hypertension and cardiovascular morbidity.

UI  - 24100095
TI  - Mitral procedure selection in patients on dialysis: does mitral repair influence outcomes?
AB  - Dialysis patients undergo mitral repair less frequently, although repair success is equally likely when attempted among dialysis versus nondialysis patients. Dialysis-dependent renal failure is associated strongly with early mortality and major morbidity. However, procedure selection (repair vs replacement) does not appear to have a clinically meaningful impact on these short-term outcomes.

UI  - 24097422
TI  - Multicenter study comparing shunt type in the norwood procedure for single-ventricle lesions: three-dimensional echocardiographic analysis.
AB  - We found no statistically significant differences between study groups in 3-dimensional echocardiography measures of RV size and function, or magnitude of tricuspid regurgitation. Volume unloading was seen after stage II, as expected, but ejection fraction did not improve. This study provides insights into the remodeling of the operated univentricular RV in infancy.

UI  - 24096727
TI  - Traumatic tricuspid valve detachment from annulus diagnosed on 3-D transesophageal echocardiography.
AB  - 

UI  - 24092385
TI  - Cardiac response to early conversion from calcineurin inhibitor to everolimus in renal transplant recipients: an echocardiographic substudy of the randomized controlled CENTRAL trial.
AB  - Early conversion from CsA-based to everolimus-based immunosuppressive treatment in de novo renal transplant recipients caused marginal changes in LV diastolic function but no effect on LV systolic function or LV mass.

UI  - 24088530
TI  - Interplay between mitral regurgitation and transcatheter aortic valve replacement with the CoreValve Revalving System: a multicenter registry.
AB  - Baseline MR greater than mild is associated with higher mortality after CoreValve Revalving System-TAVR. A significant improvement in MR was more likely in patients with functional MR and without severe pulmonary hypertension or atrial fibrillation. The improvement in MR did not independently predict mortality.

UI  - 24088304
TI  - Dilated cardiomyopathy-associated FHOD3 variant impairs the ability to induce activation of transcription factor serum response factor.
AB  - The DCM-associated FHOD3 variant may cause DCM by interfering with actin filament assembly.

UI  - 24087829
TI  - Mitral valve repair versus replacement for moderate-to-severe mitral regurgitation in patients undergoing concomitant aortic valve replacement.
AB  - Although the outcomes of either mitral valve repair or replacement for moderate-to-severe mitral regurgitation in patients undergoing concomitant aortic valve replacement show no statistical significance in terms of long-term survival and valve-related event rates, DVR seems more hazardous than AVR plus MVr based on the estimated HR in terms of survival.

UI  - 24083804
TI  - Rationale and design of a randomized trial on the impact of aldosterone antagonism on cardiac structure and function in diabetic cardiomyopathy.
AB  - ACTRN12610001063000.

UI  - 24083422
TI  - Prognostic implications of changes in cardiac troponin I levels in patients with non-ST elevation acute coronary syndrome.
AB  - The cTnI change is predictive for subsequent mortality in selected conservatively managed NSTE-ACS patients.

UI  - 24076529
TI  - Off-pump transapical implantation of artificial neo-chordae to correct mitral regurgitation: the TACT Trial (Transapical Artificial Chordae Tendinae) proof of concept.
AB  - Off-pump transapical implantation of artificial chordae to correct MR is technically safe and feasible; however, it yields further potential for improvement of efficacy and durability. (Safety and Performance Study of the NeoChord Device [TACT]; NCT01777815).

UI  - 24076446
TI  - Differential sequential septal pacing: a simple maneuver to differentiate nodal versus extranodal ventriculoatrial conduction.
AB  - Differential sequential pacing of the RV septum reliably distinguishes retrograde atrioventricular nodal conduction from AP conduction.

UI  - 24075564
TI  - Risk factors for prolonged length of stay after the stage 2 procedure in the single-ventricle reconstruction trial.
AB  - Norwood LOS, PA stenoses, and nonelective stage 2 procedure, but not shunt type, are independently associated with longer LOS. Nonelective stage 2 procedure, moderate or greater AVV regurgitation, and need for AVV repair are among the risk factors for death.

UI  - 24075465
TI  - Short-term reduction in intrinsic heart rate during biventricular pacing after cardiac surgery: a substudy of a randomized clinical trial.
AB  - These observations suggest that hemodynamic benefits of biventricular pacing 12 to 24 hours after cardiopulmonary bypass lead to withdrawal of sympathetic drive and decreased intrinsic heart rate. Depression of intrinsic rate increases the apparent benefit of atrial pacing in the chronically paced group but not in the control group. Additional study is needed to define clinical benefits of these effects.

UI  - 24074617
TI  - Assessment of left atrial function by full volume real-time three-dimensional echocardiography and left atrial tracking in essential hypertension patients with different patterns of left ventricular geometric models.
AB  - Left atrial booster pump function decreases in the eccentric hypertrophy pattern. Left atrial conduit function is unchanged in the normal pattern and the concentric remodelling pattern groups. RT-3DE and LAT technology can be used for quantitative evaluation of left atrial volume and function.

UI  - 24072489
TI  - Mitral valve repair using ePTFE sutures for ruptured mitral chordae tendineae: a computational simulation study.
AB  - Mitral valve (MV) repair using expanded polytetrafluoroethylene sutures is an established and preferred interventional method to resolve the complex pathophysiologic problems associated with chordal rupture. We developed a novel computational evaluation protocol to determine the effect of the artificial sutures on restoring MV function following valve repair. A virtual MV was created using three-dimensional echocardiographic data in a patient with ruptured mitral chordae tendineae (RMCT). Virtual repairs were designed by adding artificial sutures between the papillary muscles and the posterior leaflet where the native chordae were ruptured. Dynamic finite element simulations were performed to evaluate pre- and post-repair MV function. Abnormal posterior leaflet prolapse and mitral regurgitation was clearly demonstrated in the MV with ruptured chordae. Following virtual repair to reconstruct ruptured chordae, the severity of the posterior leaflet prolapse decreased and stress concentration was markedly reduced both in the leaflet tissue and the intact native chordae. Complete leaflet coaptation was restored when four or six sutures were utilized. Computational simulations provided quantitative information of functional improvement following MV repair. This novel simulation strategy may provide a powerful tool for evaluation and prediction of interventional treatment for RMCT.

UI  - 24071906
TI  - N-terminal pro-brain natriuretic peptide levels in monochorionic diamniotic twins with selective intrauterine growth restriction.
AB  - N-terminal pro-brain natriuretic peptide levels at birth are elevated in monochorionic diamniotic twins with selective intrauterine growth restriction.

UI  - 24068774
TI  - Prognostic value of preoperative right ventricular geometry and tricuspid valve tethering area in patients undergoing tricuspid annuloplasty.
AB  - The present study demonstrates that RV geometry dimensions, namely RV midcavity diameter and tricuspid valve tethering area, are important preoperative measures associated with adverse events in patients undergoing tricuspid annuloplasty.

UI  - 24065444
TI  - Risk of coronary artery compression among patients referred for transcatheter pulmonary valve implantation: a multicenter experience.
AB  - CA compression following TPV implantation can be catastrophic. CA compression was observed in 5% of patients during test balloon angioplasty. No patients in this study developed clinically apparent CA compression after TPV implantation. CA compression was significantly associated with the presence of abnormal CA anatomy, especially in patients with tetralogy of Fallot or transposition of the great arteries. Preimplantation coronary angiography with simultaneous test angioplasty is an important step to evaluate for the presence of CA compression during TPV implantation.

UI  - 24065423
TI  - The effect of leukocyte reduction filters on inflammatory mediator release during coronary artery bypass grafting.
AB  - With the use of leukocyte reduction filters, we found significantly lower beta-glucuronidase levels in arterial and coronary sinus blood samples. These findings seem to confirm reduced PMN activation and/or reduced myocardial infiltration by activated PMN. Plasma levels of lysozyme, a characteristic product of PMN degranulation, did not show significant differences between the study groups.

UI  - 24064318
TI  - Can we predict plan quality for external beam partial breast irradiation: results of a multicenter feasibility study (Trans Tasman Radiation Oncology Group Study 06.02).
AB  - Partial breast irradiation using 3-dimensional conformal RT was feasible within the study constraints. The ratio of planning target volume to ipsilateral whole-breast volume and the distance of surgical cavity from the heart were significant predictors of the quality of treatment plan for external beam PBI.

UI  - 24057341
TI  - Effects of tirofiban maintenance duration on myocardial perfusion defect severity in anterior myocardial infarction.
AB  - The use of tirofiban, when administered at a high bolus dose and maintained for 48 h, was safe and significantly reduced perfusion defect severity in patients with anterior STEMI presenting early after symptom onset and undergoing primary PCI.

UI  - 24057078
TI  - Should axis deviation or atrial enlargement be categorised as abnormal in young athletes? The athlete's electrocardiogram: time for re-appraisal of markers of pathology.
AB  - Isolated axis deviation and atrial enlargement comprise a high burden of Group 2 changes in athletes and do not predict underlying structural cardiac disease. Exclusion of these anomalies from current ESC guidelines would improve specificity and cost-effectiveness of pre-participation screening with ECG.

UI  - 24054920
TI  - Left Atrial Appendage Occlusion Study II (LAAOS II).
AB  - LAA occlusion can be safely performed at the time of cardiac surgery. A large trial to evaluate the clinical efficacy of LAA occlusion in patients undergoing cardiac surgery is possible in motivated centres with some modifications to the design of LAAOS II.

UI  - 24053647
TI  - Randomized trial of HTK versus warm blood cardioplegia for right ventricular protection in mitral surgery.
AB  - The one shot HTK solution offers inferior RV protection compared with WBC, mainly in patients with depressed pre-operative RV function. When adopting HTK cardioplegia the addition of topical cooling is strongly advised.

UI  - 24050721
TI  - Right and left ventricular function and myocardial scarring in adult patients with sickle cell disease: a comprehensive magnetic resonance assessment of hepatic and myocardial iron overload.
AB  - Abnormal heart iron levels and myocardial scars are not a common finding in SCD despite increased liver iron overload. The significantly different ventricular function seen in SCD compared to normal suggests the changes in RV and LV function may not be due to the anemia alone. Future studies are necessary to confirm this association.

UI  - 24047486
TI  - ECG quantification of myocardial scar and risk stratification in MADIT-II.
AB  - Recently, QRS score was shown to be predictive of VT/VF in the SCD-HeFT population consisting of both ischemic and nonischemic HF and having a maximum LVEF of 35% versus 30% for MADIT-II. Our study found that QRS score did not add prognostic value in the MADIT-II population exhibiting relatively more severe cardiac dysfunction.

UI  - 24045120
TI  - Randomized trial of conventional transseptal needle versus radiofrequency energy needle puncture for left atrial access (the TRAVERSE-LA study).
AB  - Use of an RF needle resulted in shorter time to transseptal LA access, less failure in achieving transseptal LA access, and fewer visible plastic shavings.

UI  - 24043256
TI  - Impact of sex on the heart's metabolic and functional responses to diabetic therapies.
AB  - Increased myocardial lipid delivery is a determinant of myocardial substrate metabolism and function in animal models of type 2 diabetes (T2DM). Sex also has major effects on myocardial metabolism in the human heart. Our aims were to determine whether 1) sex affects the myocardial metabolic response to lipid lowering in T2DM, 2) altering lipid [fatty acid (FA) or triglyceride] delivery to the heart would lower the elevated myocardial lipid metabolism associated with T2DM, and 3) decreasing lipid delivery improves diastolic dysfunction in T2DM. To this end, we studied 78 T2DM patients (43 women) with positron emission tomography, echocardiography, and whole body tracer studies before and 3 mo after randomization to metformin (MET), metformin + rosiglitazone (ROSI), or metformin + Lovaza (LOV). No treatment main effects were found for myocardial substrate metabolism, partly because men and women often had different responses to a given treatment. In men, MET decreased FA clearance, which was linked to increased plasma FA levels, myocardial FA utilization and oxidation, and lower myocardial glucose utilization. In women, ROSI increased FA clearance, thereby decreasing plasma FA levels and myocardial FA utilization. Although LOV did not change triglyceride levels, it improved diastolic function, particularly in men. Group and sex also interacted in determining myocardial glucose uptake. Thus, in T2DM, different therapeutic regimens impact myocardial metabolism and diastolic function in a sex-specific manner. This suggests that sex should be taken into account when designing a patient's diabetes treatment.

UI  - 24025949
TI  - Heart leaflet technology valve.
AB  - 

UI  - 24025946
TI  - Symetis ACURATE TF aortic bioprosthesis.
AB  - 

UI  - 24037224
TI  - Subclinical cardiovascular disease and its association with risk factors in children with steroid-resistant nephrotic syndrome.
AB  - Based on these results, steroid-resistant NS children generally are at high risk of cardiovascular complications, but the increased risk is likely to be multifactorial.

UI  - 24036568
TI  - Minimised closed circuit coronary artery bypass grafting in the elderly is associated with lower levels of organ-specific biomarkers: a prospective randomised study.
AB  - Following mCABG with low volume myocardial preservation and restrictive fluid management, early respiratory performance was improved and consumption of blood products reduced compared with opCAB and cCABG.

UI  - 24036070
TI  - Outcome of redo surgical aortic valve replacement in patients 80 years and older: results from the Multicenter RECORD Initiative.
AB  - Octogenarians undergoing surgical AVR after prior cardiac surgery have similar immediate postoperative outcome as younger patients, and their 5-year outcome is excellent. These data suggest that indications to undergo transcatheter AVR should not rely only on coexistence of advanced age and history of prior cardiac surgery.

UI  - 24036024
TI  - Intracoronary cardiosphere-derived cells after myocardial infarction: evidence of therapeutic regeneration in the final 1-year results of the CADUCEUS trial (CArdiosphere-Derived aUtologous stem CElls to reverse ventricUlar dySfunction).
AB  - Intracoronary administration of autologous CDCs did not raise significant safety concerns. Preliminary indications of bioactivity include decreased scar size, increased viable myocardium, and improved regional function of infarcted myocardium at 1 year post-treatment. These results, which are consistent with therapeutic regeneration, merit further investigation in future trials. (CArdiosphere-Derived aUtologous stem CElls to reverse ventricUlar dySfunction [CADUCEUS]; NCT00893360).

UI  - 24035370
TI  - Minimally invasive aortic valve replacement using right minithoracotomy is associated with better outcomes than ministernotomy.
AB  - Minimally invasive AVR using RT was associated with lower postoperative morbidities and a shorter hospital stay than MS.

UI  - 24025592
TI  - Type A aortic dissection after nonaortic cardiac surgery.
AB  - In patients who have undergone previous cardiac surgery, preexisting aortic wall pathology contributes to AAD with typical intimal damage at sites of mechanical trauma. The operative mortality was the highest in patients with previous CABG in comparison with patients with non-CABG procedures. Preoperative coronary angiography and operative management of native coronary and graft disease were significantly associated with outcome in patients with previous CABG.

UI  - 24021766
TI  - Intermediate follow-up results from the multicenter engager European pivotal trial.
AB  - Early postoperative results support implantation success and valve safety. Analysis for 6 month outcomes shows stable hemodynamic performance andclinical outcome. (Transapical Implantation of the Medtronic Engager Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation System-the Engager European Pivotal Trial; NCT01348438).

UI  - 24018647
TI  - Intensive glucose regulation in hyperglycemic acute coronary syndrome: results of the randomized BIOMarker study to identify the acute risk of a coronary syndrome-2 (BIOMArCS-2) glucose trial.
AB  - www.trialregister.nl Identifier: NTR1205.

UI  - 24016497
TI  - Prognostic importance of coronary anatomy and left ventricular ejection fraction despite optimal therapy: assessment of residual risk in the Clinical Outcomes Utilizing Revascularization and Aggressive DruG Evaluation Trial.
AB  - In spite of OMT and irrespective of protocol-assigned or clinically driven PCI, LVEF and angiographic burden of disease at baseline retain prognostic power and reflect residual risk for secondary ischemic events.

UI  - 24014619
TI  - Oxidative stress and nitric oxide pathway in adult patients who are candidates for cardiac surgery: patterns and differences.
AB  - Patients undergoing cardiac surgery have increased oxidative stress and a trend towards an impaired arginine/nitric oxide pathway with respect to Controls. Patients affected by mitral valve regurgitation show more pronounced perturbations in these pathways. The clinical implications of these findings need to be investigated.

UI  - 24011739
TI  - Prevalence and prognostic role of various conduction disturbances in patients with the Brugada syndrome.
AB  - Prevalence and prognostic value of conduction disturbances in patients with the Brugada syndrome (BrS) remains poorly known. Electrocardiograms (ECGs) from 325 patients with BrS (47  13 years, 258 men) with spontaneous (n = 143) or drug-induced (n = 182) type 1 ECG were retrospectively reviewed. Two hundred twenty-six patients (70%) were asymptomatic, 73 patients (22%) presented with unexplained syncope, and 26 patients (8%) presented with sudden death or implantable cardioverter-defibrillator appropriated therapies at diagnosis or during a mean follow-up of 48  34 months. P-wave duration of 120 ms was present in 129 patients (40%), first degree atrioventricular block (AVB) in 113 (35%), right bundle branch block (BBB) in 90 (28%), and fascicular block in 52 (16%). Increased P-wave duration, first degree AVB, and right BBB were more often present in patients after drug challenge than in patients with spontaneous type 1 ST elevation. Left BBB was present in 3 patients. SCN5A mutation carriers had longer P-wave duration and longer PR and HV intervals. In multivariate analysis, first degree AVB was independently associated with sudden death or implantable cardioverter-defibrillator appropriated therapies (odds ratio 2.41, 95% confidence interval 1.01 to 5.73, p = 0.046) together with the presence of syncope and spontaneous type 1 ST elevation. In conclusion, conduction disturbances are frequent and sometimes diffuse in patients with BrS. First degree AVB is independently linked to outcome and may be proposed to be used for individual risk stratification.

UI  - 24009216
TI  - Left atrial diameter and survival among renal allograft recipients.
AB  - The left atrial diameter determined at transplantation predicted overall and cardiac mortality. Patients with widely enlarged left atria exhibit a considerably reduced life expectancy. It remains to be determined, however, whether renal transplantation is futile in these patients.

UI  - 24006858
TI  - PINOT NOIR: pulmonic insufficiency improvement with nitric oxide inhalational response.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT00543933.

UI  - 24004812
TI  - Product of heart rate and first heart sound amplitude as an index of myocardial metabolic stress during graded exercise.
AB  - The present simple measure of DP-AHS1 can reflect plasma adrenaline and lactate levels during graded exercise testing. Further, DPBP-AHS1 is a surrogate marker of AT and a good index of functional aerobic capacity.

UI  - 24002794
TI  - Effect of early metoprolol on infarct size in ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction patients undergoing primary percutaneous coronary intervention: the Effect of Metoprolol in Cardioprotection During an Acute Myocardial Infarction (METOCARD-CNIC) trial.
AB  - http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT01311700. EUDRACT number: 2010-019939-35.

UI  - 23999693
TI  - Exposure-response analysis of pertuzumab in HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer: absence of effect on QTc prolongation and other ECG parameters.
AB  - Cardiac monitoring and concentration-QTc modeling demonstrated that pertuzumab, combined with trastuzumab and docetaxel, had no clinically relevant effects on QTcF and other electrocardiogram parameters.

UI  - 23998786
TI  - Early clinical outcome of aortic transcatheter valve-in-valve implantation in the Nordic countries.
AB  - Transcatheter valve-in-valve implantation is widely performed, albeit in small numbers, in most centers in the Nordic countries. The short-term results were excellent in this high-risk patient population, demonstrating a low incidence of device- or procedure-related complications. However, a considerable number of patients were left with suboptimal systolic valve performance with unknown long-term effects, warranting close surveillance after transcatheter valve-in-valve implantation.

UI  - 23997107
TI  - Abnormal sympathetic nerve activity in women exposed to cigarette smoke: a potential mechanism to explain increased cardiac risk.
AB  - In women, cardiac deaths attributable to tobacco exposure have reached the same high levels as men. Normally, sympathetic nerve activity (SNA) fluctuates according to the menstrual phase, but in habitual smokers, SNA levels remain constant. Our purpose is to extend these observations to other groups of women exposed to tobacco smoke and to explore potential mechanisms. We hypothesize that women exposed to secondhand smoke, but not former smokers, have nonfluctuating SNA compared with never smokers, and that impaired baroreflex suppression of SNA, and/or heightened central SNA responses, underlie this nonfluctuating SNA. We also hypothesize that female smokers have impaired nocturnal blood pressure dipping, normally mediated by modulation of SNA. In 49 females (19 never, 12 current, 9 former, 9 passive smokers), SNA was recorded (microneurography) during high- and low-hormone ovarian phases at rest, during pharmacological baroreflex testing, and during the cold pressor test (CPT). Twenty-four hour blood pressure (BP) monitoring was performed. Current and passive smokers, but not former smokers, had a nonfluctuating pattern of SNA, unlike never smokers in whom SNA varied with the menstrual phase. Baroreflex control of SNA was significantly blunted in current smokers, independent of menstrual phase. In passive smokers, SNA response to CPT was markedly increased. Nondipping was unexpectedly high in all groups. SNA does not vary during the menstrual cycle in active and passive smokers, unlike never and former smokers. Baroreflex control of SNA is blunted in current smokers, whereas SNA response to CPT is heightened in passive smokers. Smoking cessation is associated with return of the altered SNA pattern to normal.

UI  - 23997100
TI  - Tricuspid annular plane systolic excursion and pulmonary arterial systolic pressure relationship in heart failure: an index of right ventricular contractile function and prognosis.
AB  - Echo-derived pulmonary arterial systolic pressure (PASP) and right ventricular (RV) tricuspid annular plane systolic excursion (TAPSE; from the end of diastole to end-systole) are of basic relevance in the clinical follow-up of heart failure (HF) patients, carrying two- to threefold increase in cardiac risk when increased and reduced, respectively. We hypothesized that the relationship between TAPSE (longitudinal RV fiber shortening) and PASP (force generated by the RV) provides an index of in vivo RV length-force relationship, with their ratio better disclosing prognosis. Two hundred ninety-three HF patients with reduced (HFrEF, n = 247) or with preserved left ventricular (LV) ejection fraction (HFpEF, n = 46) underwent echo-Doppler studies and N-terminal pro-brain-type natriuretic peptide assessment and were tracked for adverse events. The median follow-up duration was 20.8 mo. TAPSE vs. PASP relationship showed a downward regression line shift in nonsurvivors who were more frequently presenting with higher PASP and lower TAPSE. HFrEF and HFpEF patients exhibited a similar distribution along the regression line. Given the TAPSE, PASP, and TAPSE-to-PASP ratio (TAPSE/PASP) collinearity, separate Cox regression and Kaplan-Meier analyses were performed: one with TAPSE and PASP as individual measures, and the other combining them in ratio form. Hazard ratios for variables retained in the multivariate regression were as follows: TAPSE/PASP </ 0.36 mm/mmHg [hazard ratio (HR): 10.4, P < 0.001]; TAPSE </ 16 mm (HR: 5.1, P < 0.01); New York Heart Association functional class </ 3 (HR: 4.4, P < 0.001); E/e' (HR: 4.1, P < 0.001). This study shows that the TAPSE vs. PASP relationship is shifted downward in nonsurvivors with a similar distribution in HFrEF and HFpEF, and their ratio improves prognostic resolution. The TAPSE vs. PASP relationship as a possible index of the length-force relationship may be a step forward for a more efficient RV function evaluation and is not affected by the quality of LV dysfunction.

UI  - 23995760
TI  - Preoperative regional left ventricular wall thickening determined by quantitative gated SPECT as a predictor of mid-term surgical results for ischemic and nonischemic cardiomyopathy.
AB  - Posterior LVWT can be a predictor for postoperative cardiac events in patients with NICM.

UI  - 23994420
TI  - Allopurinol reduces left ventricular mass in patients with type 2 diabetes and left ventricular hypertrophy.
AB  - Allopurinol causes regression of LVM in patients with T2DM and LVH. Regression of LVH has been shown previously to improve CV mortality and morbidity. Therefore, allopurinol therapy may become useful to reduce CV events in T2DM patients with LVH. (Allopurinol in Patients with Diabetes and LVH; UKCRN 8766).

UI  - 23993247
TI  - Targeted ablation at stable atrial fibrillation sources improves success over conventional ablation in high-risk patients: a substudy of the CONFIRM Trial.
AB  - Patients with "difficult to treat" AF exhibit more concurrent AF sources in more widespread biatrial distributions than other patients. These mechanisms explain the disappointing results of PV isolation, and how FIRM can identify patient-specific AF sources to enable successful ablation in this population.

UI  - 23993032
TI  - Reliability of new scores in predicting perioperative mortality after mitral valve surgery.
AB  - The euroSCORE II and ACEF scores are good predictors of perioperative mortality in patients undergoing isolated or associated mitral valve surgery, with better discrimination for the first and better calibration for the second. No algorithm seems suitable for risk estimation in mid and high-risk patients.

UI  - 23987904
TI  - Severe thrombocytopenia and its clinical impact after implant of the stentless Freedom Solo bioprosthesis.
AB  - AVR with FS was associated with severe thrombocytopenia during the first postoperative days. Besides a slightly longer hospitalization in the intensive care unit in the FS group, the clinical outcome did not differ significantly, indicating thrombocytopenia was a transient and self-recovering phenomenon, not affecting clinical outcome. Rinsing the FS did not prevent thrombocytopenia.

UI  - 23985432
TI  - Low-sodium DASH diet improves diastolic function and ventricular-arterial coupling in hypertensive heart failure with preserved ejection fraction.
AB  - URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00939640.

UI  - 23984312
TI  - Cardiovascular and renal effects of bromocriptine in diabetic patients with stage 4 chronic kidney disease.
AB  - BEC resulted in a decrease on blood pressure and LVMI. BEC also prevented the progression of CKD while maintaining the creatinine clearance unchanged.

UI  - 23983247
TI  - Discrete prepotential as an indicator of successful ablation in patients with coronary cusp ventricular arrhythmia.
AB  - A discrete prepotential was seen in 9 (26%) of 35 patients with CC-VA. In left and right CC-VA, the site of a discrete prepotential with 50 ms activation time may indicate a successful ablation site.

UI  - 23979658
TI  - Hair magnesium, but not serum magnesium, is associated with left ventricular wall thickness in hemodialysis patients.
AB  - In hemodialysis patients, hair Mg concentration is a biomarker, independent of serum Mg concentration. Hair Mg, but not serum Mg, was significantly and negatively associated with LVWT. Reduced tissue Mg concentration, as measured in the hair, may be associated with left ventricular hypertrophy in hemodialysis patients.

UI  - 23973954
TI  - Impact of the right ventricular lead position on clinical outcome and on the incidence of ventricular tachyarrhythmias in patients with CRT-D.
AB  - In CRT-D patients, there is no benefit of nonapical RV lead location in clinical outcome or echocardiographic response. Moreover, nonapical RV lead location is associated with an increased risk of ventricular tachyarrhythmias, particularly in the first year after device implantation.

UI  - 23973952
TI  - Left atrial appendage closure followed by 6 weeks of antithrombotic therapy: a prospective single-center experience.
AB  - Implantation of both LAA closure devices can be performed with high success rates in high-risk patients. Postprocedural 6 weeks antithrombotic therapy followed by aspirin therapy needs to be confirmed in a larger study.

UI  - 23973868
TI  - Prognostic relevance of papillary muscle infarction in reperfused infarction as visualized by cardiovascular magnetic resonance.
AB  - The presence of PapMI is associated with decreased myocardial salvage, larger infarcts, and more pronounced reperfusion injury with subsequent significantly increased major adverse cardiac event rates. Consequently, our data underscore the importance of PapMI as a marker of poor outcome in patients with ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction.

UI  - 23973694
TI  - Autonomic denervation added to pulmonary vein isolation for paroxysmal atrial fibrillation: a randomized clinical trial.
AB  - Addition of GP ablation to PVI confers a significantly higher success rate compared with either PVI or GP alone in patients with PAF.

UI  - 23972966
TI  - Eplerenone in systemic right ventricle: double blind randomized clinical trial. The evedes study.
AB  - Patients with SRV treated with eplerenone showed an improvement of an altered baseline CTB profile suggesting that reduction of myocardial fibrosis might be a therapeutic target in these patients.

UI  - 23970719
TI  - Cardiovascular biomarkers, cardiac dysfunction, and outcomes in patients with type 2 diabetes: a prospective, multicenter study.
AB  - 

UI  - 23970363
TI  - Differential effects of nonselective versus selective -blockers on cardiac sympathetic activity and hemostasis in patients with heart failure.
AB  - Compared with metoprolol, carvedilol resulted in greater reduction of sympathetic activity after 6 wk of treatment and lower von Willebrand factor concentrations in both Arg16/Gln27 and Gly16/Glu27 individuals. Therefore, carvedilol may reduce the risk of thromboembolic events in patients with heart failure, irrespective of 2-receptor haplotype status.

UI  - 23968870
TI  - Risk scores for predicting mortality after surgical ventricular reconstruction for ischemic cardiomyopathy: results of a Japanese multicenter study.
AB  - A simple prognostic model was developed to predict mortality after surgical ventricular reconstruction. It can be useful in clinical practice to select treatment options for ischemic heart failure.

UI  - 23968761
TI  - Coronary revascularization for patients with severe left ventricular dysfunction.
AB  - For patients with coronary artery disease and left ventricular dysfunction, CABG was associated with lower rates of repeat revascularization and improved survival over PCI, after adjustment for baseline risk profile differences. Further research exploring the factors leading to use of a particular revascularization modality in this patient population is required.

UI  - 23956267
TI  - Early and late outcomes of total repair of tetralogy of Fallot: risk factors for late right ventricular dilatation.
AB  - Total correction of TOF can be performed with a very low mortality rate. However, the postoperative re-operation or re-intervention rates remain relatively high. Late RV dilatation after total repair of TOF was found to be associated with transannular patch enlargement and a longer postoperative ventilator support period.

UI  - 23954337
TI  - Predictive factors, management, and clinical outcomes of coronary obstruction following transcatheter aortic valve implantation: insights from a large multicenter registry.
AB  - Symptomatic CO following TAVI was a rare but life-threatening complication that occurred more frequently in women, in patients receiving a balloon-expandable valve, and in those with a previous surgical bioprosthesis. Lower-lying coronary ostium and shallow sinus of Valsalva were associated anatomic factors, and despite successful treatment, acute and late mortality remained very high, highlighting the importance of anticipating and preventing the occurrence of this complication.

UI  - 23949325
TI  - Maternal restriction of polyphenols and fetal ductal dynamics in normal pregnancy: an open clinical trial.
AB  - The oriented restriction of third trimester maternal ingestion of polyphenol-rich foods for a period of 2 weeks or more improve fetal ductus arteriosus flow dynamics and right ventricular dimensions.

UI  - 23942679
TI  - Association between early surgical intervention vs watchful waiting and outcomes for mitral regurgitation due to flail mitral valve leaflets.
AB  - Among registry patients with mitral valve regurgitation due to flail mitral leaflets, performance of early mitral surgery compared with initial medical management was associated with greater long-term survival and a lower risk of heart failure, with no difference in new-onset atrial fibrillation.

UI  - 23939325
TI  - Clinical and ultramicroscopic myocardial randomized study of beating versus arrested heart for mitral surgery.
AB  - Myocardial protection and ultrastructural abnormalities were similar for both types of mitral valve replacement beating or arrested heart techniques.

UI  - 23938215
TI  - Impact of anatomical subtype and medical comorbidities on hospitalizations in adults with single ventricle congenital heart disease.
AB  - Hospitalization costs in adults with SV are significant and are impacted by comorbid medical conditions. Hospitalization rates for adults with SV are not increasing. Gastroenterologic comorbidities including protein-losing enteropathy (PLE) are common in HLHS.

UI  - 23936951
TI  - The effects in correction of anaemia in chronic kidney disease with erythropoietin therapy--preference to cardiovascular, neurologic and general well-being of patients from a tertiary care centre.
AB  - Anaemia, the major sequelae of chronic renal disease (CRD) needs to be investigated because it acts as an independent risk factor for worsening of cardiovascular survival, cognitive impairment and poor quality of life. In this prospective tertiary care hospital-based study we have followed up 100 randomly assigned CRD patients who were not on dialysis for at least 6 months. Left ventricular mass index (LVMI), ejection fraction (EF), mini-mental status examination (MMSE) and general well-being of these patients were assessed quantitatively on admission and at 3rd and 6th months of follow-up after receiving recombinant human erythropoietin (rHuEPO) and aggressive intravenous iron therapy for anaemia correction. The median study duration was 6 years. Statistical analysis also showed the positive impact of anaemia correction which, even when partial, caused significant improvement in cardiovascular function as evidenced by increase in EF (p = 0.004) and decrease in LVMI (p = 0.016) along with substantial enhancement of general well-being (p < 0.001). Cognition did not show significant change within a short spell of 6 months. This study thus emphasises on earliest detection and correction of anaemia in CRD population to enhance both short-term and long-term survival as a whole.

UI  - 23936059
TI  - Long QT interval in Turner syndrome--a high prevalence of LQTS gene mutations.
AB  - NCT00624949. https://register.clinicaltrials.gov/prs/app/action/SelectProtocol/sid/S0001FLI/selectaction/View/ts/3/uid/U000099E.

UI  - 23935882
TI  - Pseudoxanthoma elasticum: cardiac findings in patients and Abcc6-deficient mouse model.
AB  - Despite sporadic cases, PXE does not appear to be associated with frequent cardiac complications. However, the development of cardiac hypertrophy in the 24-month-old Abcc6(-/-) mice suggests that old PXE patients might be prone to developing late cardiopathy.

UI  - 23933512
TI  - Lipoteichoic acid from Staphylococcus aureus directly affects cardiomyocyte contractility and calcium transients.
AB  - Lipoteichoic acid (LTA) is the key pathogenic factor of gram-positive bacteria and contributes significantly to organ dysfunction in sepsis, a frequent complication in critical care patients. We hypothesized that LTA directly affects cardiomyocyte function, thus contributing to cardiac failure in sepsis. This study was designed to evaluate the effects of LTA on contractile properties and calcium-transients of isolated adult rat cardiomyocytes. When myocytes were exposed to LTA for 1h prior to analysis, the amplitudes of calcium-transients as well as sarcomere shortening increased to 130% and 142% at 1 Hz stimulation frequency. Relengthening of sarcomeres as well as decay of calcium-transients was accelerated after LTA incubation. Exposure to LTA for 24 h resulted in significant depression of calcium-transients as well as of sarcomere shortening compared to controls. One of the major findings of our experiments is that LTA most likely affects calcium-handling of the cardiomyocytes. The effect is exacerbated by reduced extracellular calcium, which resembles the clinical situation in septic patients. Functionally, an early stimulating effect of LTA with increased contractility of the cardiomyocytes may be an in vitro reflection of early hyperdynamic phases in clinical sepsis. Septic disorders have been shown to induce late hypodynamic states of the contractile myocardium, which is also supported at the single-cell level in vitro by results of our 24h-exposure to LTA.

UI  - 23932860
TI  - Relationship of CRP, IL-6, and fibrinogen with right ventricular structure and function: the MESA-Right Ventricle Study.
AB  - Levels of CRP and IL-6 are independently associated with RV morphology even after adjustment for the respective LV measure in this multi-ethnic population free of clinical cardiovascular disease. Systemic inflammation may contribute to RV structural changes independent of effects on the LV.

UI  - 23932642
TI  - CMR quantification of myocardial scar provides additive prognostic information in nonischemic cardiomyopathy.
AB  - LGE extent may provide further risk stratification in patients with NIDC with a current indication for ICD implantation for the primary prevention of SCD. Strategic guidance on ICD therapy by cardiac magnetic resonance in patients with NIDC warrants further study.

UI  - 23931967
TI  - Impact of prosthesis-patient mismatch on tricuspid valve regurgitation and pulmonary hypertension following mitral valve replacement.
AB  - This study shows that mitral PPM is associated with the persistence of fTR and PH following MVR. These findings support the realization of tricuspid valve annuloplasty when PPM is anticipated at the time of operation.

UI  - 23931880
TI  - Fibroblast growth factor 23 and left ventricular mass index in maintenance hemodialysis patients: standard versus long nocturnal hemodialysis.
AB  - Elevated levels of fibroblast growth factor 23 (FGF23) and phosphorus (P) have been linked to greater risks of left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) in patients with end stage renal disease (ESRD). The aim of this study was to test if differences exist in a long nocturnal HD group in comparison with a group treated with standard daily thrice weekly dialysis. The attempt was to evaluate if elevated FGF-23 levels, intact parathyroid hormone and P might be associated with left ventricular mass index (LVMI). Quantitative echocardiographic analyses were performed at baseline in 50 maintenance HD patients (17 women and 33 men, mean age: 56.415.35 years, mean HD vintage: 9.068.86 years, all patients are on HD thrice a week-median duration 15h/week, 10 of them on long nocturnal HD, median duration 24h/week). LVMIs were calculated. FGF23 was measured in duplicate using a second generation C-terminal enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and log of FGF-23 values were computed. Mean LVMI was 136.4444.44g/m(2) . Serum FGF-23 levels were elevated when compared to population data with preserved kidney function (median 1388.5RU/mL, range 252 to 24336RU/mL). There were no correlations recorded between log FGF-23 levels and LVMI (r=0.2, P=0.66). LVMI was significantly lower in HD patients on long nocturnal dialysis procedure (r=-0.31, P=0.05). Patients treated with long nocturnal HD showed lower LV mass, lower P-values and higher 25-OH-D3 supply. Plasma FGF-23 concentration was comparable between the groups and was not associated with LVMI in our maintenance HD patients.

UI  - 23927866
TI  - Low incidence of procedure-related major adverse cardiac events after alcohol septal ablation for symptomatic hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy.
AB  - The results of the multicentre study demonstrate that ASA appears safe and efficacious, with low early mortality. The most frequent major complication after ASA was CHB (17%), which occurred late or was recurrent in almost one-third of these patients; 8% of patients required permanent pacemaker implantation. Independent predictors of CHB development were intraprocedural bundle branch block and age. Difficulty in predicting CHB should lead to close postprocedural monitoring and hospital stays lasting at least 5 days.

UI  - 23924888
TI  - Six-year follow-up of catheter ablation in paroxysmal atrial fibrillation.
AB  - The vast majority of drug-resistant PAF could be controlled by EEPVI without an additional atrial substrate modification. No progression toward persistent AF was observed during a median follow-up of 6 years.

UI  - 23922005
TI  - Longitudinal determinants of left ventricular mass and geometry: the Coronary Artery Risk Development in Young Adults (CARDIA) Study.
AB  - Prevalence of abnormal LV hypertrophy and geometry increased from young adulthood to middle age. Both young adult cardiovascular risk traits and change in these traits predicted change in LV mass/geometry.

UI  - 23922004
TI  - T mapping with cardiovascular MRI is highly sensitive for Fabry disease independent of hypertrophy and sex.
AB  - Reduced noncontrast myocardial T values are the most sensitive and specific cardiovascular MRI parameter in patients with FD irrespective of sex and LV morphology and function.

UI  - 23920136
TI  - [Acute myocardial infarction in women. Initial characteristics, management and early outcome. The FAST-MI registry].
AB  - Myocardial infarction is not specific to men: one out of four patients admitted for myocardial infarction is a woman. Initial management is rather similar for men and women, after taking into account differences in baseline characteristics. Percutaneous coronary angioplasty, however, remains less frequently used in women. In-hospital complications have become rarer and do not differ according to sex.

UI  - 23920077
TI  - Novel approach to epicardial pacemaker implantation in patients with limited venous access.
AB  - Epicardial pacemaker implantation through pericardial reflections is an effective alternative therapy for those patients requiring physiologic pacing in whom venous access is limited.

UI  - 23919733
TI  - Outcomes of fetal listed patients awaiting heart transplantation.
AB  - HTx in neonates is mainstay therapy for those with severe cardiomyopathies and congenital heart disease. Fetal listing for HTx has been proposed as a way to increase the potential window for a donor with outcomes predicted to be similar to the neonatal population. Data from the PHTS, a prospective multicenter study, were used to examine the outcomes of fetuses listed between 1993 and 2009. Four thousand three hundred and sixty-five children were listed for HTx during this period. Fetuses comprised 1% and neonates 19.8% of listed patients. In those patients listed as fetus and transplanted, the median wait time from listing to HTx was 55days (range 4-255), with a median of 25days (range 0-233) after birth. By sixmonths post-listing, a higher proportion of fetal listed patients had undergone HTx with a lower waitlist mortality when compared with neonate. There was no significant difference in survival following HTx between the two group (p=0.4). While the results of this study may be less applicable to current practice due to changes in referrals for fetal listing, they do indicate that fetal listing can be a reasonable option. These results are of particular interest at the present time given the ongoing public discourse on the proposed elimination of fetal listing within UNOS.

UI  - 23916925
TI  - Effect of If-channel inhibition on hemodynamic status and exercise tolerance in heart failure with preserved ejection fraction: a randomized trial.
AB  - In patients with HFpEF, short-term treatment with ivabradine increased exercise capacity, with a contribution from improved left ventricular filling pressure response to exercise as reflected by the ratio of peak early diastolic mitral flow velocity to peak early diastolic mitral annular velocity. Because this patient population is symptomatic on exertion, therapeutic treatments targeting abnormal exercise hemodynamic status may prove useful. (Use of Exercise and Medical Therapies to Improve Cardiac Function Among Patients With Exertional Shortness of Breath Due to Lung Congestion; ACTRN12610001087044).

UI  - 23913462
TI  - Impact of left ventricular dysfunction on early and late outcomes in patients undergoing concomitant aortic valve replacement and coronary artery bypass graft surgery.
AB  - Patients with severely impaired LVEF experience worse outcomes. However, in the era of modern surgery, this alone should not predicate exclusion, given the established benefits of surgery in this high-risk group.

UI  - 23910665
TI  - Ipragliflozin does not prolong QTc interval in healthy male and female subjects: a phase I study.
AB  - No clinically meaningful QTc interval prolongation was observed in these healthy subjects who received ipragliflozin doses up to 600 mg/d for 7 days. ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT01232413.

UI  - 23909282
TI  - Increased epicardial fat tissue is a marker of subclinical atherosclerosis in patients with psoriasis.
AB  - We demonstrated that EFT and CIMT are increased in patients with psoriasis, and that echocardiographic EFT is closely correlated with CIMT in patients with psoriasis. The echocardiographic assessment of EFT may have the potential to be a simple marker of subclinical atherosclerosis and increased cardiovascular risk in patients with psoriasis.

UI  - 23906876
TI  - Right ventricular and septal function in patients with pulmonary hypertension.
AB  - Following MVR, a decrement in PAP values, and an improvement in ventricular function, especially in the right ventricular and septal kinetics were achieved. Furthermore, it was found that both DTI and BPGS techniques are beneficial to investigate the functional changes postoperatively and in the follow-up period of the patients who undergo mitral valve surgery.

UI  - 23906733
TI  - Effect of myocardial revascularisation on left ventricular systolic function in patients with and without viable myocardium: should non-viable segments be revascularised?
AB  - It appears that patients with LV dysfunction, but without viable myocardium, may also benefit from myocardial revascularisation. Functional recovery continuously occurs throughout the first year after surgical treatment.

UI  - 23897790
TI  - A correlation between acute kidney injury and myonecrosis after scheduled percutaneous coronary intervention.
AB  - Slight elevations in cardiac troponin I and T are frequently observed after percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). Contrast-induced acute kidney injury (CI-AKI) is a complex syndrome induced by exposure to intravascular contrast media (CM). Currently, the relationships between the CM, pre-existing kidney insufficiency, CI-AKI, and myonecrosis after elective PCI are unclear. To investigate the relationship between CI-AKI and post-procedural myonecrosis (PMN) after PCI, we analyzed 327 non-ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndrome subjects undertaking elective PCI. The levels of cardiac troponins (cTns), cTnI and cTnT, at baseline and on at least one occasion 18-24 h after PCI were measured. We also recorded serum levels of creatinine (SCr) and the urine albumin:creatinine ratio (ACR) before coronary angiography, and 24-48 h and 48-72 h after contrast administration. A post-procedure increase in cTns was detected in 16.21% (53/327) of subjects with cTns levels >99th to 599th percentile upper reference limit (URL). Twenty-seven patients (8.26%) developed CI-AKI. CI-AKI occurred more often in subjects with PMN than in those without PMN (20.8% versus 5.8%, respectively, P=0.001). Multiple logistic regression analysis revealed that pre-existing microalbuminuria (MA) was an important independent predictor of PMN (OR: 3.31; 95% CI: 1.26-8.65, P=0.01). However, there was no correlation between the incidence of CI-AKI and PMN (OR: 2.38; 95% CI: 0.88-6.46, P=0.09). We conclude that pre-existing MA was not only an important independent predictor of CI-AKI but also of PMN.

UI  - 23896769
TI  - Mitral valve repair at the time of continuous-flow left ventricular assist device implantation confers meaningful decrement in pulmonary vascular resistance.
AB  - We hypothesized that the addition of mitral valve replacement or repair (MVR) to implantation of continuous-flow left ventricular assist device (cf-LVAD) may further decrease pulmonary vascular resistance (PVR) over Heartmate II (HMII) implantation alone. Patients undergoing MVR with concomitant HMII implantation were compared with those undergoing HMII implantation alone. Of the 57 patients undergoing cf-LVAD implantation, 21 (36.8%) underwent concomitant MVR and 36 (63.2%) underwent cf-LVAD implantation alone. Patients receiving MVR had greater decrement in PVR (59.4% vs. 35.2%, p = 0.01). Decrease in end-diastolic diameter was greater for patients receiving MVR but did not reach statistical significance (18.2 vs. 13.5 mm, p = 0.33). Duration of mechanical ventilation (121.6 vs. 181.4 hours, p = 0.45) and inotropic support (162.4 vs. 153.2 hours, p = 0.86), change in creatinine (0.19 vs. -0.26 mg/dl, p = 0.34), increase in bilirubin (2.54 vs. 1.55 mg/dl, p = 0.63), intensive care unit stay (168.0 vs. 231.5 hours, p = 0.38), and overall length of stay (32.0 vs. 42.5 days, p = 0.75) were similar. There was no difference in survival at 3 months (89.7% vs. 83.3%) and 1 year (83.7 vs. 67.3%, p = 0.34). Addition of MVR may result in greater decrement of PVR than HMII implantation alone. This may permit certain patients thought to be ineligible for transplantation to become candidates.

UI  - 23896189
TI  - Cardiac function and arterial biophysical properties in small for gestational age infants: postnatal manifestations of fetal programming.
AB  - Cardiac function and arterial biophysical properties were altered in the SGA infants. The findings complement the information on the association between in utero growth and cardiovascular morbidity in later life.

UI  - 23892385
TI  - Left atrial expansion index predicts atrial fibrillation in dyspnea.
AB  - The LA expansion index is associated with the presence of AF, and a reduced LA expansion index has a strong association with persistent AF.

UI  - 23892341
TI  - Corticosteroid use during pulmonary vein isolation is associated with a higher prevalence of dormant pulmonary vein conduction.
AB  - A single bolus of hydrocortisone 250 mg IV prior to PVI results in greater radiofrequency requirements for PVI and a higher prevalence of dormant PV conduction unmasked by adenosine. The utility of these approaches requires evaluation in a long-term prospective randomized study.

UI  - 23891098
TI  - Inter-observer variation in delineation of the heart and left anterior descending coronary artery in radiotherapy for breast cancer: a multi-centre study from Denmark and the UK.
AB  - For the heart, there was little inter-observer variation in the estimated dose, especially when guidelines were used. In contrast, for the LADCA there was substantial variation in the estimated dose, which was not reduced with guidelines.

UI  - 23889974
TI  - Mutation-positive arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia/cardiomyopathy: the triangle of dysplasia displaced.
AB  - Mutation-positive ARVD/C exhibits a previously unrecognized characteristic pattern of disease involving the basal inferior and anterior RV, and the posterolateral LV. The RV apex is only involved in advanced ARVD/C, typically as a part of global RV involvement. These results displace the RV apex from the Triangle of Dysplasia, and provide insights into the pathophysiology of ARVD/C.

UI  - 23888774
TI  - [Expression profile of calcineurin pathway genes in myocardium tissues in relation to ischemic heart remodeling in humans].
AB  - Calcineurin pathway plays the critical role in the cardiac remodeling of various origin, development of chambers dilatation and progression of heart failure. Components of calcineurin pathway are involved in myocardium hypertrophy regulation, angiogenesis and apoptosis. Results of quantitative expression profiling study of main calcineurin pathway genes PPP3CA, PPP3R1, PPP3CB, GATA4 and NFATC4 in myocardium of right atrium auricle of patients with a coronary heart disease, exposed to various types of surgical treatments depending on weight of a clinical finding (surgical reconstruction of the geometry of left ventricle (LV) (postinfarction aneurysm) or coronary artery bypass grafting in case of unaltered morphology of LV) are presented. In patients with sizable postinfarction LV dilatation (n = 21) expression level of calcineurin catalytic subunit genes PPP3CA and PPP3CB was 1.3 and 1.6 times lower (p = 0.018 and 0.023, accordingly) compared to patients with unaltered shape of the heart (n = 34). Expression level of PPP3R1 gene encoding calcineurin regulatory subunit B and GATA4 and NFATC4 genes for transcription factors did not differ in studied subgroups of patients. Thus, lower expression of PPP3CA and PPP3CB genes in atrium myocardium can be related to expressed postinfarction LV remodeling. Further studies of relation quantitative expression profiling of calcineurin pathway genes with the level of damage of myocardium is essential what may have important outcome for the prevention of adverse events of cardiosurgical treatments in patients with postinfarction remodeling.

UI  - 23886033
TI  - Attitude after a mild aortic valve lesion during rheumatic mitral valve surgery.
AB  - Mild aortic valve disease in patients undergoing rheumatic mitral valve surgery could be left untreated, because preventive aortic valve operation does not result in better clinical and echocardiographic outcomes.

UI  - 23884195
TI  - Diffuse ventricular fibrosis is a late outcome of tachycardia-mediated cardiomyopathy after successful ablation.
AB  - Tachycardia-mediated cardiomyopathy patients exhibit differences in LV structure and function including diffuse fibrosis long after arrhythmia cure, indicating that recovery is incomplete.

UI  - 23883877
TI  - Clinical significance of abnormal relaxation pattern of the transmitral flow velocity waveform in older patients with preserved left ventricular ejection fraction.
AB  - Proportional elevations in minimum LV and pre-A pressures, due to deteriorated LV relaxation, resulted in no changes in the pressure gradient between the LA and LV in early diastole, E, or E/A.

UI  - 23883873
TI  - Myocardial stretch in early systole is a key determinant of the synchrony of left ventricular mechanical activity in vivo.
AB  - Mapping LV segmental shortening in relation to early systolic stretch may aid dyssynchrony assessment in patients undergoing CRT.

UI  - 23882870
TI  - Light cigarette smoking and vascular function.
AB  - Smoking light cigarettes has similar acute detrimental effects on FMD, LVDF, ASI, AoD, and AoEM as regular cigarettes.

UI  - 23881779
TI  - Impact of stepwise ablation on the biatrial substrate in patients with persistent atrial fibrillation and heart failure.
AB  - Remote LA CFE area was progressively reduced following PVI and linear lesions, and LA ablation reduced right atrial CFE area. Reduction of CFE area at sites remote from ablation would suggest either regression of the advanced atrial substrate or that these CFE were functional phenomena. Nevertheless, in an advanced atrial fibrillation substrate, linear lesions after PVI diminished the target area for CFE ablation, and complete lesions resulted in a favorable clinical outcome.

UI  - 23879050
TI  - [The predictors of progression of myocardial dysfunction in patients with essential hypertension and heart valve calcification].
AB  - The article presents the results of a study to identify predictors of progression of myocardial dysfunction in patients with essential hypertension (EH) and calcification of the heart valves (CCS) using regression analysis, with this purpose examnined 245 patients. In patients with essential hypertension and HVC as the most informative predictors of progression of myocardial dysfunction were presents of combined valvular damage, severity of aortic stenosis and its progression in dynamics.

UI  - 23877854
TI  - Early postoperative hemodynamic performances of stented versus stentless aortic xenografts in aortic valve replacement in elderly patients: a comparative study.
AB  - In early postoperative period, effective orifice areas and pressure gradients were found higher in stentless valve group.

UI  - 23877731
TI  - Right ventricular and tricuspid valve remodeling after bidirectional cavopulmonary anastomosis.
AB  - In children with hypoplastic left heart syndrome after BCPA, the coaptation length of the anterior and septal leaflets of the TV improved concomitantly with vena contracta width and RV end-diastolic area despite unchanged tricuspid regurgitation grade. This suggests that favorable RV and TV remodeling accompanies the reduction in RV volume load following BCPA.

UI  - 23876809
TI  - Impact of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor therapy on heart valves in patients exposed to benfluorex: a multicentre study.
AB  - Exposure to SSRIs was not associated with an increased risk of heart valve regurgitation or morphological abnormalities suggestive of drug-induced toxicity in this large cohort of patients exposed to benfluorex.

UI  - 23875908
TI  - Ibutilide increases the variability and complexity of atrial fibrillation electrograms: antiarrhythmic insights using signal analyses.
AB  - Novel EGM signal analysis techniques reveal that ibutilide administration causes increased complexity in the atrial electrical activation pattern with decreasing rate. These findings may be explained by the progressive destabilization of higher frequency, more homogeneous primary drivers of AF over the course of ibutilide administration, and/or less uniform propagation of atrial activation, until AF maintenance becomes more difficult and either transforms to atrial tachycardia or terminates to SR.

UI  - 23875907
TI  - Variable procedural strategies adapted to anatomical characteristics in catheter ablation of the cavotricuspid isthmus using a preoperative multidetector computed tomography analysis.
AB  - Changing the procedural strategies by adaptating them to the anatomical characteristics improved the outcomes of the CTI ablation.

UI  - 23875875
TI  - Left atrial diverticula in patients undergoing atrial fibrillation ablation: morphologic analysis and clinical impact.
AB  - LAD are present in about one-fourth of patients undergoing AF ablation and, in general, they have no impact on its safety and efficacy. However, occasionally, radiofrequency energy delivery in a LAD can cause tissue overheating and perforation.

UI  - 23872690
TI  - Response of right ventricular size to treatment with cardiac resynchronization therapy and the risk of ventricular tachyarrhythmias in MADIT-CRT.
AB  - Our findings suggest that the RV may have an important role in determining the antiarrhythmic effect of CRT independent of the effect of the device on the left ventricle.

UI  - 23871886
TI  - Evaluation of age-related interstitial myocardial fibrosis with cardiac magnetic resonance contrast-enhanced T1 mapping: MESA (Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis).
AB  - CMR parameters that have been associated with myocardial fibrosis were related to older age in the MESA study. Women had higher ECV than men but less ECV change over time.

UI  - 23871674
TI  - Arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia/cardiomyopathy according to revised 2010 task force criteria with inclusion of non-desmosomal phospholamban mutation carriers.
AB  - Arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia/cardiomyopathy (ARVD/C) is frequently associated with desmosomal mutations. However, nondesmosomal mutations may be involved. The aim of this study was to assess the contribution of a phospholamban (PLN) gene mutation to ARVD/C diagnosis according to the revised 2010 task force criteria (TFC). In 142 Dutch patients (106 men, mean age 51  13 years) with proven ARVD/C (fulfillment of 2010 TFC for diagnosis), 5 known desmosomal genes (PKP2, DSP, DSC2, DSG2, and JUP) and the nondesmosomal PLN gene were screened. After genetic analysis, phenotypic characteristics of desmosomal versus PLN mutation carriers were compared. In 59 of 142 patients with ARVD/C (42%), no desmosomal mutation was found. In 19 of 142 patients (13%), the PLN founder mutation c.40_42delAGA (p.Arg14del) was identified. PLN mutation carriers more often had low-voltage electrocardiograms (p= 0.004), inverted T waves in leads V4 to V6 (p <0.001), and additional structural (p= 0.007) or functional (p= 0.017) left ventricular impairment, whereas desmosomal mutation carriers had more solitary right ventricular abnormalities. The revised TFC included 21 of 142 patients with proven ARVD/C who did not meet the 1994 TFC, including 7 PLN mutation carriers. In conclusion, there is a substantial contribution of PLN mutation to ARVD/C diagnosis by the 2010 TFC. In 32% of patients (19 of 59) with genetically unexplained proven ARVD/C, this nondesmosomal mutation was found. PLN mutation carriers have ARVD/C characteristics, including important right ventricular involvement, and additionally more often low-voltage electrocardiograms, inverted T waves in the left precordial leads, and left ventricular involvement.

UI  - 23870159
TI  - The new St Jude Trifecta versus Carpentier-Edwards Perimount Magna and Magna Ease aortic bioprosthesis: is there a hemodynamic superiority?
AB  - The present observational study is the first to compare the new Trifecta valve with well-established supra-annular aortic valve bioprostheses from a hemodynamic perspective. Although mean pressure gradients and aortic valve areas seem to be advantageous at 6-month follow-up with the new Trifecta valve, after multivariate covariance analysis, no influence of prosthesis type on mean pressure gradient or aortic valve area could be demonstrated.

UI  - 23870156
TI  - Dynamic characterization of aortic annulus geometry and morphology with multimodality imaging: predictive value for aortic regurgitation after transcatheter aortic valve replacement.
AB  - Residual post-TAVR AR is predicted by reduced aortic annular deformity, higher annular calcification, and prosthesis undersizing. Pre-TAVR 4-dimensional annular assessment aids in prediction of post-TAVR AR.

UI  - 23868944
TI  - Cardioprotective effects of exenatide in patients with ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction undergoing primary percutaneous coronary intervention: results of exenatide myocardial protection in revascularization study.
AB  - In patients with ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction, adjunctive exenatide therapy with primary percutaneous coronary intervention was associated with reduction of infarct size and improvement of subclinical left ventricular function.

UI  - 23868858
TI  - Prospective randomized study to assess the efficacy of site and rate of atrial pacing on long-term progression of atrial fibrillation in sick sinus syndrome: Septal Pacing for Atrial Fibrillation Suppression Evaluation (SAFE) Study.
AB  - URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER: NCT00419640.

UI  - 23866184
TI  - Relationship between myocardial reperfusion, infarct size, and mortality: the INFUSE-AMI (Intracoronary Abciximab and Aspiration Thrombectomy in Patients With Large Anterior Myocardial Infarction) trial.
AB  - MBG 2/3 occurs in 80% of ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction patients treated with primary percutaneous coronary intervention and is associated with smaller infarct size, less microvascular obstruction, improved ejection fraction, and significantly lower 30-day mortality. (Intracoronary Abciximab and Aspiration Thrombectomy in Patients With Large Anterior Myocardial Infarction [INFUSE-AMI]; NCT00976521).

UI  - 23861494
TI  - Induction of human cardiomyocyte-like cells from fibroblasts by defined factors.
AB  - Heart disease remains a leading cause of death worldwide. Owing to the limited regenerative capacity of heart tissue, cardiac regenerative therapy has emerged as an attractive approach. Direct reprogramming of human cardiac fibroblasts (HCFs) into cardiomyocytes may hold great potential for this purpose. We reported previously that induced cardiomyocyte-like cells (iCMs) can be directly generated from mouse cardiac fibroblasts in vitro and vivo by transduction of three transcription factors: Gata4, Mef2c, and Tbx5, collectively termed GMT. In the present study, we sought to determine whether human fibroblasts also could be converted to iCMs by defined factors. Our initial finding that GMT was not sufficient for cardiac induction in HCFs prompted us to screen for additional factors to promote cardiac reprogramming by analyzing multiple cardiac-specific gene induction with quantitative RT-PCR. The addition of Mesp1 and Myocd to GMT up-regulated a broader spectrum of cardiac genes in HCFs more efficiently compared with GMT alone. The HCFs and human dermal fibroblasts transduced with GMT, Mesp1, and Myocd (GMTMM) changed the cell morphology from a spindle shape to a rod-like or polygonal shape, expressed multiple cardiac-specific proteins, increased a broad range of cardiac genes and concomitantly suppressed fibroblast genes, and exhibited spontaneous Ca(2+) oscillations. Moreover, the cells matured to exhibit action potentials and contract synchronously in coculture with murine cardiomyocytes. A 5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine assay revealed that the iCMs thus generated do not pass through a mitotic cell state. These findings demonstrate that human fibroblasts can be directly converted to iCMs by defined factors, which may facilitate future applications in regenerative medicine.

UI  - 23860092
TI  - Noninvasive assessment of pulmonary vascular resistance by Doppler echocardiography.
AB  - TRV/TVIRVOT is a reliable method to identify patients with elevated PVR. In patients with TRV/TVIRVOT > 0.275, PVR is likely > 6 WU, and PVRecho2 derived from TRV(2)/TVIRVOT provides an improved noninvasive estimate of PVR compared with PVRecho.

UI  - 23857547
TI  - In-hospital and 1-year mortality in patients undergoing early surgery for prosthetic valve endocarditis.
AB  - Prosthetic valve endocarditis remains associated with a high 1-year mortality rate. After adjustment for differences in clinical characteristics and survival bias, early valve replacement was not associated with lower mortality compared with medical therapy in the overall cohort. Further studies are needed to define the effect and timing of surgery in patients with PVE who have indications for surgery.

UI  - 23856711
TI  - Left ventricular activation imaging by 3-dimensional speckle-tracking echocardiography. Comparison with electrical activation mapping.
AB  - Activation imaging with 3D-STE may be a feasible noninvasive method of dyssynchrony imaging based on electromechanical coupling.

UI  - 23856209
TI  - Echocardiographic assessment of mitral durability in the late period following mitral valve repair: minithoracotomy versus conventional sternotomy.
AB  - A minithoracotomy approach for MV repair showed comparable clinical outcomes and efficacy to conventional sternotomy for MV repair.

UI  - 23856202
TI  - Different impact of sex on baseline characteristics and major periprocedural outcomes of transcatheter and surgical aortic valve interventions: Results of the multicenter Italian OBSERVANT Registry.
AB  - Female sex is a risk factor for mortality after aortic valve replacement, for major vascularcomplications after TAVI, and for transfusions after both approaches.

UI  - 23856201
TI  - Effect of systematic downsizing rigid ring annuloplasty in patients with moderate ischemic mitral regurgitation.
AB  - Although initially effective at reducing moderate FIMR, the addition of a ring did not change the clinical course after CABG surgery. At 12 months, no echocardiographic difference was found in terms of residual mitral regurgitation, left ventricular dimensions and function, or clinical outcomes.

UI  - 23855355
TI  - Polycystic ovary syndrome is associated with P-wave prolongation and increased P-wave dispersion.
AB  - Patients with PCOS have prolonged Pmax and Pdis. The increase in those parameters may be an indicator for identification of patients at increased risk of atrial fibrillation.

UI  - 23851988
TI  - Aortic valve replacement in geriatric patients with small aortic roots: are sutureless valves the future?
AB  - This study highlights the advantages of sutureless valves for geriatric patients with small aortic roots reflected by shorter cross-clamp and CPB times, even though most of these patients were operated on via a minimally invasive access. Moreover, due to the absence of a sewing ring, these valves are also almost stentless, with greater effective orifice area (EOA) for any given size. This may potentially result in better haemodynamics even without the root enlargement. This is of advantage, as several studies have shown that aortic root enlargement can significantly increase the risks of AVR. Moreover, as seen in this series, these valves may also enable a broader application of minimally invasive AVR.

UI  - 23851059
TI  - Clinical outcomes with synchronized left ventricular pacing: analysis of the adaptive CRT trial.
AB  - Higher %sLVP was independently associated with superior clinical outcomes. In patients with normal AV conduction, the aCRT algorithm provided mostly sLVP and demonstrated better clinical outcomes compared to echocardiography-optimized BVP.

UI  - 23850903
TI  - Influence of sex on risk stratification with stress myocardial perfusion Rb-82 positron emission tomography: Results from the PET (Positron Emission Tomography) Prognosis Multicenter Registry.
AB  - Stress Rb-82 PET provides significant and clinically meaningful effective risk stratification of women and men, supporting this modality as an alternative to comparative imaging modalities. Rb-82 PET findings were particularly helpful at identifying high-risk, older women.

UI  - 23838656
TI  - Systolic left ventricular function according to left ventricular concentricity and dilatation in hypertensive patients: the Losartan Intervention For Endpoint reduction in hypertension study.
AB  - The new four-group classification of LVH identifies dilated subgroups with reduced left ventricular function among patients currently classified with eccentric or concentric LVH.

UI  - 23838340
TI  - The influence of seasons and lunar cycle on hospital outcomes following ascending aortic dissection repair.
AB  - Season had no effect on mortality or LOS following aortic dissection repair, while patient age significantly increased the odds of death. The full-moon cycle appeared to reduce the odds of death, and the full-moon cycle, along with being male and requiring a concomitant cardiac procedure, was associated with shorter LOS.

UI  - 23832918
TI  - Evaluation of a tissue-engineered bovine pericardial patch in paediatric patients with congenital cardiac anomalies: initial experience with the ADAPT-treated CardioCel(R) patch.
AB  - This study demonstrates the safety and efficacy of this engineered bovine pericardial patch as a cardiovascular substitute for surgical repair of both simple and more complex congenital cardiac defects.

UI  - 23832383
TI  - Long-term outcomes of adjunctive complex fractionated electrogram ablation to pulmonary vein isolation as treatment for non-paroxysmal atrial fibrillation.
AB  - PVI+CFE ablation in non-paroxysmal AF appears to provide a reasonable proportion of arrhythmia-free patients during long-term follow-up. Poorer long-term results can be expected among female patients and those with an uninterrupted AF duration of > 4 years.

UI  - 23830536
TI  - Amlodipine reduces cardiac iron overload in patients with thalassemia major: a pilot trial.
AB  - The use of amlodipine in conjunction with standard chelation therapy may suggest a new strategy in preventing and treating iron overload in patients with thalassemia major, especially in organs where iron absorption depends on active uptake by calcium channels like the heart.

UI  - 23829646
TI  - Cardiovascular health profile of elite female football players compared to untrained controls before and after short-term football training.
AB  - This study examined the intermittent exercise performance and cardiovascular health profile in elite female football players in comparison to untrained young women, as well as a subgroup subjected to football training 2x1 h  week(-1) for 16 weeks. Twenty-seven Danish national team players (elite trained, ET) and 28 untrained women (UT) underwent dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry-scanning (DXA), comprehensive transthoracic echocardiography, treadmill and Yo-Yo Intermittent Endurance level 2 (IE2) testing. Eight women in UT were also tested after the football training period. Maximal oxygen uptake rate (VO2max), peak ventilation and peak lactate were 40, 18 and 51% higher (P< 0.01) in ET than UT, respectively. Cardiac dimensions and function were greater in ET than UT, with left ventricular diastolic diameter, right ventricular diastolic diameter, tricuspid annular plane systolic excursion (TAPSE) and peak transmitral flow in early diastole divided by peak transmitral flow velocity in late diastole during atrial contraction (E/A-ratio) being 13, 19, 27 and 41%, respectively, greater in ET than UT (P< 0.001 to< 0.05). Yo-Yo IE2 performance was 7-fold higher in ET than UT (1772  508 vs. 234  66 m, P< 0.001), fat mass was 51% lower (P< 0.001) and high density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol levels were 20% higher (P< 0.01). Sixteen weeks of football elevated VO2max and Yo-Yo IE2 performance by 16 and 40%, respectively, and lowered fat mass by 6%. Cardiac function was markedly improved by 16 weeks of football training with 26 and 46% increases in TAPSE and E/A ratio, respectively, reaching levels comparable to ET. In summary, elite female football players have a superior cardiovascular health profile and intermittent exercise performance compared to untrained controls, but short-term football training can markedly improve the cardiovascular health status.

UI  - 23829576
TI  - Cardiovascular effects of 3 months of football training in overweight children examined by comprehensive echocardiography: a pilot study.
AB  - We examined effects of a 3-month football training programme in overweight children using comprehensive echocardiography and peripheral arterial tonometry. Twenty preadolescent overweight children (17 boys, 3 girls aged 8-12 yrs; body mass index [BMI]  85(th) percentile) participated in a structured 3-month football training programme, consisting of 4 weekly 60-90 min sessions with mean heart rate (HR) > 80% of HRmax (football group, FG). A parallel control group (CG) included 11 children (7 boys, 4 girls) of equivalent age from an obesity clinic. After 3 months, systolic blood pressure was unchanged in FG, but had increased in CG (112 [s 6] vs. 122 [10] mmHg, P = 0.02). FG demonstrated increased left ventricular (LV) posterior wall diameter (0.60 [0.07] vs. 0.68 [0.10] cm, P < 0.001) and an improved right ventricular systolic function determined by tricuspid annular plane systolic excursion (TAPSE, 2.01 [0.29] vs. 2.27 [0.28] cm, P = 0.003). Measures of LV systolic function showed only discrete alterations and two-dimensional (2D) global strain was not changed. After 3 months, global isovolumetric relaxation time (IVRTglobal) had increased in FG (64.0 [7.5] vs. 73.9 [9.4] ms, P < 0.001) while other examined LV diastolic function variables were not altered. No echocardiographic changes were observed in CG. Between-group differences in pre-post delta values were observed for systolic blood pressure, TAPSE, and IVRTglobal (P = 0.02-0.03). We conclude that short-term football training may have positive structural and functional effects on the cardiovascular system in overweight preadolescent children.

UI  - 23827406
TI  - Comparison of different electrocardiographic scoring systems for detection of any previous myocardial infarction as assessed with cardiovascular magnetic resonance imaging.
AB  - Although electrocardiography is frequently used as an initial test to detect or rule out previous myocardial infarction (MI), the diagnostic performance of commonly used electrocardiographic scoring systems is not well described. We aimed to determine the diagnostic accuracy of (1) the Universal Definition, (2) Minnesota ECG Code (MC), (3) Selvester QRS Score, and (4) assessment by cardiologists using late gadolinium enhancement cardiovascular magnetic resonance imaging as the reference standard. Additionally, the effect of electrocardiographic patterns and infarct characteristics on detecting previous MI was evaluated. The 3-month follow-up electrocardiograms of 78 patients with first-time reperfused ST elevation MI were pooled with electrocardiograms of 36 healthy controls. All 114 electrocardiograms were randomly analyzed, blinded to clinical and LGE-CMR data. The sensitivity of the Universal Definition, MC, Selvester QRS Score, and cardiologists todetect previous MI was 33%, 79%, 90%, and 67%, respectively; specificity 97%, 72%, 31%, and 89%, respectively; diagnostic accuracy 54%, 77%, 71%, and 74%, respectively. Probability of detecting MI by cardiologists increased with an increasing number (odds ratio [OR] 2.00, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.30 to 3.09), width (OR 1.02, 95% CI 1.01 to 1.03), and depth (OR 1.16, 95% CI 1.07 to 1.27) of Q waves as well as increasing infarct size (OR 1.15, 95% CI 1.06 to 1.25) and transmurality (OR 1.05, 95% CI 1.01 to 1.08; p <0.05 for all). The time-consuming MC and rapid visual assessment by cardiologists achieved the best and similar diagnostic accuracies to detect previous MI. The diagnostic performance of all 4 electrocardiographic scoring systems was modest and related to the number, depth, and width of Q waves as well as increasing infarct size and transmurality. In conclusion, the exclusion of a previous MI based solely on electrocardiographic findings should be done with caution. Future studies are needed to define which patients should be referred to additional diagnostic testing.

UI  - 23826245
TI  - Vector selection of a quadripolar left ventricular pacing lead affects acute hemodynamic response to cardiac resynchronization therapy: a randomized cross-over trial.
AB  - The pacing configuration of a quadripolar LV lead determinates acute hemodynamic response. Pacing in the individually optimized configuration gives rise to an additional absolute 10% increase in %LV+dP/dtmax when comparing optimal and worst vectors.

UI  - 23826161
TI  - Angiopoietin-2 in adults with congenital heart disease and heart failure.
AB  - The performance of Ang-2 as a biomarker for heart failure in ACHD is comparable to NT-proBNP. Its significant elevation in patients with single ventricle physiology indicates potential in this patient group and warrants further studies.

UI  - 23824978
TI  - Safety of long-term treatment with cabergoline on cardiac valve disease in patients with prolactinomas.
AB  - CAB does not increase the risk of significant cardiac valve regurgitation in prolactinomas after the first 5 years of treatment.

UI  - 23824662
TI  - Effect of sugammadex on QT/QTc interval prolongation when combined with QTc-prolonging sevoflurane or propofol anaesthesia.
AB  - Sugammadex 4 mg/kg does not cause clinically relevant QTc interval prolongation versus placebo when combined with propofol or sevoflurane.

UI  - 23823195
TI  - Sildenafil exposure and hemodynamic effect after stage II single-ventricle surgery.
AB  - Sildenafil demonstrated nonlinear exposure with high interindividual variability but was well tolerated and effectively lowered pulmonary vascular resistance index in all subjects. Sildenafil did not acutely improve myocardial performance or increase cardiac index.

UI  - 23822568
TI  - Left atrial responses to acute right ventricular apical pacing in patients with sick sinus syndrome.
AB  - Chronic right ventricular apical (RVA) pacing can lead to an increased risk of heart failure and atrial fibrillation, but the acute effects of RVA pacing on left atrial (LA) function are not well known. Twenty-four patients with sick sinus syndrome and intact intrinsic atrioventricular conduction were included. All patients received dual-chamber pacemaker implants with the atrial lead in the right atrial appendage and the ventricular lead in the right ventricular (RV) apex. Transthoracic standard and strain echocardiography (measured by tissue Doppler imaging and speckle tracking image) were performed to identify functional changes in the left ventricle (LV) and LA before and after 1hour of RVA pacing. The LA volume index did not change after pacing; however, the ratio of peak early diastolic mitral flow velocity (E) to peak early diastolic mitral annular velocity (Ea) was significantly increased and peak systolic LA strain (Sm), mean peak systolic LA strain rate (SmSR), peak early diastolic LA strain rate (EmSR), and peak late diastolic LA strain rate (AmSR) were significantly reduced after RV pacing. LV dyssynchrony, induced by RV pacing, had a significant correlation with E/Ea, Sm, and SmSR after pacing. E/Ea also had a negative correlation with Sm and SmSR after pacing. Multivariate regression analysis identified LV dyssynchrony and E/Ea as important factors that affect Sm, SmSR, EmSR, and AmSR after acute RVA pacing. Acute RVA pacing results in LA functional change and LV dyssynchrony and higher LV filling pressures reflected by E/Ea are important causes of LA dysfunction after acute RVA pacing.

UI  - 23820710
TI  - A prospective, multicenter study of bovine pericardium membrane with cancellous particulate allograft for localized alveolar ridge augmentation.
AB  - Resorption of the alveolar ridge may lead to ridge deformities that make dental implant placement difficult or impossible. Augmentation of the alveolar ridge may restore appropriate ridge form to allow implant placement. Forty-four patients with edentulous spaces completed this multicenter prospective trial to clinically and radiographically evaluate the efficacy of a bovine pericardium membrane and a particulate mineralized cancellous bone allograft in promoting lateral ridge augmentation. Overall, 38 of 44 patients (86.4%) were able to receive dental implants in the appropriate restoratively driven position 6 months after ridge augmentation. The mean gain in clinical ridge width after augmentation was 2.61 mm, while radiographically the mean gain in ridge width was 1.65 mm at a level 3 mm apical to the bony crest and 1.93 mm at a level 6 mm apical to the crest. On average, approximately 50% of the graft material added horizontally during surgery was displaced or resorbed during healing. Histomorphometric evaluation of cores taken from the augmented ridge at 6 months revealed that approximately 58% of the tissue volume was vital bone, with 12% residual allograft particles and 30% nonmineralized tissue.

UI  - 23820669
TI  - Thyroid hormone signalling is altered in response to physical training in patients with end-stage heart failure and mechanical assist devices: potential physiological consequences?
AB  - The unloaded failing myocardium responded to physical training by enhancing thyroid hormone signalling. This response was associated with an up-regulation of Akt and suppression of JNK activation.

UI  - 23818121
TI  - Acute changes in electromechanical parameters during different pacing configurations using a quadripolar left ventricular lead.
AB  - In CRT patients receiving a quadripolar LV lead, significant variations in electromechanical parameters were observed by changing pacing vector. Individually targeting the optimal pacing site may enhance the acute haemodynamic response to CRT.

UI  - 23815538
TI  - A hypertensive response to exercise is prominent in patients with obstructive sleep apnea and hypertension: a controlled study.
AB  - Blood pressure (BP) behavior during exercise is not clear in hypertensive patients with obstructive sleep apnea (OSA). The authors studied 57 men with newly diagnosed essential hypertension and untreated OSA (apnea-hypopnea index [AHI]5) but without daytime sleepiness (Epworth Sleepiness Scale score10), and an equal number of hypertensive controls without OSA matched for age, body mass index, and office systolic BP. All patients underwent ambulatory BP measurements, transthoracic echocardiography, and exercise treadmill testing according to the Bruce protocol. A hypertensive response to exercise (HRE) was defined as peak systolic BP 210mm Hg. Patients with OSA and control patients had similar ambulatory and resting BP, ejection fraction, and left ventricular mass. Peak systolic BP was significantly higher in patients with OSA (197.625.6mm Hg vs 187.823.6mm Hg; P=.03), while peak diastolic BP and heart rate did not differ between groups. Furthermore, an HRE was more prevalent in patients with OSA (44% vs 19%; P=.009). Multiple logistic regression revealed that an HRE is independently predicted by both the logAHI and minimum oxygen saturation during sleep (odds ratio, 3.94; confidence interval, 1.69-9.18; P=.001 and odds ratio, 0.94; confidence interval, 0.89-0.99; P=.02, respectively). Exaggerated BP response is more prevalent in nonsleepy hypertensives with OSA compared with their nonapneic counterparts. This finding may have distinct diagnostic and prognostic implications.

UI  - 23813627
TI  - Association of baseline C-reactive protein levels with periprocedural myocardial injury in patients undergoing percutaneous bifurcation intervention: a CACTUS study subanalysis.
AB  - In the setting of true coronary bifurcations treated by DES, baseline CRP levels were significantly associated with both the incidence and the extent of PMI.

UI  - 23811752
TI  - Age-, body size-, and sex-specific reference values for right ventricular volumes and ejection fraction by three-dimensional echocardiography: a multicenter echocardiographic study in 507 healthy volunteers.
AB  - The presented normative ranges and equations could help standardize the 3D echocardiography assessment of RV volumes and function in clinical practice, considering the effects of age, sex, and body size.

UI  - 23811290
TI  - In vivo human time-exposure study of orally dosed commercial silver nanoparticles.
AB  - In this study, the effects of commercially available nanoparticles were studied in healthy volunteers, concluding no detectable toxicity with the utilized comprehensive assays and tests. As the authors rightfully state, further studies are definitely warranted. Studies like this are much needed for the more widespread application of nanomedicine.

UI  - 23809772
TI  - Do spectral bands of fetal heart rate variability associate with concomitant fetal scalp pH?
AB  - This study shows that spectral powers of FHR variability change as a fetus becomes hypoxic, and that spectral powers decrease with deepening fetal acidemia.

UI  - 23806196
TI  - Accuracy and clinical outcomes of computed tomography coronary angiography in the presence of a high coronary calcium score.
AB  - In patients with an elevated coronary calcium score, a negative CTCA implies an excellent short-term outcome and appears to exclude clinically significant coronary disease.

UI  - 23803236
TI  - Complete preservation of the mitral valve apparatus during mitral valve replacement for rheumatic mitral regurgitation in patients with an enlarged left ventricular chamber.
AB  - This study shows that complete mitral leaflet preservation at the native anatomical position during MVR is feasible in rheumatic patients with an enlarged left ventricular chamber and confers significant short-term and long-term advantages by preserving left ventricular function and geometry. Therefore, it is a safe, simple, and effective surgical technique and should be individualized during clinical use.

UI  - 23800507
TI  - Myocardial mechanical remodeling after septal myectomy for severe obstructive hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.
AB  - In patients with HOCM, surgical myectomy alleviated symptoms, relieved obstruction, and decreased left atrial volume index. Longitudinal strain remained unchanged, but circumferential strain and rotation decreased, demonstrating different mechanical adaptations to chronic elevated afterload seen in patients with severe aortic stenosis undergoing valve replacement. Disease extent (age, posterior wall involvement) and the presence of diastolic dysfunction seem to be related to partial symptomatic response to myectomy.

UI  - 23800364
TI  - Speckle tracking echocardiographic analysis of left ventricular systolic and diastolic functions of young elite athletes with eccentric and concentric type of cardiac remodeling.
AB  - Overall, conventional echocardiography can detect some differences between young athletes with eccentric and concentric type of athlete's heart but it is incapable of revealing differences in intrinsic myocardial functions. However, analysis using STE demonstrated increased systolic functions in athletes commensurate with increased load, with unaltered diastolic functions.

UI  - 23798213
TI  - Minimally invasive aortic valve replacement with self-anchoring Perceval valve.
AB  - This trial highlights the advantages of the Perceval S self-anchoring valve which, technically is a more reproducible alternative for minimally invasive AVR. As the valve does not need to be sutured, the limited exposure is not a disadvantage even in patients with calcified or small aortic roots. This also potentially reduces the cross-clamp and ECC-times. This valve may enable a broader application of minimally invasive AVR.

UI  - 23798209
TI  - Outcomes of transcatheter aortic valve implantation compared to surgical aortic valve replacement following previous surgery.
AB  - Improved risk stratification and its understanding in patients with aortic valve disease and previous cardiac surgery is required. Despite the perceived high risks in the surgically treated group, there were no deaths and redo surgery patients had lower rates of stroke and pacemaker implantation than did those who underwent TAVI.

UI  - 23797430
TI  - Pulmonary artery growth in univentricular physiology patients.
AB  - The relative decrease of the size of pulmonary arteries in the inter-stage period (between bidirectional Glenn anastomosis and Fontan completion) and after Fontan completion may indicate that pulmonary artery sizes should probably not bean absolute limiting factor in the decision on treatment of functionally UVH patients, especially at the stage of Fontan approach.

UI  - 23796618
TI  - Surgical vs. transcatheter pulmonary vein isolation as first invasive treatment in patients with atrial fibrillation: a matched group comparison.
AB  - In present matched study comparing a surgical with transcatheter PVI treatment strategy in symptomatic AF patients failed on AADs, but without prior ablations, a surgical PVI strategy was more effective to prevent recurrence of atrial arrhythmias, than a transcatheter PVI treatment strategy. However, complications were more frequent with surgical PVI.

UI  - 23796259
TI  - A multi-country study of the "intrapartum stillbirth and early neonatal death indicator" in hospitals in low-resource settings.
AB  - The results demonstrated that it is possible to accurately determine fetal viability on admission via a doptone. Implementation of doptone use, coupled with a concise data record, might form the basis of a low-cost and sustainable program to monitor and evaluate efforts to improve quality of care and ultimately might help to reduce the in-hospital component of perinatal mortality in low-income countries.

UI  - 23791061
TI  - [Protective effect of cold autologous blood cardioplegic solution on the heart of infants with cyanotic congenital heart disease].
AB  - Cold autologous blood cardioplegic solution is superior to HTK and cold non-autologous blood cardioplegic solutions in preserving myocardial energy and reducing myocardial injury in infants with CCHD who undergo CPB, thus providing a better protective effect on the heart.

UI  - 23794519
TI  - Comparison of pharmacological and electrical cardioversion in permanent atrial fibrillation after prosthetic cardiac valve replacement: a prospective randomized trial.
AB  - Electrical cardioversion has a favourable safety profile and appears to be a more effective method than pharmacological cardioversion for the treatment of permanent AF after cardiac valve replacement, once the heart has returned close to its normal size.

UI  - 23793444
TI  - Left atrial pressure as predictor for recurrence of atrial fibrillation after pulmonary vein isolation.
AB  - LA pressure, AF type, and LA volume index are independent predictors for recurrence of AF after PVI. LA pressure may be helpful especially in patients with small atria, where AF type is not predictive.

UI  - 23791116
TI  - Mitral annular displacement by Doppler tissue imaging may identify coronary occlusion and predict mortality in patients with non-ST-elevation myocardial infarction.
AB  - MAD accurately identified patients with NSTEMIs, predicted mortality, and identified coronary occlusion in patients with NSTEMIs.

UI  - 23788339
TI  - Evaluation of left atrial function using two-dimensional speckle tracking echocardiography in end-stage renal disease patients with preserved left ventricular ejection fraction.
AB  - The results of our study have demonstrated that LA myocardial function assessed using the 2D-STE method is associated with the ePCWP, which is an echocardiographically calculated marker of LV dysfunction. The LA deformation parameters may be used as echocardiographic findings to predict the LV dysfunction in ESRD patients with PLVEF. Further studies are needed to determine the independent prognostic power of the atrial strain measurement as a predictor of future cardiovascular events in ESRD patients.

UI  - 23788089
TI  - The combined use of transmyocardial laser revascularisation and intramyocardial injection of bone-marrow derived stem cells in patients with end-stage coronary artery disease: one year follow-up.
AB  - Intramyocardial delivery of bone marrow stem-cells together with laser therapy is a safe procedure, with improvement in quality of life during follow-up. One year after the procedure, myocardial regions where BMLR was performed tended to demonstrate stronger myocardial thickening observed in cardiac magnetic resonance imaging.

UI  - 23787903
TI  - QT variability during initial exposure to sotalol: experience based on a large electronic medical record.
AB  - In this EMR-based cohort, the increase in QTc with sotalol initiation was highly variable, and multiple clinical factors contributed. These data represent an important step in ongoing work to identify real-world patients likely to tolerate long-term therapy and reinforces the utility of EMR-based cohorts as research tools.

UI  - 23786856
TI  - Maximum electrogram-guided ablation of cavotricuspid isthmus-dependent atrial flutter.
AB  - During ablation of AFL, directly targeting muscle bundles in the CTI as guided by the highest electrograms is more efficient than making a linear lesion across the entire CTI, since using the former approach needed less RF application, shorter fluoroscopy and procedure times than using the latter. The max electrogram-guided approach may be recommended for routine clinical use to replace the conventional linear ablation approach.

UI  - 23784944
TI  - Echocardiographic features defining right dominant unbalanced atrioventricular septal defect: a multi-institutional Congenital Heart Surgeons' Society study.
AB  - The angle of right ventricle/LV inflow and other surrogates of inflow may be important defining echocardiographic measures of right dominant unbalanced AVSD, although confirmation is needed.

UI  - 23782138
TI  - Is extubation associated with changes in ductal and pulmonary blood flow in extremely preterm neonates?
AB  - Early extubation was not associated with a significant change from baseline in ductal and pulmonary flow in extremely preterm infants.

UI  - 23775853
TI  - A phase 1 comparative pharmacokinetic and cardiac safety study of two intravenous formulations of CO-101 in patients with advanced solid tumors.
AB  - 

UI  - 23774331
TI  - Ratio of transmitral E-wave velocity to early diastole mitral annulus velocity with cardiovascular and renal outcomes in chronic kidney disease.
AB  - Our study in patients of CKD stages 3-5 demonstrated the high E/Ea was associated with increased cardiovascular events and progression to dialysis. Assessment of the E/Ea by Doppler echocardiography is useful for predicting the risk of adverse cardiovascular and renal outcomes in CKD patients.

UI  - 23770788
TI  - Effect of allopurinol on oxidative stress and hypoxic adaptation response during surgical correction of tetralogy of fallot.
AB  - pre-surgical oral allopurinol treatment reduced ischemia-reperfusion injury during TF surgical correction, as indicated by the decrease in the number of cardiomyocytes expressing ROS, reducing TNF-, SOD, and MDA concentration in blood. There was a decrease in HIF-1 concentration in cardiomyocytes of the right ventricle during ischemic phase.

UI  - 23770175
TI  - Effect of overweight and obesity on cardiovascular events in asymptomatic aortic stenosis: a SEAS substudy (Simvastatin Ezetimibe in Aortic Stenosis).
AB  - In patients with initially asymptomatic AS participating in the SEAS study, overweight and obesity did not influenceASprogression or rate of AS-related or ischemic CV events but were both associated with increased mortality.

UI  - 23769403
TI  - Initial French experience of percutaneous mitral valve repair with the MitraClip: a multicentre national registry.
AB  - This initial French experience, despite being in its learning phase, showed promising results in patients considered ineligible for surgery, as observed in more experienced centres. Randomized studies are mandatory to confirm these preliminary data.

UI  - 23765601
TI  - Urinary trypsin inhibitor attenuated inflammatory response of patients undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass by inducing activated Treg cells.
AB  - The urinary trypsin inhibitor (ulinastatin) is used in the clinic to prevent inflammatory responses in patients undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB); however, the anti-inflammatory mechanism is unclear. In the current study, we recruited 40 patients undergoing selective cardiac valve replacement surgery; and these patients were randomly divided into two groups (ulinastatin group [UG] and control group [CG]). We collected peripheral blood preoperatively, at the end of CPB, and postoperative days 1 and 3 and analyzed the kinetic changes in regulatory T (Treg) cell subsets. There was no statistically significant difference in the number of CD4(+) T cells between the two groups. The number of CD4(+)CD25(+) Treg cells, especially the suppressive activated Treg (aTreg) subset, was higher in the UG than the CG 1 and 3 days postoperatively. Thus, ulinastatin alleviated the inflammatory response during CPB by inducing the expansion of aTreg cells.

UI  - 23764734
TI  - Impaired cardiometabolic responses to glucagon-like peptide 1 in obesity and type 2 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - Glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) has insulin-like effects on myocardial glucose uptake which may contribute to its beneficial effects in the setting of myocardial ischemia. Whether these effects are different in the setting of obesity or type 2 diabetes (T2DM) requires investigation. We examined the cardiometabolic actions of GLP-1 (7-36) in lean and obese/T2DM humans, and in lean and obese Ossabaw swine. GLP-1 significantly augmented myocardial glucose uptake under resting conditions in lean humans, but this effect was impaired in T2DM. This observation was confirmed and extended in swine, where GLP-1 effects to augment myocardial glucose uptake during exercise were seen in lean but not in obese swine. GLP-1 did not increase myocardial oxygen consumption or blood flow in humans or in swine. Impaired myocardial responsiveness to GLP-1 in obesity was not associated with any apparent alterations in myocardial or coronary GLP1-R expression. No evidence for GLP-1-mediated activation of cAMP/PKA or AMPK signaling in lean or obese hearts was observed. GLP-1 treatment augmented p38-MAPK activity in lean, but not obese cardiac tissue. Taken together, these data provide novel evidence indicating that the cardiometabolic effects of GLP-1 are attenuated in obesity and T2DM, via mechanisms that may involve impaired p38-MAPK signaling.

UI  - 23752338
TI  - Morphological and functional measurements of the heart obtained by magnetic resonance imaging in Brazilians.
AB  - This study has described, for the first time, cardiac measurements obtained through the cardiac magnetic resonance imaging in Brazilians, asymptomatic, with no cardiomyopathies, showing differences in accordance with gender and age.

UI  - 23751936
TI  - Transfemoral aortic valve implantation in patients with an annulus dimension suitable for either the Edwards valve or the CoreValve.
AB  - The aim of this study was to compare the outcomes of transcatheter aortic valve implantation using the Edwards SAPIEN valve and the Medtronic CoreValve in patients with annulus of intermediate size (20 to 25 mm). From October 2008 to April 2012, 662 consecutive patients who underwent transcatheter aortic valve implantation were studied at 2 French centers. After propensity score matching, a total of 192 patients with intermediate-sized aortic annulus who had received either Edwards (n = 96, mean age 82.4  7.9 years, 48% men, 61.9% receiving the 26-mm valve) or CoreValve (n = 96, mean age 82.5  7.7 years, 50% men, 64.6% receiving the 29-mm valve) prostheses through the transfemoral approach were studied. Adequate reduction in postprocedural mean pressure gradients was achieved with the Edwards valve and the CoreValve (10.9  4.7 vs 9.1  4.4 mm Hg, respectively, p <0.01). Major vascular complications (5.2% vs 3.1%, p = 0.36), device success (95.8% vs 93.8%, p = 0.52), and 30-day survival (90.6% vs 89.6%, p = 0.81) were similar. The incidence of postprocedural aortic regurgitation grade 2/4 and new pacemaker implantation was more frequent in the CoreValve group (14.3% vs 35.5%, p <0.01, and 4.2% vs 18.8%, p <0.01, respectively). There was no significant difference in 1-year cumulative survival rates in the Edwards valve group compared with the CoreValve group (80.1  4.2% vs 75.6  4.9%, log-rank p = 0.31). In conclusion, in patients with annulus of intermediate size, similar device success and short-term and midterm outcomes were achieved with either of the valves, irrespective of the specific complications related to each valve.

UI  - 23751113
TI  - Percutaneous endocardial occlusion of incompletely surgically ligated left atrial appendage.
AB  - Percutaneous endocardial occlusion of ISLL is feasible using an Amplatzer Septal Occluder device. Additional studies are required to evaluate the long-term safety and efficacy of this therapeutic treatment strategy in patients with ISLL.

UI  - 23750778
TI  - Mitral isthmus ablation is feasible, efficacious, and safe using a remote robotic catheter system.
AB  - It is feasible and safe to use a remote RCS for MI ablation, including "driving into the CS." MI block was achieved in 98% with a significant reduction in the need for CS ablation (48%). There is a short learning curve.

UI  - 23749779
TI  - Assessment of valve haemodynamics, reverse ventricular remodelling and myocardial fibrosis following transcatheter aortic valve implantation compared to surgical aortic valve replacement: a cardiovascular magnetic resonance study.
AB  - TAVI was comparable to SAVR at LV reverse remodelling and superior at reducing the valvular pressure gradient and MF. Future work should assess the prognostic importance of reverse remodelling and fibrosis post-TAVI to aid patient selection.

UI  - 23748467
TI  - Anatomical and procedural features associated with aortic root rupture during balloon-expandable transcatheter aortic valve replacement.
AB  - This study demonstrates that LVOT calcification and aggressive annular area oversizing are associated with an increased risk of aortic root rupture during TAVR with balloon-expandable prostheses. Larger studies are warranted to confirm these findings.

UI  - 23745440
TI  - [An index internal diameter ductus arteriosus/body surface area as a need for closure of duct in the preterm newborn].
AB  - It is important to take into account a number of known ways to assess whether the DA is hemodynamically significant and therefore should be closed medically or surgically and according to this study, a parameter to requiring its closure is an index ID DA/BSA with a value > 14.

UI  - 23744849
TI  - Lone atrial fibrillation as a positive predictor of left atrial volume reduction following ablation of atrial fibrillation.
AB  - Based on the subgroup of patients with lone AF, PVI leads to a significant LAVR 4 months after the procedure, especially in patients with clinical success in terms of AF freedom. Comorbidities such as arterial hypertension may prevent this reverse atrial remodelling, despite AF freedom. Clinical implications need to be further elucidated.

UI  - 23742676
TI  - Evaluation of atrial electromechanical delay and diastolic functions in patients with hyperthyroidism.
AB  - This study showed that intra- and inter-atrial electromechanical intervals were prolonged and diastolic function was impaired in both overt and subclinical hyperthyroidism. TSH level and mitral Em /Am ratio were found as independent predictors of atrial EMD.

UI  - 23742658
TI  - Coronary flow reserve and myocardial performance index in newly diagnosed diabetic patients.
AB  - The MPI was independently associated with CFR in newly diagnosed diabetic patients. The decrease in CFR may cause LV systolic and diastolic dysfunction in asymptomatic diabetic patients.

UI  - 23742214
TI  - Identification of left atrial ganglionated plexi by dense epicardial mapping as ablation targets for the treatment of concomitant atrial fibrillation.
AB  - Dense epicardial mapping in the potential GP areas identified active GP locations in a high percentage of patients. GPs between the PVs and interatrial groove have a high potential as ablation targets for treatment of concomitant AF.

UI  - 23742176
TI  - Evaluation of correlation between aortic elastic parameters and atrial electromechanical abnormalities in hypertensive patients.
AB  - This study demonstrated that intra-left AEMD was increased in hypertensive patients and aortic elastic parameters was correlated with intra-left AEMD. These findings may be related to similar structural and functional changes in heart and aorta in hypertension.

UI  - 23741380
TI  - Postoperative neurocognitive dysfunction in patients undergoing cardiac surgery after remote ischemic preconditioning: a double-blind randomized controlled pilot study.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00877305.

UI  - 23740194
TI  - Effects of triple antioxidant therapy on measures of cardiovascular autonomic neuropathy and on myocardial blood flow in type 1 diabetes: a randomised controlled trial.
AB  - In this cohort of type 1 diabetes patients with mild-to-moderate CAN, a combination antioxidant treatment regimen did not prevent progression of CAN, had no beneficial effects on myocardial perfusion or DPN, and may have been detrimental. However, a larger study is necessary to assess the underlying causes of these findings.

UI  - 23739532
TI  - Chronic amiodarone therapy impairs the function of the superior sinoatrial node in patients with atrial fibrillation.
AB  - In a quarter of the AF patients, amiodarone causes superior SAN dysfunction, which results in a downward shift of the EAS and reduced P-wave amplitude in leads II, III and aVF at baseline and during isoproterenol infusion.

UI  - 23736649
TI  - Feasibility study of the pharmacology of local application of amifostine (WR-2721) to the buccal mucosa in guinea pigs.
AB  - It is feasible to administer topical amifostine (WR-2721) to mucosa to prevent radiation-induced oral mucositis, and systemic absorption is negligible. Relatively high concentrations of amifostine in human saliva in vitro were maintained, although some inconsistent changes are observed.

UI  - 23736111
TI  - Exercise training reduces peripheral arterial stiffness and myocardial oxygen demand in young prehypertensive subjects.
AB  - This study suggests that both resistance and endurance exercise alone effectively reduce peripheral arterial stiffness, central blood pressures, augmentation index, and myocardial oxygen demand in young prehypertensive subjects.

UI  - 23736042
TI  - Surgical RF ablation of atrial fibrillation in patients undergoing mitral valve repair for Barlow disease.
AB  - Results from our investigation suggest that radiofrequency ablation of AF in patients with Barlow disease undergoing MVR for severe regurgitation is effective and should be considered in every patient with Barlow disease and AF undergoing valve surgical repair.

UI  - 23735649
TI  - A simple echocardiographic method to estimate pulmonary vascular resistance.
AB  - Pulmonary hypertension includes heterogeneous diagnoses with distinct hemodynamic pathophysiologic features. Identifying elevated pulmonary vascular resistance (PVR) is critical for appropriate treatment. We reviewed data from patients seen at referral pulmonary hypertension clinics who had undergone echocardiography and right-side cardiac catheterization within 1 year. We derived equations to estimate PVR using the ratio of estimated pulmonary artery (PA) systolic pressure (PASPDoppler) to right ventricular outflow tract velocity time integral (VTI). We validated these equations in a separate sample and compared them with a published model based on the ratio of the transtricuspid flow velocity to right ventricular outflow tract VTI (model 1, Abbas et al 2003). The derived models were as follows: PVR = 1.2  (PASP/right ventricular outflow tract VTI) (model 2) and PVR = (PASP/right ventricular outflow tract VTI) + 3 if notch present (model 3). The cohort included 217 patients with mean PA pressure of 45.3  11.9 mm Hg, PVR of 7.3  5.0 WU, and PA wedge pressure of 14.8  8.1 mm Hg. Just >1/3 had a PA wedge pressure >15 mm Hg (35.5%) and 82.0% had PVR >3 WU. Model 1 systematically underestimated catheterization estimated PVR, especially for those with high PVR. The derived models demonstrated no systematic bias. Model 3 correlated best with PVR (r = 0.80 vs r = 0.73 and r = 0.77 for models 1 and 2, respectively). Model 3 had superior discriminatory power for PVR >3 WU (area under the curve 0.946) and PVR >5 WU (area under the curve 0.924), although all models discriminated well. Model 3-estimated PVR >3 was 98.3% sensitive and 61.1% specific for PVR >3 WU (positive predictive value 93%; negative predictive value 88%). In conclusion, we present an equation to estimate the PVR, using the ratio of PASPDoppler to right ventricular outflow tract VTI and a constant designating presence of right ventricular outflow tract VTI midsystolic notching, which provides superior agreement with catheterization estimates of PVR across a wide range of values.

UI  - 23732173
TI  - Individually optimized hemodynamic therapy reduces complications and length of stay in the intensive care unit: a prospective, randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Early goal-directed hemodynamic therapy based on cardiac index, stroke volume variation, and optimized global end-diastolic volume index reduces complications and length of ICU stay after cardiac surgery.

UI  - 23731922
TI  - Effect on periprocedural myocardial infarction of intra-coronary nicorandil prior to percutaneous coronary intervention in stable and unstable angina.
AB  - Intra-coronary nicorandil infusion had no significant effect on PMI and cardiac enzymes after PCI in patients with stable or unstable angina.

UI  - 23731775
TI  - Angiotensin II blockade, YKL-40 and maintenance of sinus rhythm after electrical cardioversion for atrial fibrillation.
AB  - High levels of the novel inflammatory marker YKL-40 have been demonstrated in inflammatory environments and in remodeling of the extracellular matrix. Both are key components in atrial wall remodeling in atrial fibrillation (AF). We studied the relation between rhythm outcome after electrical cardioversion (ECV) for persistent AF and serum levels of YKL-40. A secondary point of interest was a potential effect of the angiotensin receptor blocker candesartan on YKL-40 levels. In the Candesartan in the Prevention of Relapsing Atrial Fibrillation (CAPRAF) study, 171 patients with persistent AF were randomized to receive candesartan 8mg once daily or placebo for 3-6 weeks before ECV and candesartan 16mg once daily or placebo for 6 months after ECV. Serum levels of YKL-40 were measured in fasting blood samples collected at baseline and at end of the study. Mean age was 6411 years, and 39 (22.8%) were women. Sinus rhythm was maintained for 6 months after ECV in 41 (23.9%). Baseline levels of YKL-40 were significantly correlated to age (Spearmans rho; rs=0.442; p<0.001), CHA2DS2-VASc(1) score (rs=0.256; p<0.001) and left atrial diameter (rs=0.185; p=0.017). By use of Kaplan-Meier quartile analysis of baseline YKL-40 levels, no relation between YKL-40 levels and risk of AF recurrence was found. End of study YKL-40 levels were unchanged from baseline, both in patients with AF recurrence and those maintaining sinus rhythm for 6 months. Treatment with candesartan had no influence on serum YKL-40 levels.

UI  - 23731606
TI  - Ventricular assist device implant in the elderly is associated with increased, but respectable risk: a multi-institutional study.
AB  - Multi-institutional analysis revealed advanced age as a predictor of increased mortality after CF LVAD implantation. Careful patient selection is critical in the elderly to optimize long-term outcomes after CF LVAD implantation.

UI  - 23727090
TI  - Validation of novel 3-dimensional electrocardiographic mapping of atrial tachycardias by invasive mapping and ablation: a multicenter study.
AB  - This prospective multicenter series shows a high success rate of ECM in accurately diagnosing the mechanism of AT and the location of focal arrhythmia. Intraprocedural use of the system and its application to atrial fibrillation mapping is under way.

UI  - 23726115
TI  - The UK HeartSpare Study: randomised evaluation of voluntary deep-inspiratory breath-hold in women undergoing breast radiotherapy.
AB  - v_DIBH and ABC_DIBH are comparable in terms of positional reproducibility and normal tissue sparing. v_DIBH is preferred by patients and radiographers, takes less time to deliver, and is cheaper than ABC_DIBH.

UI  - 23725996
TI  - Relation between six-minute walk test performance and outcomes after transcatheter aortic valve implantation (from the PARTNER trial).
AB  - Functional capacity as assessed by 6-minute walk test distance (6MWTD) has been shown to predict outcomes in selected cohorts with cardiovascular disease. To evaluate the association between 6MWTD and outcomes after transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) among participants in the Placement of AoRTic TraNscathetER valve (PARTNER) trial, TAVI recipients (n = 484) were stratified into 3 groups according to baseline 6MWTD: unable to walk (n = 218), slow walkers (n = 133), in whom 6MWTD was below the median (128.5 meters), and fast walkers (n = 133) with 6MWTD >128.5 meters. After TAVI, among fast walkers, follow-up 6MWTD decreased by 44  148 meters at 12 months (p <0.02 compared with baseline). In contrast, among slow walkers, 6MWTD improved after TAVI by 58  126 meters (p <0.001 compared with baseline). Similarly, among those unable to walk, 6MWTD distance increased by 66  109 meters (p <0.001 compared with baseline). There were no differences in 30-day outcomes among 6MWTD groups. At 2 years, the rate of death from any cause was 42.5% in those unable to walk, 31.2% in slow walkers, and 28.8% in fast walkers (p = 0.02), driven primarily by differences in noncardiac death. In conclusion, among high-risk older adults undergoing TAVI, baseline 6MWTD does not predict procedural outcomes but does predict long-term mortality. Nonetheless, patients with poor baseline functional status exhibit the greatest improvement in 6MWTD. Additional work is required to identify those with poor functional status who stand to benefit the most from TAVI.

UI  - 23720276
TI  - Combined delivery of bone marrow-derived mononuclear cells in chronic ischemic heart disease: rationale and study design.
AB  - As cell delivery may play an important role in chronic IHD, we aim to demonstrate feasibility and efficacy of a combined cell-delivery approach in patients with decreased LV function.

UI  - 23719719
TI  - Brentuximab vedotin does not cause clinically relevant QTc interval prolongation in patients with CD30-positive hematologic malignancies.
AB  - There is no significant prolongation of the QT/QTc interval with brentuximab vedotin in patients with CD30-positive hematologic malignancies.

UI  - 23712862
TI  - The ongoing importance of smoking as a powerful risk factor for ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction in young patients.
AB  - 

UI  - 23710685
TI  - Diminished aortic excursion in chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension.
AB  - Aortic excursion is diminished in the right ventricular pressure overload of CTEPH. This impaired motion of the aortic root may influence systolic expansion of the left atrium, and may contribute to the impaired left atrial diastolic filling patterns often seen in patients with CTEPH.

UI  - 23708155
TI  - A phase 3, randomized, double-blinded, active-controlled, unblinded standard of care study assessing the efficacy and safety of intramyocardial autologous CD34+ cell administration in patients with refractory angina: design of the RENEW study.
AB  - Preclinical trials indicate that CD34+ cells represent an effective angiogenic stem cell component. Early-phase clinical trials suggest that intramyocardial administration of autologous CD34+ cells may improve functional capacity and symptoms of angina. RENEW is a pivotal phase 3 trial designed to determine the efficacy of granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF)-mobilized CD34+ stem cells for the treatment for patients with refractory angina and chronic myocardial ischemia. Patients (n = 444) receiving maximally tolerated antianginal therapies and lacking conventional revascularization options with Canadian Cardiovascular Society class III or IV angina and ischemia on stress testing will be randomized 2:1:1 to cell therapy (G-CSF-mediated stem cell mobilization, apheresis, and intramyocardial injection of 1  10(5) autologous CD34(+) cells/kg), active control (G-CSF-mediated stem cell mobilization, apheresis, and intramyocardial placebo injection), or open-label standard of care. The primary efficacy end point is change in exercise treadmill time in the treated vs active control patients, with 90% power to detect a 60-second difference in exercise time between cell-treated (n = 200) and active control (n = 100) patients. Key secondary end points include total number of anginal episodes per week and the incidence of independently adjudicated major adverse cardiac events and serious adverse events. RENEW will be the first adequately powered study aimed at definitively determining the efficacy of a cell therapy (intramyocardially delivered autologous CD34+ cells) for improvement of functional capacity in patients with refractory angina.

UI  - 23706316
TI  - Left atrial regional phasic strain, strain rate and velocity by speckle-tracking echocardiography: normal values and effects of aging in a large group of normal subjects.
AB  - This study provides the normal range of LA strain, strain rate and velocity in 3 age groups, which are closely correlated with LA and LV function. The detailed assessment of LA phasic mechanics by 2DSTE may prove to be an important tool for future clinical studies.

UI  - 23704196
TI  - Pertuzumab plus trastuzumab in combination with standard neoadjuvant anthracycline-containing and anthracycline-free chemotherapy regimens in patients with HER2-positive early breast cancer: a randomized phase II cardiac safety study (TRYPHAENA).
AB  - The combination of P with H and standard chemotherapy resulted in low rates of symptomatic LVSD.

UI  - 23702009
TI  - A 3-center comparison of 1-year mortality outcomes between transcatheter aortic valve implantation and surgical aortic valve replacement on the basis of propensity score matching among intermediate-risk surgical patients.
AB  - Cumulative all-cause mortality at 30 days and 1 year was similar among propensity-score matched TAVI and SAVR patients at intermediate surgical risk. (Surgical Replacement and Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation [SURTAVI]; NCT01586910).

UI  - 23695367
TI  - Impact of vitamin D insufficiency on the epicardial coronary flow velocity and endothelial function.
AB  - A strong association was found between VD insufficiency and the SCF phenomenon. In addition, VD insufficiency was associated with endothelial dysfunction and subclinical atherosclerosis. We believe that further studies are required to clarify the role of VD in patients with SCF.

UI  - 23692891
TI  - Magnetic versus manual catheter navigation for mapping and ablation of right ventricular outflow tract ventricular arrhythmias: a randomized controlled study.
AB  - RMC navigation significantly reduces patients' and physicians' fluoroscopic times by 50.5% and 68.6%, respectively, when used in conjunction with a noncontact mapping system to guide ablation of RVOT VPC/VT.

UI  - 23687235
TI  - The accuracy and responsiveness of continuous noninvasive arterial pressure during rapid ventricular pacing for transcatheter aortic valve replacement.
AB  - The stand-alone CNAP monitor (model 500at, software V3.5) accurately and rapidly measures the changes of blood pressure that occur during sudden development of cardiocirculatory arrest and recovery to baseline blood pressures. CNAP monitors the duration of the arrest.

UI  - 23687124
TI  - Arrhythmic complications after electrical cardioversion of acute atrial fibrillation: the FinCV study.
AB  - Bradycardic complications are rare and usually benign after cardioversion of acute AF. They seem to reflect sinus node dysfunction and often result in later implantation of a permanent pacemaker.

UI  - 23685170
TI  - Automated analysis of atrial late gadolinium enhancement imaging that correlates with endocardial voltage and clinical outcomes: a 2-center study.
AB  - LA scar quantified automatically by a simple objective method correlates with colocated endocardial voltage. Greater preablation scar is associated with LA dilatation and AF recurrence.

UI  - 23684680
TI  - Determinants and outcomes of acute transcatheter valve-in-valve therapy or embolization: a study of multiple valve implants in the U.S. PARTNER trial (Placement of AoRTic TraNscathetER Valve Trial Edwards SAPIEN Transcatheter Heart Valve).
AB  - Acute TV-in-TV and TVE are serious sequelae of TAVR, often resulting in multiple valve implants. They carry an excess of mortality and are caused by anatomic and technical factors, which may be avoidable with judicious procedural planning.

UI  - 23684679
TI  - The impact of integration of a multidetector computed tomography annulus area sizing algorithm on outcomes of transcatheter aortic valve replacement: a prospective, multicenter, controlled trial.
AB  - The implementation of an MDCT annulus area sizing algorithm for TAVR reduces PAR. Three-dimensional aortic annular assessment and annular area sizing should be considered for TAVR.

UI  - 23684157
TI  - Patient-prosthesis mismatch and reduction in left ventricular mass after aortic valve replacement.
AB  - The presence of PPM did not influence medium-term survival. However, patients without PPM showed a marked reduction in left ventricular mass index as soon as 3 months postoperatively.

UI  - 23681133
TI  - Circulating endothelial progenitor cells are inversely correlated with in-stent restenosis in patients with non-ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndromes treated with EPC-capture stents (JACK-EPC trial).
AB  - Use of GenousTM stents in NSTE-ACS is associated with lower restenosis rate than BMS at 6 months. There was no ST through 1 year. The number of circulating EPCs is inversely correlated with in-stent late loss (LL).

UI  - 23680766
TI  - Changes in plasma and urine globotriaosylceramide levels do not predict Fabry disease progression over 1 year of agalsidase alfa.
AB  - Changes in globotriaosylceramide concentrations do not appear to be useful biomarkers for prediction of Fabry disease-related changes in estimated glomerular filtration rate or left-ventricular mass index.

UI  - 23679889
TI  - Impact of cardiac computed tomography of the interatrial septum before pulmonary vein isolation.
AB  - MDCT may detect a PFO before pulmonary isolation. However, presence of AF may lead to artifacts on MDCT impeding a meaningful analysis. Furthermore, in this study sensitivity and positive predictive value of MDCT were low and therefore MDCT was not a reliable screening tool for detection of PFO.

UI  - 23678857
TI  - Evaluation of linear lesions in the left and right atrium in ablation of long-standing atrial fibrillation.
AB  - In LPeAF, linear lesions in the LA help improve outcome of ablation, additional CTI ablation does not.

UI  - 23676887
TI  - Do semi-rigid prosthetic rings affect left ventricular function after mitral valve repair?
AB  - There was little difference in the influence on postoperative cardiac function between semi-rigid rings and flexible rings or bands.

UI  - 23673064
TI  - The Perceval S aortic valve has the potential of shortening surgical time: does it also result in improved outcome?
AB  - Sutureless implantation of the Perceval valve is associated with shorter cross-clamp and cardiopulmonary bypass times, resulting in improved clinical outcome. In addition, it compares favorably with conventional valves in terms of mortality and outcome variables.

UI  - 23670850
TI  - Ectopic fat and adipokines in metabolically benign overweight/obese women: the Kronos Early Estrogen Prevention Study.
AB  - Levels of ectopic fat and the adverse adipokine profile increase on a continuum of BMI, suggesting that the metabolically benign phenotype may be a transient state.

UI  - 23669597
TI  - The assessment of atrial function in single ventricle hearts from birth to Fontan: a speckle-tracking study by using strain and strain rate.
AB  - Single ventricle atrium is dilated, has deceased compliance, decreased early diastolic emptying, and increased reliance on active atrial contraction for ventricular filling. This deviates from normal early childhood maturational changes and appears to parallel those of an atrium facing early ventricular diastolic dysfunction.

UI  - 23668428
TI  - Subxiphoid approach to epicardial implantation of implantable cardioverter defibrillators in children.
AB  - Minimally invasive epicardial ICD coil implantation in children with low DFT values is possible. The anterior implantation approach appears superior to the posterior approach.

UI  - 23665098
TI  - Percutaneous left atrial appendage closure with the AMPLATZER cardiac plug device in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation and contraindications to anticoagulation therapy.
AB  - In patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation at high risk of cardioembolic events and absolute contraindications to anticoagulation, LAAC using the ACP device followed by dual-/single-antiplatelet therapy was associated with a low rate of embolic and bleeding events after a mean follow-up of 20 months. No cases of severe residual leak or device thrombosis were observed at the 6-month follow-up.

UI  - 23662846
TI  - CUTE-CV: a prospective study of enhanced left atrial appendage visualization with microbubble contrast agent use during transesophageal echocardiography guided cardioversion.
AB  - LAA dimensions and contractility indices were higher, artifacts were significantly differentiated, previously unsuspected LAA filling defects were identified, and the level of confidence in excluding thrombus was enhanced in the contrast images when compared to the noncontrast images. After 4 months follow-up, 1 stroke-associated death occurred in a patient who had LAA thrombus recognized only by contrast. Left atrial appendage visualization is enhanced with microbubble contrast agent use during transesophageal echocardiography guided cardioversion and is useful in identification of intracardiac thrombus.

UI  - 23661722
TI  - Predictors of mortality and outcomes of therapy in low-flow severe aortic stenosis: a Placement of Aortic Transcatheter Valves (PARTNER) trial analysis.
AB  - URL: http://www.clinicaltrial.gov. Unique identifier: NCT0053089.4.

UI  - 23659362
TI  - Three-dimensional speckle tracking echocardiography-derived left atrial strain parameters are reduced in patients with atrial fibrillation (results from the MAGYAR-path study).
AB  - 3DSTE-derived "uni-dimensional" LS, RS, CS, as well as novel strain parameters (3DS, AS) are significantly reduced in patients with AF compared to matched controls. 3DS and AS might be new strain parameters providing further insights into the alterations of LA function in patients developing AF.

UI  - 23648698
TI  - Long-term control of arterial hypertension and regression of left ventricular hypertrophy with treatment of primary aldosteronism.
AB  - Primary aldosteronism (PA), a common cause of high blood pressure (BP), induces left ventricular (LV) hypertrophy and an excess rate of cardiovascular events. Whether its treatment provides long-term cure of hypertension and regression of cardiovascular damage remains uncertain. To the aim of assessing the effect of treatment of PA on BP and LV changes, we prospectively recruited 323 patients in a long-term follow-up study entailing serial echocardiography evaluations. Of them, 180 had PA and were assigned to either adrenalectomy (n=110) or medical therapy (n=70) on the basis of the adrenal vein sampling. The remaining 143 were consecutive optimally treated primary hypertensive patients. At baseline, the PA patients had more inappropriate LV mass than PH patients (27.1% versus 16.2%; P=0.020), despite similar BP values. At a median follow-up of 36 months (range, 6-225), BP was lowered (P<0.0001 versus baseline) to similar values in adrenalectomized (13515/839 mm Hg), medically treated PA (13311/837 mm Hg), and PH (13915/869 mm Hg) patients. To this end, the adrenalectomized patients required significantly less drugs than the other groups. In PA patients, the LV mass index and the rate of LV hypertrophy fell through LV inward remodeling to the level of optimally treated PH patients, indicating that the LV work markedly decreased. Findings were similar when long-term (5 and 10 years) data were examined. Thus, an early diagnosis and a specific treatment of PA warrant normalization of BP and reversal of detrimental LV changes at long term.

UI  - 23644728
TI  - The STS score is the strongest predictor of long-term survival following transcatheter aortic valve implantation, whereas access route (transapical versus transfemoral) has no predictive value beyond the periprocedural phase.
AB  - The STS score outperforms the logistic EuroSCORE in predicting adverse outcomes following TAVI. The transapical approach is associated with higher perioperative mortality, but does not exert any influence on long-term prognosis beyond the periprocedural phase.

UI  - 23644300
TI  - Alcohol septal ablation in patients with hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy: low incidence of sudden cardiac death and reduced risk profile.
AB  - Survival in ASA-treated patients was similar to that in the background population. The number of RFs, including the prevalence of NSVT, was markedly reduced by ASA and the incidence of SCD was correspondingly low. Thus, clinically applied ASA was safe.

UI  - 23643593
TI  - Obesity and its association to phenotype and clinical course in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.
AB  - In HCM patients, extrinsic factors such as obesity are independently associated with increase in LV mass and may dictate progression of heart failure symptoms.

UI  - 23643501
TI  - Patient outcome following 2 different stress imaging approaches: a prospective randomized comparison.
AB  - Perfusion imaging with RTMCE improves the detection of CAD during stress echocardiography, and identifies those more likely to undergo revascularization following an abnormal study.

UI  - 23640778
TI  - Longitudinal monitoring of cardiac siderosis using cardiovascular magnetic resonance T2* in patients with thalassemia major on various chelation regimens: a 6-year study.
AB  - Cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR) and hepatic magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) have become reliable noninvasive tools to monitor iron excess in thalassemia major (TM) patients. However, long-term studies are lacking. We reviewed CMR and hepatic MRI T2* imaging on 54 TM patients who had three or more annual measurements. They were managed on various chelation regimens. Patients were grouped according to their degree of cardiac siderosis: severe (T2*, <10 msec), mild to moderate (T2* = 10-20 msec), and no cardiac siderosis (T2*, >20 msec). We looked at the change in cardiac T2*, liver iron concentration (LIC) and left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) at years 3 and 5. In patients with severe cardiac siderosis, cardiac T2* (mean  SD) improved from 6.9  1.6 at baseline to 13.6  10.0 by year 5, mean T2* = 6.7 (P = 0.04). Change in cardiac T2* at year 3 was not significant in the severe group. Patients with mild to moderate cardiac siderosis had mean cardiac T2* of 14.6  2.9 at baseline which improved to 26.3  9.5 by year 3, mean T2* = 1.7 (P = 0.01). At baseline, median LICs (mg/g dry weight) in patients with severe, mild-moderate, and no cardiac siderosis were 3.6, 2.8, and 3.3, whereas LVEFs (mean  SD) (%) were 56.3  10.1, 60  5, and 66  7.6, respectively. No significant correlation was noted between  cardiac T2* and  LIC,  cardiac T2*, and  LVEF at years 3 and 5. Throughout the observation period, patients with no cardiac siderosis maintained their cardiac T2* above 20 msec. The majority of patients with cardiac siderosis improve cardiac T2* over time with optimal chelation.

UI  - 23636869
TI  - Conduction recovery in patients with recurrent atrial fibrillation after pulmonary vein isolation using multi-electrode duty cycled radiofrequency ablation.
AB  - Almost all patients (98 %) with AF after PVAC ablation show reconnection of at least one PV. All PV's are equally likely to show reconnection. In the left PV's, reconnection was found more often anteriorly than posteriorly. During pulmonary vein isolation with the PVAC catheter, prevalent sites of reconnection deserve close attention to increase success.

UI  - 23633132
TI  - Percutaneous mitral valve repair in the initial EVEREST cohort: evidence of reverse left ventricular remodeling.
AB  - URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifiers: NCT00209339, NCT00209274.

UI  - 23625485
TI  - Temporary tricuspid valve detachment for ventricular septal defect closure: is it worth doing it?
AB  - Our results, along with results from other series, suggest that TVD can be used effectively and safely for closure of certain VSDs.

UI  - 23625090
TI  - Cardiac hemodynamics and proinflammatory cytokines during biatrial and right atrial appendage pacing in patients with interatrial block.
AB  - BiA pacing in comparison to RAA pacing improves hemodynamic performance in patients with IAB and preserved atrio-ventricular conduction. BiA pacing is associated with reduction of ANP and markers of inflammation (hs-CRP, IL-6, and neopterin).

UI  - 23622913
TI  - Treatment of functional mitral valve regurgitation with the permanent percutaneous transvenous mitral annuloplasty system: results of the multicenter international Percutaneous Transvenous Mitral Annuloplasty System to Reduce Mitral Valve Regurgitation in Patients with Heart Failure trial.
AB  - Overall, PTMA had mild impact on MR reduction, left ventricular remodeling, QOL, and exercise capacity. During follow-up, the risk/benefit ratio remained suboptimal.

UI  - 23622912
TI  - Impact of preoperative chronic kidney disease on short- and long-term outcomes after transcatheter aortic valve implantation: a Pooled-RotterdAm-Milano-Toulouse In Collaboration Plus (PRAGMATIC-Plus) initiative substudy.
AB  - Patients with CKD who undergo TAVI have a higher-risk profile and worse 30-day and 1-year outcomes. Chronic hemodialysis and severe preprocedural CKD are independently associated with an increased risk of 1-year mortality after TAVI.

UI  - 23621161
TI  - Differential effect of everolimus on progression of early and late cardiac allograft vasculopathy in current clinical practice.
AB  - Randomized trials showed that mTOR inhibitors prevent early development of cardiac allograft vasculopathy (CAV). However, the action of these drugs on CAV late after transplant is controversial, and their effectiveness for CAV prevention in clinical practice is poorly explored. In this observational study we included 143 consecutive heart transplant recipients who underwent serial intravascular ultrasound (IVUS), receiving either everolimus or mycophenolate as adjunctive therapy to cyclosporine. Ninety-one recipients comprised the early cohort, receiving IVUS at weeks 3-6 and year 1 after transplant, and 52 the late cohort, receiving IVUS at years 1 and 5 after transplant. Everolimus independently reduced the odds for early CAV (0.14 [0.01-0.77]; p = 0.02) but it did not appear to influence late CAV progression. High-dose statins were found to be associated with reduced CAV progression both early and late after transplant (p  0.05). Metabolic abnormalities, such as high triglycerides, were associated with late, but not with early CAV progression. By highlighting a differential effect of everolimus and metabolic abnormalities on early and late changes of graft coronary morphology, this observational study supports the hypothesis that everolimus may be effective for CAV prevention but not for CAV treatment, and that risk factors intervene in a time-dependent sequence during CAV development.

UI  - 23619294
TI  - Characterization of the cardiac myosin binding protein-C phosphoproteome in healthy and failing human hearts.
AB  - This study demonstrates that cMyBP-C harbors more phosphorylation sites than previously known, with a total of 17 (9 novel) identified phosphorylation sites in vivo. Most sites were primarily located within the N-terminal side of the protein. The most highly phosphorylated site on cMyBP-C was Ser284 and this site showed decreased phosphorylation in the failing heart, which implicates importance for fine-tuning contractility. To date, the functional importance of Ser286 and Thr290 is unknown. In addition, 16 sites were identified after in vitro kinase incubation. The data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD000158.

UI  - 23619196
TI  - Comparison of six risk scores for in-hospital mortality in Chinese patients undergoing heart valve surgery.
AB  - Compared with the EuroSCORE II, VA score, NNE score, NYC score, and the Ambler score, the STS score gives an accurate prediction for individual operative risk in patients undergoing heart valve surgery at our centre. Therefore, the use of the STS score for risk evaluation maybe suitable in patients undergoing heart valve surgery at our centre in the future.

UI  - 23617373
TI  - Profound sedation with propofol modifies atrial fibrillation dynamics.
AB  - During atrial fibrillation (AF), multiple wandering propagation wavelets at high rates drift around both atria under controversial hierarchical models. Antiarrhythmic drugs modify the cardiac ionic currents supporting the fibrillation process within the atria, and can alter AF propagation dynamics and even terminate the arrhythmia. However, some other drugs, theoretically nonantiarrhythmic, may slightly block particular cardiac ionic currents through uncertain mechanisms in such a subtle way at regular heart rates that may have been pharmacologically overlooked. These potential effects might be better exposed at much higher activation rates as in AF, where atrial cells depolarize over 400 times per second. In this review, we aimed to compile and discuss results from several studies evaluating the net effect of profound sedation with propofol on atrial cells and atrioventricular (AV) conduction. Propofol is a very commonly used anesthetic agent, and its possible effect on AF dynamics has systematically not been taken into account in the myriad of clinical studies dealing with AF intracardiac recordings. The possible effect of sedation with propofol on AF was evaluated through the analysis of AF propagation patterns before and after its infusion in a series of patients submitted to pulmonary vein ablation. Effect on AV conduction will be discussed as well.

UI  - 23612364
TI  - Assessment of QRS duration and presence of fragmented QRS in patients with Behet's disease.
AB  - QRS duration is greater and fQRS complexes are more frequent in patients with BD. These findings may indicate subclinical cardiac involvement in BD. Given the prognostic significance of ECG parameters, it is reasonable to evaluate patients with BD with prolonged and fQRS complexes more in detail such as late potentials in signal averaged ECG in terms of cardiac involvement.

UI  - 23609479
TI  - Analysis of the potential effect of ponatinib on the QTc interval in patients with refractory hematological malignancies.
AB  - Ponatinib is associated with a low risk of QTc prolongation in patients with refractory hematological malignancies.

UI  - 23609363
TI  - Bisoprolol improved endothelial function and myocardium survival of hypertension with stable angina: a randomized double-blinded trial.
AB  - Hypertensive subjects with stable angina might get benefit from the treatment of bisoprolol in improving endothelial function and the survival of myocardium.

UI  - 23602752
TI  - Role of inferior vena cava and right ventricular diameter in assessment of volume status: a comparative study: ultrasound and hypovolemia.
AB  - The results indicate that the dIVC and dRV are consistently low in hypovolemic subjects when compared with euvolemic subjects. Bedside serial measurements of dIVC and dRV could be a useful noninvasive tool for the detection and follow-up of patients with hypovolemia and evaluation of the response to the treatment.

UI  - 23600893
TI  - Left atrial longitudinal strain parameters predict postoperative persistent atrial fibrillation following mitral valve surgery: a speckle tracking echocardiography study.
AB  - Postoperative atrial fibrillation (POAF) is common after cardiac surgery and is associated with increased morbidity, mortality, and prolonged hospital stay. Speckle tracking echocardiography (STE) has been applied recently for evaluation of LA function. The purpose of this study was to examine whether left atrial longitudinal strain measured by STE is a predictor for the development of POAF following mitral valve surgery for severe mitral regurgitation. We studied 53 patients undergoing mitral valve surgery in sinus rhythm at the time of surgery. Echocardiography with evaluation of LA strain by STE was performed. Detection of POAF was based on documentation of AF episodes by continuous telemetry throughout hospitalization. Patients who did not develop POAF were taken as group 1 and those who had POAF constituted group 2. The echocardiographic and clinical predictors of POAF were investigated. POAF occurred in 28.3% of subjects. Mean age, LAVi and BNP were found higher in group 2 while peak atrial longitudinal strain (PALS) (13.9  3.8% vs. 24.8  7.3%; P < 0.001), peak atrial contraction strain (PACS) (7.6  1.95% vs. 11.3  3.5%; P < 0.001) were significantly lower. By multivariate logistic regression analysis, PALS and LAVi were independent predictor of POAF development. LA longitudinal strain was found to predict POAF in patients undergoing mitral valve surgery. It could be used to better identify patients at greater risk of developing POAF, and thus to guide in risk stratification and to take appropriate intensive prophylactic therapy.

UI  - 23595943
TI  - Potential anatomic substrate of peri-atrioventricular nodal atrial tachycardia ablated from the noncoronary sinus of Valsalva.
AB  - Our data suggest that NCC-AT is characterized by a longer atrioventricular (AV) conduction time, steeper AS angle, and thicker IVS than are seen with AVNRT. These electrocardiographic and echocardiographic characteristics from the IVS to the peri-AV nodal regions may have some effect on the development of NCC-AT.

UI  - 23594207
TI  - Spontaneous dissociated firing from the pulmonary veins during ablation of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation: implications and impact on arrhythmia-free survival.
AB  - In patients with paroxysmal AF undergoing ablation, DiFi from the PVs after their isolation was associated with improved ablation outcomes. It is possible that DiFi is an indicator of successful durable isolation of the PVs. The findings suggest that confirmation of exit block may be warranted to improve AF ablation outcomes.

UI  - 23589315
TI  - Evaluation of the relationship between cetuximab therapy and corrected QT interval changes in patients with advanced malignancies from solid tumors.
AB  - These results suggest that cetuximab can be safely administered as a single agent without risk of effect on QTc interval.

UI  - 23584562
TI  - Comparison of aortic root dimension changes during cardiac cycle between the patients with and without aortic valve calcification using ECG-gated 64-slice and dual-source 256-slice computed tomography scanners: results of a multicenter study.
AB  - With advent of transcatheter aortic valve implantation, using multislice computed tomography (MSCT) to provide detailed data about aortic root has become more crucial. We compared aortic dimension changes during cardiac cycle in patients with and without aortic valve calcification and evaluated its correlation with aortic valve calcium score in former group. Fifty-two patients with and 52 subjects without aortic valve calcification underwent coronary MSCT using two 64-slice and a dual-source 256-slice CT scanners. Aortic root dimensions were measured in both systolic and diastolic phases. Changes in annular maximum diameter (D(max)), minimum diameter (D(min)), cross sectional area and perimeter, three diameters of sinuses of Valsalva (V(a), V(b) and V(c)), sinotubular junction maximum (STJ(max)) and minimum (STJ(min)) diameters between systolic and diastolic phases (systole minus diastole) were -0.59 mm, -0.05 mm, -2.53 mm(2), -1.48 mm, +0.91 mm, +1.08 mm, +0.42 mm, +0.63 mm, +0.40 mm and in those without aortic calcification -0.33 mm, 0.00 mm, -6.92 mm(2), -0.41 mm, +0.30 mm, +0.38 mm, +0.61 mm, +0.33 mm, +0.20 mm in patients with aortic calcification, respectively. Apart from two diameters in sinuses of Valsalva (V(a) and V(b)), changes in all other diameters of aortic root during cardiac cycle were not significantly different between the two groups. Furthermore, in patients with aortic calcification, no significant correlation was detected between changes in nearly all aortic root dimensions during cardiac cycle and aortic valve calcium score or location of calcification (annular, commissural or both).

UI  - 23583249
TI  - Left atrial appendage closure with the Watchman device in patients with a contraindication for oral anticoagulation: the ASAP study (ASA Plavix Feasibility Study With Watchman Left Atrial Appendage Closure Technology).
AB  - LAA closure with the Watchman device can be safely performed without a warfarin transition, and is a reasonable alternative to consider for patients at high risk for stroke but with contraindications to systemic oral anticoagulation. (ASA Plavix Feasibility Study With Watchman Left Atrial Appendage Closure Technology [ASAP]; NCT00851578).

UI  - 23582676
TI  - Clinical impact of the implantable loop recorder in patients with isolated syncope, bundle branch block and negative workup: a randomized multicentre prospective study.
AB  - In this randomized prospective study, the ILR strategy proved largely superior to conventional follow-up in detecting recurrent events, with a potential impact on therapeutic management. This observation highlights the usefulness of early monitoring in patients with BBB and negative EPS even after the first syncope episode but an empiric pacemaker strategy remains to be validated in this selected population.

UI  - 23566540
TI  - Frequency, determinants and prognostic implications of infectious complications after transcatheter aortic valve implantation.
AB  - In-hospital infection (IHI) after transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) has received little attention, although it may have a significant effect on outcomes and costs because of prolonged hospital stay. Therefore, the aim of this study was to determine the incidence, type, predictors, and prognostic effects of IHI after TAVI. This study included 298 consecutive patients from 2 centers who underwent TAVI from November 2005 to November 2011. IHI during the hospital stay was defined on the basis of symptoms and signs assessed by the attending physician in the cardiac care unit or medium care unit in combination with all technical examinations performed to confirm infection. IHI after TAVI was observed in 58 patients (19.5%): urinary tract infections in 25 patients (43.1%), pneumonia in 12 patients (20.7%), and access-site infections in 7 patients (12.1%). In 12 patients (20.7%), the site of infection could not be determined, and 2 patients (3.4%) had multiple infection sites. Multivariate analysis revealed that surgical access through the femoral artery was the most important determinant of infection (odds ratio [OR] 4.18, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.02 to 17.19), followed by perioperative major stroke (OR 3.21, 95% CI 1.01 to 9.52) and overweight (body mass index 25 kg/m; OR 2.27, 95% CI 1.12 to 4.59). The length of hospital stay in patients with IHIs was 15.0 days (interquartile range 8.0 to 22.0) compared with 7.0 days (interquartile range 4.0 to 10.0) in patients without infections (p <0.0001). Kaplan-Meier estimates of survival at 1 year were 76.6% and 74.4% (log-rank, p = 0.61), respectively. Unadjusted and adjusted OR analysis revealed that IHI did not predict mortality at 30 days (OR 1.27, 95% CI 0.49 to 3.30) or at 1 year (hazard ratio 1.24, 95% CI 0.68 to 2.25). In conclusion, IHI occurred in 19.5% of the patients. Patient-related and, more important, procedure-related variables play a role in the occurrence of infection, indicating that improvements in the execution of TAVI may lead to a reduction of this complication.

UI  - 23563138
TI  - A bi-center cardiovascular magnetic resonance prognosis study focusing on dobutamine wall motion and late gadolinium enhancement in 3,138 consecutive patients.
AB  - 

UI  - 23563126
TI  - Direct or coincidental elimination of stable rotors or focal sources may explain successful atrial fibrillation ablation: on-treatment analysis of the CONFIRM trial (Conventional ablation for AF with or without focal impulse and rotor modulation).
AB  - Elimination of stable AF rotors and focal sources may explain freedom from AF after diverse approaches to ablation. Patient-specific AF source distributions are consistent with the reported success of specific anatomic lesion sets and of widespread ablation. These results support targeting AF sources to reduce unnecessary ablation, and motivate studies on FIRM-only ablation.

UI  - 23559419
TI  - Validation of sub-segmental visual scoring for the quantification of ischemic and nonischemic myocardial fibrosis using late gadolinium enhancement MRI.
AB  - A VSSA-based model of myocardial scar quantification is accurate and reproducible in ischemic and nonischemic cardiomyopathy.

UI  - 23558739
TI  - Application of 3-dimensional speckle tracking imaging to the assessment of right ventricular regional deformation.
AB  - RV 3DSTI indicated segmental heterogeneity in magnitude and timing of RV contraction. 3DSTI may be a promising modality for providing precise quantitative information on complex RV wall motion.

UI  - 23557878
TI  - The worrisome liaison between left ventricular systolic dysfunction and mitral annulus calcification in type 2 diabetes without coronary artery disease: data from the SHORTWAVE study.
AB  - MAC is detectable in one fourth of patients with type 2 diabetes without CAD and is mostly related to LV systolic dysfunction expressed as combined impairment of LV circumferential and longitudinal fibers, independent of age and LAV.

UI  - 23554044
TI  - Emergency and prophylactic use of miniaturized veno-arterial extracorporeal membrane oxygenation in transcatheter aortic valve implantation.
AB  - Life-threatening complications during TAVI can be managed using emergency vaECMO but mortality remains high. The use of prophylactic vaECMO in very high-risk patients is safe and may be advocated in selected cases.

UI  - 23554013
TI  - Transcatheter aortic valve implantation without balloon predilation: a single-center pilot experience.
AB  - These results suggest that direct CoreValve implantation in patients with severe aortic stenosis is feasible and may lead to hemodynamic and clinical improvement in patients who are poor candidates for aortic valve surgery, pending confirmation in larger series with longer follow-up.

UI  - 23552129
TI  - Aortic, but not brachial blood pressure category enhances the ability to identify target organ changes in normotensives.
AB  - In contrast to normal versus high-normal BP categories which do not clearly distinguish normotensives with from those without organ damage, noninvasively determined aortic BP measurements may refine the ability to detect those with a normal/high-normal BP at risk of BP-related cardiovascular damage.

UI  - 23551697
TI  - Left atrial volume as predictor of valve replacement and cardiovascular events in patients with asymptomatic mild to moderate aortic stenosis.
AB  - In asymptomatic patients with mild to moderate Aortic valve stenosis (AS), LA volume was not predictive of the combined endpoint of Aortic valve replacement, development of heart failure or cardiac death. AVA and presence of LV hypertrophy were the only predictors of events in multivariate analysis.

UI  - 23549824
TI  - Effect-site concentration of remifentanil for minimizing cardiovascular changes by inhalation of desflurane.
AB  - The most appropriate effect-site concentration of remifentanil for blunting hemodynamic responses by inhalation of high concentration desflurane is 4 ng/mL.

UI  - 23549737
TI  - Pulmonary artery reconstruction using autologous pericardium or azygos venae substitute for surgical treatment of central non-small cell lung cancer.
AB  - We evaluated the clinico-surgical significance of pulmonary artery (PA) reconstruction using a patch of autologous pericardium/azygos venae substitute to treat central non-small cell lung cancer in 62 patients with pulmonary arteries invaded by tumor. According to TNM-classification, four patients were stage IIb, 46 were stage IIIa, and 12 were stage IIIb. Depending on tumor infiltration, surgical procedures included partial PA tangential resections/reconstructions by a patch of autologous azygos venae, a patch of autologous pericardium and complete PA sleeve resection and reconstruction by a custom-made autologous pericardial conduit interposition. 47 patients received postoperative chemotherapy and 19 received radiotherapy. There were 2 (3.2%) postoperative early deaths due to bronchial anastomotic leakage. Postoperative complications occurred in 17.7% (11/62) patients and all recovered uneventfully. Mean follow-up time after surgical resection was 49.5 (6-12) months and overall 1-, 3-, 5-, and 10-year survival rates were 80.2, 44.7, 31.4, and 23.1%, respectively. It was concluded that autologous pericardial patch and azygos vein patch reconstruction of PA were safe and effective. Regarding extended circumferential defects after sleeve resection in which end-to-end anastomosis is not feasible, autologous pericardial conduit interposition may be useful for reconstruction when a tumor extensively infiltrates full circumference of the PA.

UI  - 23549004
TI  - Dosimetric evaluation of critical organs at risk in mastectomized left-sided breast cancer radiotherapy using breath-hold technique.
AB  - Our study revealed that the use of ABC-mDIBH in the practice of locally advanced mastectomized left-sided breast cancer radiotherapy improves normal tissue sparing with the expected potential of decreasing treatment-related morbidity and mortality. Moreover, the resultant reduction achieved with ABC in doses to the left anterior descending coronary artery, which plays a central role in cardiac perfusion, may have implications for decreasing the potential of radiation-induced cardiac morbidity and mortality.

UI  - 23548517
TI  - From a regional cohort of extremely low birth weight infants: cardiac function at the age of 7 years.
AB  - No differences were found between the groups in the occurrence of cardiac complications. Ex-preterm ELBW children at age 6 may have a faster HR, smaller cardiac dimensions on echocardiography and higher nocturnal blood pressure. The clinical relevance of these findings is unknown.

UI  - 23548167
TI  - Total testosterone levels, metabolic parameters, cardiac remodeling and exercise capacity in coronary artery disease patients with different stages of glucose tolerance.
AB  - A negative correlation between low testosterone and dysmetabolic features was observed. Independent of metabolic status, low plasma testosterone seems to be an indicator of impaired maximal exercise capacity and cardiac hypertrophy among CAD patients with type II diabetes.

UI  - 23546649
TI  - Angiographic validation of magnetic resonance assessment of myocardium at risk in non-ST-elevation myocardial infarction.
AB  - In the setting of acute myocardial ischemia, the hypoperfused portion of the myocardium is in danger of becoming irreversibly injured. This portion is called the area at risk (AAR). It is of clinical interest to be able to estimate the AAR for further evaluation and improvement of different revascularization strategies. The Alberta Provincial Project for Outcome Assessment in Coronary Heart Disease Score (APPROACH-score) has been shown to be a jeopardy score with a good performance for angiographic assessment of the myocardium supplied by a coronary vessel, representing the AAR. Recently, cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (CMR) has been demonstrated to also provide good results in determining the AAR, especially in the setting of acute ST-elevation infarction patients. Therefore, the aim of our trial was to compare T2-weighted CMR imaging for assessment of AAR in patients with non-ST-elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI) and to validate this approach against the angiographic APPROACH-score. We enrolled sixty-four patients presenting with acute NSTEMI that underwent coronary X-ray angiography within 72 h of symptom onset. Two blinded readers performed offline angiographic AAR assessment using the modified APPROACH-score, as being described elsewhere. Furthermore, with the use of a semi-automatic T2w-CMR approach, the AAR was quantified by two fully blinded readers. The resulting mean AAR determined by the modified APPROACH-score was 28.6  10.0 %. The mean CMR derived AAR was 27.6  12.7 %. CMR assessment tended to slightly underestimate the AAR in comparison to angiographic scoring (difference -0.09  7.6 %). There is a good correlation between the AAR assessed by CMR and by angiography (r = 0.65, p < 0.001). T2-weigthed CMR is able to quantify the AAR with very good correlation to the angiographic APPROACH-score in NSTEMI patients.

UI  - 23541971
TI  - Interplay between right ventricular function and cardiac resynchronization therapy: an analysis of the CARE-HF trial (Cardiac Resynchronization-Heart Failure).
AB  - Right ventricular dysfunction is a powerful determinant of prognosis among candidates for CRT, regardless of treatment assigned, but did not diminish the prognostic benefits of CRT among patients enrolled in the CARE-HF trial. (Care-HF CArdiac Resynchronization in Heart Failure; NCT00170300).

UI  - 23540545
TI  - Comparison of rate versus rhythm control in patients with atrial fibrillation and a pacemaker.
AB  - The effect of rate versus rhythm control in patients with atrial fibrillation who have undergone previous pacemaker (PM) implantation is unknown. We evaluated the mortality in patients with atrial fibrillation and a PM randomized to rate or rhythm control treatment strategies. The Atrial Fibrillation Follow-up Investigation of Rhythm Management data set was stratified by the presence (n = 250) or absence (n = 3,810) of a PM at randomization into the rate or rhythm control arm. Kaplan-Meier curves were used for univariate analysis, and proportional hazards were used for multivariate analysis. The subjects with a PM (n = 250) were older (73 vs 69 years, p <0.01) and had a greater prevalence of coronary artery disease (53% vs 37%, p <0.01) and congestive heart failure (33% vs 23%, p <0.01). All-cause mortality was significantly greater in the PM patients who were randomized to the rhythm control arm (n = 128) than in the patients enrolled in the rate control arm with or without a PM (n = 2,027, p <0.01) and those in the rhythm control arm without a PM (n = 1,905, p <0.01). Multivariate analysis revealed that predictors of all-cause mortality included PM patients randomized to the rhythm control arm (hazard ratio 2.59, 95% confidence interval 1.46 to 4.58, p <0.01) and the presence of congestive heart failure (hazard ratio 2.42, 95% confidence interval 1.40 to 4.16, p <0.01). In conclusion, all-cause mortality was greater among patients with atrial fibrillation with a PM, who were randomized to the rhythm control arm of the Atrial Fibrillation Follow-up Investigation of Rhythm Management study compared with all other patients enrolled in the Atrial Fibrillation Follow-up Investigation of Rhythm Management study. The rhythm control strategy in patients with a PM was an independent predictor of mortality.

UI  - 23537892
TI  - Left ventricular responses to acute changes in late systolic pressure augmentation in older adults.
AB  - This study is registered at clinicaltrials.gov as NCT00204984.

UI  - 23535197
TI  - Significant improvement of left atrial and left atrial appendage function after catheter ablation for persistent atrial fibrillation.
AB  - Successful CA is associated with LA reverse remodeling and LA/LAA functional recovery in patients with persistent AF. LA systolic strain and LAA wall velocity at baseline predicted both maintenance of SR and LA reverse remodeling.

UI  - 23531417
TI  - Comparing impedance cardiography and echocardiography in the assessment of reduced left ventricular systolic function.
AB  - The association which we found between EF and ICG parameters was not reported in previous studies. We found no association between EF and ICG parameters which were suggested previously as the determinants of reduced left ventricular systolic function.The knowledge concerning explanation of hemodynamic parameters measured by ICG that is available nowadays is not sufficient to adopt the method in practice and use it to describe left ventricular systolic dysfunction.

UI  - 23530474
TI  - Long-term impact of postconditioning on infarct size and left ventricular ejection fraction in patients with ST-elevation myocardial infarction.
AB  - Karolinska Clinical Trial Registration (http://www.kctr.se). Unique identifier: CT20080014.

UI  - 23530026
TI  - Improving mitral valve coaptation with adjustable rings: outcomes from a European multicentre feasibility study with a new-generation adjustable annuloplasty ring system.
AB  - MV repair with the Cardinal adjustable annuloplasty ring is a reliable technique that enables the adjustment of the ring diameter on a beating heart under echocardiographic control. Such technology allows the optimization of leaflet coaptation, providing minimal residual MR and durable repair.

UI  - 23528027
TI  - Safety and efficacy of adjuvant glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors during primary percutaneous coronary intervention performed from the radial approach for acute ST segment elevation myocardial infarction.
AB  - The use of glycoprotein IIb/IIIa receptor inhibitors (GPIs) in high-risk patients with acute coronary syndromes has been associated with reductions in ischemic events but increases in bleeding complications. The role of GPIs in patients who undergo primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) by the transradial approach (TRA) is not well studied. The aim of this post hoc analysis from the randomized prospective Acute Myocardial Infarction Treated With Primary Angioplasty and Intravenous Enoxaparin or Unfractionated Heparin to Lower Ischemic and Bleeding Events at Short- and Long-Term Follow-Up (ATOLL) trial was to assess the safety and efficacy of GPIs in primary PCI performed using the TRA. A total of 910 patients were enrolled in ATOLL; 522 patients (67%) underwent PCI using the TRA. Two comparative analyses were performed. First, patients who underwent PCI using the TRA who received GPIs were compared with those who did not receive GPIs. Second, patients who underwent PCI using the TRA who received GPIs were compared with those who underwent PCI using a nonradial route and received GPIs. Composite end points of net clinical benefit, ischemic outcomes, and safety consisting of bleeding and transfusion at 1 month were analyzed. A propensity score was constructed, and weight adjustment were made for variables, including but not limited to age, weight, gender, renal function, concomitant use of other medications, Killip class, and medical history, when analyzing the end points. There was no significant difference in net clinical benefit or ischemic outcomes between either TRA patients with versus without GPIs or TRA patients with GPIs versus non-TRA patients with GPIs. Additionally, there were significantly fewer major bleeding events and blood transfusions in TRA patients with GPIs compared with non-TRA patients with GPIs. In conclusion, the addition of GPIs in the setting of primary PCI using the TRA was not associated with bleeding liability. The use of GPIs with TRA was associated with safer outcomes than using GPIs with a nontransradial approach. This study was limited in that it was a nonrandomized retrospective analysis.

UI  - 23525499
TI  - Aldehyde dehydrogenase-2 inhibition blocks remote preconditioning in experimental and human models.
AB  - Mitochondrial aldehyde dehydrogenase-2 (ALDH-2) is involved in preconditioning pathways, but its role in remote ischaemic preconditioning (rIPC) is unknown. We investigated its role in animal and human models of rIPC. (i) In a rabbit model of myocardial infarction, rIPC alone reduced infarct size [69  5.8 % (n = 11) to 40  6.5 % (n = 12), P = 0.019]. However, rIPC protection was lost after pre-treatment with the ALDH-2 inhibitor cyanamide (62  7.6 % controls, n = 10, versus 61  6.9 % rIPC after cyanamide, n = 10, P > 0.05). (ii) In a forearm plethysmography model of endothelial ischaemia-reperfusion injury, 24 individuals of Asian ethnic origin underwent combined rIPC and ischaemia-reperfusion (IR). 11 had wild-type (WT) enzyme and 13 carried the Glu504Lys (ALDH2*2) polymorphism (rendering ALDH-2 functionally inactive). In WT individuals, rIPC protected against impairment of response to acetylcholine (P = 0.9), but rIPC failed to protect carriers of Glu504Lys polymorphism (P = 0.004). (iii) In a second model of endothelial IR injury, 12 individuals participated in a double-blind placebo-controlled crossover study, receiving the ALDH-2 inhibitor disulfiram 600 mg od or placebo for 48 h prior to assessment of flow-mediated dilation (FMD) before and after combined rIPC and IR. With placebo, rIPC was effective with no difference in FMD before and after IR (6.18  1.03 % and 4.76  0.93 % P = 0.1), but disulfiram inhibited rIPC with a reduction in FMD after IR (7.87  1.27 % and 3.05  0.53 %, P = 0.001). This study demonstrates that ALDH-2 is involved in the rIPC pathway in three distinct rabbit and human models. This has potential implications for future clinical studies of remote conditioning.

UI  - 23517485
TI  - Impact of epoetin alfa on left ventricular structure, function, and pressure volume relations as assessed by cardiac magnetic resonance: the heart failure preserved ejection fraction (HFPEF) anemia trial.
AB  - Anemia, a common comorbidity in older adults with heart failure and a preserved ejection fraction (HFPEF), is associated with worse outcomes. The authors quantified the effect of anemia treatment on left ventricular (LV) structure and function as measured by cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) imaging. A prospective, randomized single-blind clinical trial (NCT NCT00286182) comparing the safety and efficacy of epoetin alfa vs placebo for 24 weeks in which a subgroup (n=22) had cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) at baseline and after 3 and 6 months to evaluate changes in cardiac structure and function. Pressure volume (PV) indices were derived from MRI measures of ventricular volume coupled with sphygmomanometer-measured pressure and Doppler estimates of filling pressure. The end-systolic and end-diastolic PV relations and the area between them as a function of end-diastolic pressure, the isovolumic PV area (PVAiso), were calculated. Patients (7510 years, 64% women) with HFPEF (EF=63%15%) with an average hemoglobin of 10.31.1 gm/dL were treated with epoetin alfa using a dose-adjusted algorithm that increased hemoglobin compared with placebo (P<.0001). As compared with baseline, there were no significant changes in end-diastolic (-78 mL vs -38 mL, P=.81) or end-systolic (-0.42 mL vs -0.75 mL, P=.96) volumes at 6-month follow-up between epoetin alfa compared with placebo. LV function as measured based on EF (-1.5%1.6% vs -2.6%3.3%, P=.91) and pressure volume indices (PVAiso-EDP at 30 mm Hg, -50714308 vs -16624140, P=.58) did not differ between epoetin alfa and placebo. Administration of epoetin alfa to older adult patients with HFPEF resulted in a significant increase in hemoglobin, without evident change in LV structure, function, or pressure volume relationships as measured quantitatively using CMR imaging.

UI  - 23515263
TI  - Electrical reconnection after pulmonary vein isolation is contingent on contact force during initial treatment: results from the EFFICAS I study.
AB  - Minimum CF and minimum FTI values are strong predictors of gap formation. Optimal CF parameter recommendations are a target CF of 20 g and a minimum FTI of 400 gs for each new lesion.

UI  - 23512156
TI  - Pulmonary vein anatomy predicts freedom from atrial fibrillation using remote magnetic navigation for circumferential pulmonary vein ablation.
AB  - Pulmonary vein anatomy assessed by MDCT is a good predictor of AF recurrence after PVA using RMN.

UI  - 23507375
TI  - Effects of acute exercise and xanthine oxidase inhibition on novel cardiovascular biomarkers.
AB  - Several sports have been associated with a postexercise increase of cardiac, liver, and skeletal muscle biomarkers of injury. Exhaustive or acute physical exercise causes an increased generation of reactive oxygen species, resulting in cellular injury. Thus, exercise and training may trigger pathophysiological changes in serum concentrations of a variety of biomarkers. In this study, we aimed to evaluate the variation of novel biomarkers of stress and cardiovascular disease such as copeptin, midregional part of proadrenomedullin (MR-proADM), growth differentiation factor 15 (GDF15), soluble vascular endothelial growth factor receptor, and placental growth factor along with uric acid before and after acute high-intensity exercise and allopurinol administration. We also assessed whether allopurinol administration may affect the circulating levels of these biomarkers by inhibition of XO activity. This is a double-blind, placebo-controlled study in which 12 professional football players were divided into 2 experimental groups. An oral dose of 300 mg of allopurinol was administered to one group of six participants 4 hours before a match of the Spanish Football League, whereas the other 6 participants received placebo (cellulose). Venous blood samples were obtained before the match (baseline) and twelve hours afterwards (post-match). Serum MR-proADM levels increased significantly in the placebo group, whereas serum GDF15 levels increased significantly in both the placebo and allopurinol group after the match. No differences in the other parameters tested were found after the match in any experimental group. The trend toward postexercise increase of serum MR-proADM and GDF15 levels shows that the metabolism of these proteins is clearly imbalanced after exercise, which thereby represents a potential source of biological variability in their clinical assessment.

UI  - 23500276
TI  - Quality of life assessment in the randomized PROTECT AF (Percutaneous Closure of the Left Atrial Appendage Versus Warfarin Therapy for Prevention of Stroke in Patients With Atrial Fibrillation) trial of patients at risk for stroke with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation.
AB  - Patients with nonvalvular AF at risk for stroke treated with left atrial appendage closure have favorable QOL changes at 12 months versus patients treated with warfarin. (WATCHMAN Left Atrial Appendage System for Embolic Protection in Patients With Atrial Fibrillation [WATCHMAN PROTECT]; NCT00129545).

UI  - 23500267
TI  - A randomized trial to assess catheter ablation versus rate control in the management of persistent atrial fibrillation in heart failure.
AB  - This first randomized trial of ablation versus rate control to focus on objective exercise performance in AF and HF shows significant benefit from ablation, a strategy that also improves symptoms and neurohormonal status. The effects develop over 12 months, consistent with progressive amelioration of the HF syndrome. (A Randomised Trial to Assess Catheter Ablation Versus Rate Control in the Management of Persistent Atrial Fibrillation in Chronic Heart Failure; NCT00878384).

UI  - 23499621
TI  - The effect of left ventricular electrical delay on AV optimization for cardiac resynchronization therapy.
AB  - Baseline electrical dyssynchrony, as measured by the QLV interval, predicted CRT response. At long QLV intervals, AVO can increase the likelihood of structural response to CRT. AVO and QLV optimized that LV lead location may work synergistically to maximize CRT response.

UI  - 23494925
TI  - Detection of the fetal conotruncal anomalies using real-time three-dimensional echocardiography with live xPlane imaging of the fetal ductal arch view.
AB  - The ductal arch view can be obtained by live xPlane imaging. This method is relatively simple and feasible, hence may be a useful tool to detect fetal conotruncal anomalies.

UI  - 23494803
TI  - First trimester two- and four-dimensional cardiac scan: intra- and interobserver agreement, comparison between methods and benefits of color Doppler technique.
AB  - Both 2D and 4D methods for assessing first-trimester heart parameters are feasible and repeatable within and between observers. Color Doppler adds valuable information to both methods.

UI  - 23493411
TI  - Can QRS scoring predict left ventricular scar and clinical outcomes?
AB  - QRS scoring performed best in quantifying transmural scar, and shows association with medium-term mortality risk, but not with risk of ventricular arrhythmia. It may be that the score is best suited as a risk stratifier of those with least potential to benefit from ICD.

UI  - 23489530
TI  - Insulin resistance and LVH progression in patients with calcific aortic stenosis: a substudy of the ASTRONOMER trial.
AB  - In this ASTRONOMER substudy, insulin resistance was a powerful independent predictor of progression to LVH in patients with AS. Visceral obesity and ensuing insulin resistance may thus present novel therapeutic targets in AS patients.

UI  - 23488667
TI  - Visualization of submitral structure by three-dimensional transesophageal echocardiography.
AB  - The accuracy of transgastric observations of submitral structure using 3DTEE was superior to that provided by the conventional mid-esophageal approach. Transgastric approach offers a ventricular view and complementary information to conventional mid-esophageal approach in patient with functional mitral regurgitation.

UI  - 23485537
TI  - Prevalence and risk factors of valvular calcification in hemodialysis patients.
AB  - This study failed to show an association between HVC in hemodialysis patients and calcium-phosphorus product and parathyroid hormone levels; however, age and diabetes mellitus could be regarded as risk factors. In addition, HVC may lead to increased left ventricle mass index and pulmonary artery pressure and decreased ejection fraction, and low albumin levels may be attributable to inflammation.

UI  - 23484142
TI  - High density sphere culture of adult cardiac cells increases the levels of cardiac and progenitor markers and shows signs of vasculogenesis.
AB  - 3D environment and high cell density play an important role in restoring and supporting the phenotypes of cells represented in cardiac tissues. The aim of this study was therefore to investigate the suitability of high density sphere (HDS) cultures for studies of cardiomyocyte-, endothelial-, and stem-cell biology. Primary adult cardiac cells from nine human biopsies were cultured using different media for up to 9 weeks. The possibilities to favor a certain cell phenotype and induce production of extra cellular matrix (ECM) were studied by histology, immunohistochemistry, and quantitative real-time PCR. Defined media gave significant increase in both cardiac- and progenitor-specific markers and also an intraluminal position of endothelial cells over time. Cardiac media showed indication of differentiation and maturity of HDS considering the ECM production and activities within NOTCH regulation but no additional cardiac differentiation. Endothelial media gave no positive effects on endothelial phenotype but increased proliferation without fibroblast overgrowth. In addition, indications for early vasculogenesis were found. It was also possible to affect the Wnt signaling in HDS by addition of a glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK3) inhibitor. In conclusion, these findings show the suitability of HDS as in vitro model for studies of cardiomyocyte-, endothelial-, and stem-cell biology.

UI  - 23479317
TI  - Pericardioscopy and epi- and pericardial biopsy - a new window to the heart improving etiological diagnoses and permitting targeted intrapericardial therapy.
AB  - The etiology of pericardial effusions remains unresolved in many cases because not the full spectrum of diagnostic methods including cytology, histology, immunohistology and PCR on cardiotropic agents, which are currently available, used in many institutions. After comprehensive clinical workup and use of imaging methods, such as echocardiography and cardiac MRI, pericardiocentesis and epicardial and pericardial biopsy were carried out under pericardioscopical control of the biopsy site. Biopsies and fluid were evaluated by cytological, histological, immunological and molecular (PCR) methods in 259 patients of our tertiary referral center following an identical clinical pathway, diagnostic and therapeutic algorithm in all cases. A standard clinical pathway and the same diagnostic and therapeutic algorithms were used in all cases. When all methods are applied to patients with pericardial effusions, "idiopathic" pericardial effusion is no longer a relevant diagnosis. Autoreactive and lymphocytic pericardial effusions are the leading diagnosis in 35% of patients in the prospective Marburg registry, followed by malignant effusions in 28% of cases. Viral genome was assessed in fluid and epi- as well as pericardial biopsies in 12%, followed by post-traumatic/iatrogenic effusions in 15% and purulent/bacterial effusions in only 2%. Pericardioscopy permits the macroscopic inspection of the pulsating heart and its disease-associated macroscopic alterations. It also permits safe and targeted biopsy for further investigations of the tissue. Therapy, tailored to the individual etiology, can be selected such as intrapericardial instillation in autoreactive effusions with triamcinolone and with cisplatin or thiotepa in neoplastic effusions. With this approach the recurrence of pericardial effusion can be avoided effectively. A comprehensive approach to the diagnosis of pericardial effusions in conjunction with pericardioscopy for targeted tissue sampling is the prerequisite for an etiologically based intrapericardial and systemic treatment, which improves outcome and prognosis.

UI  - 23477687
TI  - The St Jude Medical Trifecta aortic pericardial valve: results from a global, multicenter, prospective clinical study.
AB  - The St Jude Medical Trifecta valve is a unique pericardial bioprosthesis with design elements that provide excellent hemodynamic performance while providing ease of implantation. Long-term follow-up continues to confirm the promising results of this innovative bioprosthesis.

UI  - 23475176
TI  - The analysis of transesophageal oxygen saturation photoplethysmography from different signal sources.
AB  - The photoplethysmography (PPG) signals detected by transesophageal oximetry sensor toward aorta arch (AA), descending aorta (DA), and left ventricle (LV) under the guidance of transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) were investigated, and the effects of filter application on PPG signals were evaluated. Eleven cardiac surgical patients were involved. After anesthesia was induced, the TEE probe with a modified pulse oximetry sensor was inserted. Under the guidance of TEE, the AA PPG, DA PPG and LV PPG were detected respectively when ventilator was on and off. The mean alternating current (AC) amplitudes and direct current (DC) values of original and filtered PPG signals were measured. The ratio of AC and DC value (AC/DC) and ventilation-induced AC variations were calculated. Satisfactory PPG waveforms were obtained in all patients under the guidance of TEE. The AC amplitude in LV PPG was significant larger than in AA and DA PPG, and both AC/DC and ventilation-induced AC variation in LV PPG were significantly higher than in AA PPG or DA PPG either. There were no significant differences of AC amplitude between filtered and ventilation off PPG signals. The AC amplitudes and AC/DC toward LV are significantly higher than transesophageal oximeter toward AA or DA, and the effect of mechanical ventilation on transesophageal PPG can be obviously reduced by filtering techniques.

UI  - 23475121
TI  - Impact of left ventricular remodelling on outcomes after left ventriculoplasty for ischaemic cardiomyopathy: Japanese surgical ventricular reconstruction group experience.
AB  - The severity of LV remodelling did not affect survival after SVR plus CABG. The results of SVR were acceptable even for those with globally akinetic LV due to ischaemic cardiomyopathy.

UI  - 23469596
TI  - [Effects of electro-acupuncture combined general anesthesia on myocardial injury of high blood sugar patients with coronary heart disease in the perioperative phase].
AB  - EA could reduce the perioperative stress response to the injury of coronary vascular endothelial cells, and improve myocardial ischemia and CHD patients' prognosis by regulating the central nervous system, the cardiovascular active substances, and anti-oxygen free radicals.

UI  - 23467957
TI  - Use of irradiate animal pericardium membrane for prevention of Frey's syndrome after parotidectomy.
AB  - Considering the present results, although this study needs further implementation, we can affirm that BPM is a valid option in preventing Frey's syndrome whereas SMAS flap is not available.

UI  - 23465887
TI  - Implementation of echocardiography core laboratory best practices: a case study of the PARTNER I trial.
AB  - This real-world echocardiographic core lab experience in the PARTNER I trial demonstrates that a high standard of measurability and reproducibility can result from extensive quality assurance efforts in both image acquisition and analysis. These results and the echocardiographic data reported here provide a reference for future studies of aortic stenosis patients and should encourage the wider use of echocardiography in clinical research.

UI  - 23465551
TI  - Interference of propofol with signal transducer and activator of transcription 5 activation and cardioprotection by remote ischemic preconditioning during coronary artery bypass grafting.
AB  - Remote ischemic preconditioning during propofol anesthesia did not evoke either signal transducer and activator of transcription 5 activation or cardioprotection, implying interaction of propofol with cardioprotective signaling upstream of signal transducer and activator of transcription 5.

UI  - 23463857
TI  - Genome- and phenome-wide analyses of cardiac conduction identifies markers of arrhythmia risk.
AB  - We conclude that DNA biobanks coupled to electronic medical records not only provide a platform for genome-wide association study but also may allow broad interrogation of the longitudinal incidence of disease associated with genetic variants. The phenome-wide association study approach implicated sodium channel variants modulating QRS duration in subjects without cardiac disease as predictors of subsequent arrhythmias.

UI  - 23462787
TI  - Prevalence of regional myocardial thinning and relationship with myocardial scarring in patients with coronary artery disease.
AB  - Among patients with CAD referred for CMR and found to have regional wall thinning, limited scar burden was present in 18% and was associated with improved contractility and resolution of wall thinning after revascularization. These findings, which are not consistent with common assumptions, warrant further investigation.

UI  - 23459446
TI  - Gender difference in coronary sinus anatomy and left ventricular lead pacing parameters in patients with cardiac resynchronization therapy.
AB  - Women had an anatomical disadvantage for LV lead placement and had higher LV lead pacing threshold compared to men. Implanting physicians should be aware of gender differences during LV lead placement in order to maximize CRT benefits.

UI  - 23457622
TI  - Right ventricular morphology and the onset of dyspnea: the MESA-right ventricle study.
AB  - Lower RV mass and smaller RV volumes were associated with an increased risk of dyspnea in men, but not in women.

UI  - 23453106
TI  - Risk stratification in patients with unstable angina using absolute serial changes of 3 high-sensitive troponin assays.
AB  - In marked contrast to patients with AMI, most patients with UA do not exhibit relevant hs-cTn changes. The minority of UA with hs-cTn changes, however, has a significantly worse short- and long-term outcome.

UI  - 23450302
TI  - Percent emphysema and right ventricular structure and function: the Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis-Lung and Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis-Right Ventricle Studies.
AB  - Percent emphysema was associated with smaller RV volumes and lower mass. The relationship of emphysema to cardiac function is complex but likely involves increased pulmonary vascular resistance, predominantly with reduced cardiac output, pulmonary hyperinflation, and accelerated cardiopulmonary aging.

UI  - 23448187
TI  - An implantable left atrial pressure sensor lead designed for percutaneous extraction using standard techniques.
AB  - The extraction of the LAP sensor lead was accomplished safely using standard techniques and equipment for percutaneously extracting pacemaker and defibrillator leads.

UI  - 23448138
TI  - Cardiac iron measurement and iron chelation therapy in patients with  thalassaemia major: experience from Taiwan.
AB  - In our group of Taiwanese patients, the relative risk for arrhythmia was 1036 when cardiac T2* values were less than 10ms (compared with 10ms) and 198 when serum ferritin levels increased >2500ng mL(-1) (compared with 2500ng mL(-1) ). Serum ferritin levels correlated with cardiac T2* values in patients with abnormal myocardial iron loads (T2*<20ms, r=-048, P=0004, n = 34), but LVEF (measured by echocardiography) gave no indication of excess myocardial iron deposition (r=-007, P=052) or of the risk of developing arrhythmia.

UI  - 23443954
TI  - Cardiac sympathetic denervation is not related to nigrostriatal degeneration in Parkinson's disease.
AB  - The results of our study suggest that cardiac sympathetic system and nigrostriatal system are differently affected in PD. In particular, the sympathetic neurodegeneration rate is not related to nigrostriatal degeneration rate and vice versa in our series as detectable scintigraphically.

UI  - 23443735
TI  - Clinical impact of persistent left bundle-branch block after transcatheter aortic valve implantation with CoreValve Revalving System.
AB  - In this registry of high-volume centers, persistent LBBB after CoreValve Revalving System transcatheter aortic valve implantation showed no effect on hard end points. On the other hand, LBBB was associated with a higher short-term rate of pacemaker implantation.

UI  - 23439362
TI  - Influence of type of aortic valve prosthesis on coronary blood flow velocity.
AB  - The coronary flow velocity profile in the LAD was significantly influenced by the type of aortic valve prosthesis used. The differences in the LAD velocity profile probably reflect differences in valve design and the systolic transvalvular flow pattern.

UI  - 23438932
TI  - Effect of nifedipine versus telmisartan on prevention of atrial fibrillation recurrence in hypertensive patients.
AB  - It is controversial whether angiotensin II receptor blockers provide better protection than calcium antagonists against atrial fibrillation (AF) recurrence in hypertensive patients. This study was designed to compare the effect of nifedipine- and telmisartan-based antihypertensive treatments for preventing AF recurrence in hypertensive patients with paroxysmal AF. A total of 149 hypertensive patients with paroxysmal AF were randomized to nifedipine- or telmisartan-based antihypertensive treatment groups. The target blood pressure (BP) was <130/80 mm Hg. Clinic BP, ECG, Holter monitoring, and echocardiography were followed up for 2 years. The primary end point was the incidence of overall and persistent AF recurrence. During follow-up, there was no statistical difference in the rate of patients lowering to target BP between both groups, whereas nifedipine group had slightly better BP control but similar heart rate control at 24 months. The incidence of AF recurrence was similar in both groups (nifedipine versus telmisartan: 58.7% versus 55.4%; P=0.742), and Kaplan-Meier analysis showed no significant difference in the freedom from AF recurrence (log-rank test; P=0.48). However, the rate of developing persistent AF in telmisartan group was lower than that in nifedipine group (5.4% versus 16.0%; P=0.035). Patients in telmisartan group had lower values of left atrial diameter, left atrial volume index, and left ventricular mass index at the end of follow-up. The effects of telmisartan in preventing AF recurrences in hypertensive patients with paroxysmal AF after intensive lowering BP is similar to that of nifedipine, but telmisartan has more potent effects on preventing progression to persistent AF.

UI  - 23437794
TI  - Comparison of electroanatomical mapping systems: accuracy in left atrial mapping.
AB  - The OneModel software produces maps that are more accurate in rendering complex cardiac structures compared to traditional software.

UI  - 23437787
TI  - Benefit to decrease esophageal damage using an ablation catheter with increased irrigation channels for pulmonary vein isolation.
AB  - The LET only showed a small difference between the 6C and 12C groups. In contrast, there may be a lower risk of esophageal injury with the 6C than the 12C if we use TDLET.

UI  - 23434517
TI  - Pulmonary antrum radial-linear ablation for paroxysmal atrial fibrillation: interim analysis of a multicenter trial.
AB  - URL: http://www.chictr.org; Unique identifier: ChiCTR-TRC-11001191.

UI  - 23433932
TI  - Pathological Q waves in myocardial infarction in patients treated by primary PCI.
AB  - Association of Q waves with infarct size is strongest when using the classic Q-wave criteria. Q-wave regression is associated with the largest improvement of LVEF as assessed with CMR.

UI  - 23433565
TI  - Transcatheter aortic valve implantation for pure severe native aortic valve regurgitation.
AB  - This registry analysis demonstrates the feasibility and potential procedure difficulties when using TAVI for severe NAVR. Acceptable results may be achieved in carefully selected patients who are deemed too high risk for conventional surgery, but the possibility of requiring 2 valves and leaving residual aortic regurgitation remain important considerations.

UI  - 23433101
TI  - Everolimus versus mycophenolate mofetil in heart transplantation: a randomized, multicenter trial.
AB  - In an open-label, 24-month trial, 721 de novo heart transplant recipients were randomized to everolimus 1.5 mg or 3.0 mg with reduced-dose cyclosporine, or mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) 3 g/day with standard-dose cyclosporine (plus corticosteroids  induction). Primary efficacy endpoint was the 12-month composite incidence of biopsy-proven acute rejection, acute rejection associated with hemodynamic compromise, graft loss/retransplant, death or loss to follow-up. Everolimus 1.5 mg was noninferior to MMF for this endpoint at month 12 (35.1% vs. 33.6%; difference 1.5% [97.5% CI: -7.5%, 10.6%]) and month 24. Mortality to month 3 was higher with everolimus 1.5 mg versus MMF in patients receiving rabbit antithymocyte globulin (rATG) induction, mainly due to infection, but 24-month mortality was similar (everolimus 1.5 mg 10.6% [30/282], MMF 9.2% [25/271]). Everolimus 3.0 mg was terminated prematurely due to higher mortality. The mean (SD) 12-month increase in maximal intimal thickness was 0.03 (0.05) mm with everolimus 1.5 mg versus 0.07 (0.11) mm with MMF (p < 0.001). Everolimus 1.5 mg was inferior to MMF for renal function but comparable in patients achieving predefined reduced cyclosporine trough concentrations. Nonfatal serious adverse events were more frequent with everolimus 1.5 mg versus MMF. Everolimus 1.5 mg with reduced-dose cyclosporine offers similar efficacy to MMF with standard-dose cyclosporine and reduces intimal proliferation at 12 months in de novo heart transplant recipients.

UI  - 23432783
TI  - The prognostic value of diagnosing concurrent multiple myeloma in immunoglobulin light chain amyloidosis.
AB  - The prevalence and prognostic value of a concomitant diagnosis of symptomatic or asymptomatic multiple myeloma (MM), as defined by the current International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) criteria, in patients with immunoglobulin light chain amyloidosis (AL), are unknown. We studied 46 consecutive patients with AL who underwent quantification of serum M-protein and clonal bone marrow plasma cells, as well as a comprehensive evaluation for end organ damage by MM. Using standard morphology and CD138 immunohistochemical staining, 57% and 80% of patients were found to have concomitant MM, respectively. Nine patients exhibited end organ damage consistent with a diagnosis of symptomatic MM. While overall survival was similar between AL patients with or without concurrent myeloma (1-year overall survival 68% vs. 87%; P = 0.27), a diagnosis of symptomatic myeloma was associated with inferior outcome (1-year overall survival 39% vs. 81%; P = 0.005). Quantification of bone marrow plasma cells by both standard morphology and CD138 immunohistochemistry identified a much higher prevalence of concurrent MM in patients with AL than previously reported. Evaluation of bone marrow plasma cell infiltration and presence of myeloma associated end organ damage could be clinically useful for prognostication of patients with AL.

UI  - 23432507
TI  - Early echocardiographic changes after percutaneous implantation of the Edwards SAPIEN transcatheter heart valve in the pulmonary position.
AB  - Improvements in pulmonary insufficiency and stenosis, RV size, and TR gradient and severity are seen after SAPIEN TPV placement. Selected indices of RV diastolic function improve immediately after TPV implantation, but return to baseline by 6 months. RV systolic function is unchanged.

UI  - 23432461
TI  - Long-term effect of septal or apical pacing on left and right ventricular function after permanent pacemaker implantation.
AB  - We concluded that patients with septal pacing have significantly higher GLS LV and more modest decreases in GLS RV values than patients with apical pacing. Thus, septal pacing may be not necessarily preferable in patients without significant heart disease undergoing dual-chamber permanent pacemaker implantation.

UI  - 23429605
TI  - An open-label dose escalation study to evaluate the safety of administration of nonviral stromal cell-derived factor-1 plasmid to treat symptomatic ischemic heart failure.
AB  - These data highlight the importance of defining the molecular mechanisms of stem cell-based tissue repair and suggest that overexpression of stromal cell-derived factor-1 via gene therapy is a strategy for improving heart failure symptoms in patients with ischemic cardiomyopathy.

UI  - 23426860
TI  - Oxidative stress after a carbohydrate meal contributes to the deterioration of diastolic cardiac function in nonhypertensive insulin-treated patients with moderately well controlled type 2 diabetes.
AB  - The prevalence and prognostic importance of diastolic dysfunction in type 2 diabetes has only recently been appreciated. We tested the hypothesis that in insulin treated type 2 diabetes (D), carbohydrate consumption induces oxidative stress resulting in further impairment of diastolic function beyond structural myocardial stiffness. The effects of a pure carbohydrate breakfast (48 g) on oxidative stress and cardiac function were studied in the fasting and postmeal states in subjects without hypertension or overt cardiac disease (moderately well controlled D, n=21 and controls without D, n=20). Studied variables included systolic and early diastolic (E') myocardial velocities, traditional metabolic and hemodynamic parameters, serum nitrotyrosine, and sVCAM-1. In D compared to control subjects, the postmeal increase () in glucose (1.442.78 vs. 0.110.72 mmol/l, p=0.04) and nitrotyrosine (0.340.37 vs. -0.230.47 nM/l, p<0.001) were significantly higher. sVCAM-1 was higher in fasting and postmeal (p=0.02). E' was significantly lower in postmeal (7.31.3 vs. 9.61.3 cm/s, p<0.001) and fasting (p<0.001) whereas the rate pressure product was significantly higher (9 4201 118 vs. 7 7051 871 mm Hg/min, p<0.001). Multivariable regression models of the pooled data demonstrated that independent predictors for postmeal E' were nitrotyrosine and septal thickness (R 0.466) and for fasting E' age, nitrotyrosine, and septal thickness (R 0.400). In insulin requiring type 2 diabetes, carbohydrate consumption may induce oxidative stress that is associated with worsening diastolic function, indicating that this metabolic factor is an important determinant of diastolic dysfunction in the diabetic heart beyond the increase in structural myocardial stiffness.

UI  - 23424238
TI  - Left ventricular global function index by magnetic resonance imaging--a novel marker for assessment of cardiac performance for the prediction of cardiovascular events: the multi-ethnic study of atherosclerosis.
AB  - Left ventricular (LV) function is generally assessed independent of structural remodeling and vice versa. The purpose of this study was to evaluate a novel LV global function index (LVGFI) that integrates LV structure with global function and to assess its predictive value for cardiovascular (CV) events throughout adult life in a multiethnic population of men and women without history of CV diseases at baseline. A total of 5004 participants in the Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis underwent a cardiac magnetic resonance study and were followed up for a median of 7.2 years. The LVGFI by cardiac magnetic resonance was defined by the ratio of stroke volume divided by LV total volume defined as the sum of mean LV cavity and myocardial volumes. Cox proportional hazard models were constructed to predict the end points of heart failure, hard CV events, and a combined end point of all CV events after adjustment for established risk factors, calcium score, and biomarkers. A total of 579 (11.6%) CV events were observed during the follow-up period. In adjusted models, the end points of heart failure, hard CV events, and all events were all significantly associated with LVGFI (heart failure, hazard ratio=0.64, P<0.0001; hard CV events, hazard ratio=0.79, P=0.007; all events, hazard ratio=0.79, P<0.0001). LVGFI had a significant independent predictive value in the multivariable models for all CV event categories. The LVGFI was a powerful predictor of incident HF, hard CV events, and a composite end point, including all events in this multiethnic cohort.

UI  - 23422500
TI  - Outcomes of surgical aortic valve replacement in octogenarians.
AB  - Surgical AVR yields excellent short- and long-term outcomes for potentially high-risk, elderly patients.

UI  - 23420699
TI  - Stenting the arterial duct in neonates and infants with congenital heart disease and duct-dependent pulmonary blood flow: a multicenter experience of an evolving therapy over 18 years.
AB  - The technical aspects and clinical application of percutaneous DS has changed in the last two decades. DS has become a practical and safe therapy in a subgroup of neonates with ductal-dependent pulmonary blood flow.

UI  - 23418153
TI  - Interstudy variability in cardiac magnetic resonance imaging measurements of ventricular volume, mass, and ejection fraction in repaired tetralogy of Fallot: a prospective observational study.
AB  - CMR measures of ventricular size and function have acceptable repeatability across serial examinations in patients with repaired TOF. Measurements of RV mass are subject to higher variability. For most parameters, agreement limits are wider when measurements are performed by multiple operators. These results will aid in the interpretation of study-to-study variations in the follow-up of individual patients and in designing future clinical trials.

UI  - 23412930
TI  - Impact of spironolactone on vascular, myocardial, and functional parameters in untreated patients with a hypertensive response to exercise.
AB  - In HRE patients without previous hypertension, short-term spironolactone reduced exercise BP, 24-hour ambulatory BP, LVMI, and E/e(m) but did not significantly alter exercise capacity or myocardial strain.
