
UI  - 25014686
TI  - Effects of extended-release niacin with laropiprant in high-risk patients.
AB  - Among participants with atherosclerotic vascular disease, the addition of extended-release niacin-laropiprant to statin-based LDL cholesterol-lowering therapy did not significantly reduce the risk of major vascular events but did increase the risk of serious adverse events. (Funded by Merck and others; HPS2-THRIVE ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00461630.).

UI  - 24851570
TI  - Effect of oat consumption on lipid profiles in hypercholesterolemic adults.
AB  - Oatmeal reduced serum total cholesterol and LDL-cholesterol levels in hypercholesterolemic Thai adults. Hence, oat consumption is a reasonable recommendation for Thai individuals with hyperlipidemia.

UI  - 24841975
TI  - International randomized phase III study of elacytarabine versus investigator choice in patients with relapsed/refractory acute myeloid leukemia.
AB  - Neither elacytarabine nor any of the seven alternative treatment regimens provided clinically meaningful benefit to these patients. OS in both study arms and for all treatments was extremely poor. Novel agents, novel clinical trial designs, and novel strategies of drug development are all desperately needed for this patient population.

UI  - 24825642
TI  - Effect of evolocumab or ezetimibe added to moderate- or high-intensity statin therapy on LDL-C lowering in patients with hypercholesterolemia: the LAPLACE-2 randomized clinical trial.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT01763866.

UI  - 24780946
TI  - Hypolipidic diet and phytosubstance supplement in hypercholesterolemia.
AB  - Low fat diet, associated to phyto-substance supplement, have been proven useful to decrease serum cholesterol level and to improve nutritional status.

UI  - 24766978
TI  - Impact of the ENHANCE trial on the use of ezetimibe in the United States and Canada.
AB  - Ezetimibe remains commonly used in both the US and Canada. Ezetimibe use has decreased in the US post-ENHANCE, whereas use has gradually but steadily increased in Canada. The diverging patterns of ezetimibe use in the US and Canada require further investigation, as they reveal that a common evidence base is eliciting very different utilization patterns in neighboring countries.

UI  - 24737272
TI  - N-of-1 (single-patient) trials for statin-related myalgia.
AB  - Western University, London, Ontario, Canada.

UI  - 24694531
TI  - Anti-PCSK9 antibody effectively lowers cholesterol in patients with statin intolerance: the GAUSS-2 randomized, placebo-controlled phase 3 clinical trial of evolocumab.
AB  - Robust efficacy combined with favorable tolerability makes evolocumab a promising therapy for addressing thelargely unmet clinical need in high-risk patients with elevated cholesterol who are statin intolerant. (Goal Achievement After Utilizing an Anti-PCSK9 Antibody in Statin Intolerant Subjects-2; NCT01763905).

UI  - 24691094
TI  - Anti-PCSK9 monotherapy for hypercholesterolemia: the MENDEL-2 randomized, controlled phase III clinical trial of evolocumab.
AB  - In the largest monotherapy trial using a PCSK9 inhibitor to date, evolocumab yielded significant LDL-C reductions compared with placebo or ezetimibe and was well tolerated in patients with hypercholesterolemia. (Monoclonal Antibody Against PCSK9 to Reduce Elevated LDL-C in Subjects Currently Not Receiving Drug Therapy for Easing LipidLevels-2 [MENDEL-2]; NCT01763827).

UI  - 24631792
TI  - Cardiovascular results of an individually controlled complex prevention.
AB  - In persons affected by CV risk factors, lifestyle modification with personal, HR controlled complex (cardio and resistance) aerobic training effectively decreased CV risk factors and strongly improved state of health and quality of life.

UI  - 24572041
TI  - The formation of short-chain fatty acids is positively associated with the blood lipid-lowering effect of lupin kernel fiber in moderately hypercholesterolemic adults.
AB  - Lupin kernel fiber beneficially modifies blood lipids because of its bile acid-binding capacity. The aim of this study was to evaluate the preventive effects of a lupin kernel fiber preparation on cardiovascular diseases and to clarify possible mechanisms. In a randomized, double-blind, controlled crossover trial, 60 moderately hypercholesterolemic adults (plasma total cholesterol: >5.2 mmol/L) passed 3 intervention periods in different orders with a 2-wk washout phase between each. Participants consumed either a high-fiber diet containing 25-g/d lupin kernel fiber (LF) or citrus fiber (CF), or a low-fiber control diet (CD) for 4 wk each. Anthropometric, plasma, and fecal variables were assessed at baseline and after the interventions. Contrary to the CF period, total (9%) and LDL (12%) cholesterol as well as triacylglycerols (10%) were lower after the LF period when compared with the CD period [P  0.02, adjusted for baseline, age, gender, and body mass index (BMI)]. HDL cholesterol remained unchanged. Moreover, the LF period reduced high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (P = 0.02) and systolic blood pressure (P = 0.01) when compared with baseline. Bile acid binding could not be shown because the excretion of total bile acids remained constant after the high-fiber diets. However, the LF period resulted in an enhanced formation of the main short-chain fatty acids in comparison with the CD period. During the CF period, only acetate increased significantly. Both high-fiber diets led to higher satiety and modified nutritional behavior, resulting in significantly lower body weight, BMI, and waist circumference compared with the CD period. The blood lipid-lowering effects of LF are apparently not a result of bile acid binding. Rather, we hypothesize for the first time, to our knowledge, that the blood lipid-lowering effects of LF may be mainly attributed to the formation of short-chain fatty acids, specifically propionate and acetate. This trial was registered at clinicaltrials.gov as NCT01035086.

UI  - 24493100
TI  - Cognitive function and brain structure in persons with type 2 diabetes mellitus after intensive lowering of blood pressure and lipid levels: a randomized clinical trial.
AB  - In participants with long-standing T2DM and at high risk for cardiovascular events, intensive BP control and fibrate therapy in the presence of controlled low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels did not produce a measurable effect on cognitive decline at 40 months of follow-up. Intensive BP control was associated with greater decline in TBV at 40 months relative to standard therapy. TRIAL REGISTRATION clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00000620.

UI  - 24463915
TI  - The relationship between low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels and the incidence of cardiovascular disease in high-risk patients treated with pravastatin: main results of the APPROACH-J study.
AB  - This study aimed to evaluate the relationship between low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) levels and cardiovascular disease (CVD) in high-risk patients with hypercholesterolemia without a history of CVD. Patients who were receiving or started treatment with pravastatin, were followed-up for 2 years. Patients were divided into quartiles according to on-treatment LDL-C. The maximum contrast method based on the Cox proportional hazards model was used to evaluate the relationship between achieved LDL-C and the incidence of CVD. Incidence of CVD was also compared according to whether a number of risk factor targets were achieved. A total 6,229 patients were enrolled, with 4,916 having reported LDL-C values. During the 2 years, 69 cases of CVD (6.7/1000 patient years), including 36 coronary artery disease (CAD) (3.5/1000 patient years) and 28 strokes (2.7/1000 patient years), occurred. The comparison of on-treatment LDL-C level quartiles suggested that the incidence of all CVD decreased linearly as the LDL-C levels decreased. Incidence of CAD showed a curvilinear relationship to LDL-C levels, suggesting some attenuation of risk below LDL-C of 119 mg/dL. The incidence of all CVD and CAD tended to be decreased as the number of achieved risk factor targets increased. In conclusion, through our observational study, it was shown that a linear relationship between the incidence of CVD and LDL-C was observed in high-risk hypercholesterolemic patients. The low incidence of CVD in the present study may be associated with multifactorial management of conventional risk factors including high LDL-C levels. However, prospective, randomized studies are needed to confirm these findings.

UI  - 24411003
TI  - Atorvastatin 10 mg plus ezetimibe versus titration to atorvastatin 40 mg: attainment of European and Canadian guideline lipid targets in high-risk subjects 65 years.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov identifier NCT00418834.

UI  - 24385236
TI  - Efficacy and safety of ETC-1002, a novel investigational low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol-lowering therapy for the treatment of patients with hypercholesterolemia and type 2 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT# 01607294.

UI  - 24300152
TI  - [Effects of statins upon bone mineral density in postmenopausal women with hypercholesterolemia].
AB  - Statins can help maintain or increase bone mass of hypercholesterolemic menopausal women through promoting bone synthesis.

UI  - 24287284
TI  - A softgel dietary supplement containing esterified plant sterols and stanols improves the blood lipid profile of adults with primary hypercholesterolemia: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled replication study.
AB  - A well-controlled clinical trial previously demonstrated the efficacy of a novel softgel dietary supplement providing 1.8 g/day esterified plant sterols and stanols, as part of the National Cholesterol Education Program Therapeutic Lifestyle Changes diet, to improve the fasting lipid profile of men and women with primary hypercholesterolemia (fasting low-density lipoprotein [LDL] cholesterol  130 and <220 mg/dL [ 3.37 and <5.70 mmol/L]). The purpose of this randomized, double blind, placebo-controlled crossover study (conducted July 2011 to January 2012) was to support these previous findings in a similar, but independent, sample with a different lead investigator and research site. Repeated measures analysis of covariance was used to compare outcomes for sterol/stanol and placebo treatment conditions using the baseline value as a covariate. Forty-nine subjects were screened and 30 (8 men and 22 women) were randomized to treatment (all completed the trial). Baseline (mean  standard error of the mean) plasma lipid concentrations were: total cholesterol 236.6  4.2 mg/dL (6.11  0.11 mmol/L), high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol 56.8  3.0 mg/dL (1.47  0.08 mmol/L), LDL cholesterol 151.6  3.3 mg/dL (3.92  0.09 mmol/L), non-HDL cholesterol 179.7  4.6 mg/dL (4.64  0.12 mmol/L), and triglycerides 144.5  14.3 mg/dL (1.63  0.16 mmol/L). Mean placebo-adjusted reductions in plasma lipid levels were significant (P<0.01) for LDL cholesterol (-4.3%), non-HDL cholesterol (-4.1%), and total cholesterol (-3.5%), but not for triglycerides or HDL cholesterol. These results support the efficacy of 1.8 g/day esterified plant sterols/stanols in softgel capsules, administered as an adjunct to the National Cholesterol Education Program Therapeutic Lifestyle Changes diet, to augment reductions in atherogenic lipid levels in individuals with hypercholesterolemia.

UI  - 24285687
TI  - Anthocyanin supplementation improves HDL-associated paraoxonase 1 activity and enhances cholesterol efflux capacity in subjects with hypercholesterolemia.
AB  - Our observations suggest that the alterations of PON1 activity by anthocyanin observed in hypercholesterolemic HDL reflect a shift to an improvement of cholesterol efflux capacity of HDL and may provide a link between anthocyanin and cardioprotective effects.

UI  - 24267260
TI  - Quantitative and qualitative pleiotropic differences between Simvastatin single and Vytorin combination therapy in hypercholesterolemic subjects.
AB  - The nature of the pleiotropic effects may play a role in Vytorin's and Simvastatin's clinical efficacies.

UI  - 24255061
TI  - Efficacy and safety of longer-term administration of evolocumab (AMG 145) in patients with hypercholesterolemia: 52-week results from the Open-Label Study of Long-Term Evaluation Against LDL-C (OSLER) randomized trial.
AB  - http://clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT01439880.

UI  - 24225450
TI  - Daidzein supplementation decreases serum triglyceride and uric acid concentrations in hypercholesterolemic adults with the effect on triglycerides being greater in those with the GA compared with the GG genotype of ESR- RsaI.
AB  - Daidzein (one of the major isoflavones) can be metabolized to equol in certain individuals. The effects of isoflavones alone and equol status on lipid profiles are still controversial. To evaluate the 6-mo effects of daidzein on cardiovascular risk factors in hypercholesterolemic individuals and the interactions of these effects with equol status and estrogen receptor (ESR) genotypes, we conducted a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial consisting of 210 hypercholesterolemic adults (40-65 y old). The participants were randomly assigned (177 completed) to consume placebo, 40 mg daidzein (DAI40), or 80 mg daidzein (DAI80) daily for 6 mo. Daidzein decreased serum triglycerides (TGs) by 0.15  0.62 mmol/L (mean  SD) and 0.24  0.61 mmol/L and decreased serum uric acid by 23  47 mol/L and 29  44 mol/L in the DAI40 and DAI80 groups, respectively. These reductions in the DAI40 and DAI80 groups were greater than those in the placebo group (P < 0.05). Other blood lipids, glucose, insulin, or glycated hemoglobin did not significantly change after daidzein treatment. No dose-dependent effects of daidzein were found. The reduction of TGs was influenced by the ESR genotype, with a greater effect observed in participants with the GA genotype compared with those with the GG genotype of ESR- RsaI. These effects were not influenced by equol status. Six-month supplementation of daidzein significantly decreased TGs and uric acid. ESR- RsaI genotype, not equol status, influenced daidzein's effects on TGs. Daidzein consumption may be effective to improve cardiovascular risk factors, especially in adults with the GA genotype of ESR- RsaI. This trial was registered at the Chinese clinical trial registry as ChiCTR-TRC-10001048.

UI  - 24206823
TI  - Effect of buttermilk consumption on blood pressure in moderately hypercholesterolemic men and women.
AB  - Short-term buttermilk consumption reduces blood pressure in normotensive individuals.

UI  - 24176024
TI  - TaqIB polymorphism in the cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP) gene influences lipid responses to the consumption of kiwifruit in hypercholesterolaemic men.
AB  - Fruit and vegetables are key elements of a cardioprotective diet, but benefits on plasma lipids, especially HDL-cholesterol (HDL-C), are inconsistent both within and between studies. In the present study, we investigated whether four selected HDL-C-related polymorphisms (cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP) Taq1B, APOA1 -75G/A, hepatic lipase (LIPC) -514CT, and endothelial lipase (LIPG) I24582) modulate the plasma lipid response to a kiwifruit intervention. This is a retrospective analysis of data collected during a 12-week randomised controlled cross-over trial. A total of eighty-five hypercholesterolaemic men completed a 4-week healthy diet run-in period before being randomised to one of two 4-week intervention sequences of two green kiwifruit/d plus healthy diet (kiwifruit intervention) or healthy diet alone (control intervention). The measurement of anthropometric parameters and collection of fasting blood samples were carried out at baseline 1 and after the run-in (baseline 2) and intervention periods. At baseline 2, B1/B1 homozygotes of the CETP Taq1B gene had significantly higher total cholesterol:HDL-C, TAG:HDL-C, and apoB:apoA1 ratios and small-dense LDL concentrations than B2 carriers. A significant CETP Taq1B genotypeintervention interaction was observed for the TAG:HDL-C ratio (P=003). B1/B1 homozygotes had a significantly lower TAG:HDL-C (-023 (sd 058)mmol/l; P=003) ratio after the kiwifruit intervention than after the control intervention, whereas the ratio of B2 carriers was not affected. The lipid response was not affected by other gene polymorphisms. In conclusion, the significant decrease in the TAG:HDL-C ratio in B1/B1 homozygotes suggests that regular inclusion of green kiwifruit as part of a healthy diet may improve the lipid profiles of hypercholesterolaemic men with this genotype.

UI  - 24161333
TI  - AMG 145, a monoclonal antibody against PCSK9, facilitates achievement of national cholesterol education program-adult treatment panel III low-density lipoprotein cholesterol goals among high-risk patients: an analysis from the LAPLACE-TIMI 57 trial (LDL-C assessment with PCSK9 monoclonal antibody inhibition combined with statin thErapy-thrombolysis in myocardial infarction 57).
AB  - PCSK9 inhibition with AMG 145 enables high-risk patients to achieve established lipid goals. If this therapy demonstrates efficacy for reducing cardiovascular events with a favorable safety profile in ongoing phase 3 trials, we believe it will have major public health implications.

UI  - 24132976
TI  - Effects of vitamin D supplementation on glucose metabolism, lipid concentrations, inflammation, and oxidative stress in gestational diabetes: a double-blind randomized controlled clinical trial.
AB  - Vitamin D supplementation in pregnant women with GDM had beneficial effects on glycemia and total and LDL-cholesterol concentrations but did not affect inflammation and oxidative stress. This trial was registered at www.irct.ir as IRCT201305115623N7.

UI  - 24125402
TI  - Comparison of the effect of simvastatin versus simvastatin/ezetimibe versus rosuvastatin on markers of inflammation and oxidative stress in subjects with hypercholesterolemia.
AB  - Simvastatin 40 mg, simvastatin/ezetimibe 10/10 mg and rosuvastatin 10 mg significantly reduced 8-epiPGF2a, oxLDL and Lp-PLA2 activity and mass to a similar extent.

UI  - 24098467
TI  - Pitavastatin and Atorvastatin double-blind randomized comPArative study among hiGh-risk patients, including thOse with Type 2 diabetes mellitus, in Taiwan (PAPAGO-T Study).
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT01386853 http://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT01386853?term=NCT01386853&rank=1.

UI  - 24094079
TI  - RESEARCH (Recognized effect of Statin and ezetimibe therapy for achieving LDL-C Goal), a randomized, doctor-oriented, multicenter trial to compare the effects of higher-dose statin versus ezetimibe-plus-statin on the serum LDL-C concentration of Japanese type-2 diabetes patients design and rationale.
AB  - RESEARCH is the first prospective, parallel-group, multicenter study comparing a double dose of strong statin with ezetimibe plus strong statin for T2DM patients. The RESEARCH study will provide reliable evidence with which to establish a clinical strategy for diabetics who fail to achieve the target LDL-C value.

UI  - 24075770
TI  - Lipid lowering in healthy volunteers treated with multiple doses of MGL-3196, a liver-targeted thyroid hormone receptor- agonist.
AB  - MGL-3196 is an oral, liver-targeted selective agonist for the thyroid hormone receptor- (THR-) that is being developed for the treatment of dyslipidemia. The safety profile and tolerability of THR- agonist MGL-3196 was assessed in first-in humans studies, including a single ascending dose study (NCT01367873) in which MGL-3196 appeared safe at all doses tested. A two-week multiple dose study was conducted at doses of 5, 20, 50, 80, 100, and 200mg per day in healthy subjects with mildly elevated low density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol (>110mg/dL) (NCT01519531). MGL-3196 was well-tolerated at all doses with no dose-related adverse events or liver enzyme, ECG or vital-sign changes. At the highest dose, there was a reversible reduction of 20% in the level of pro-hormone, free thyroxine (free T4) that was significantly different from placebo (p<0.0001) that may be explained by increased hepatic metabolism of T4. There was no change in thyrotropin (TSH) or triiodothyronine (free T3) or other evidence of central thyroid axis dysfunction at any dose. Doses ranging from 50 to 200mg demonstrated highly statistically significant reductions relative to placebo of up to: 30% for LDL cholesterol (range, p=0.05-<0.0001); 28% for non- high density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol (range, p=0.027-0.0001); 24% for Apolipoprotein B (range, p=0.008-0.0004), and statistical trends of up to 60% reduction in triglycerides (TG) (range, p=0.13-0.016). The near maximal lipid effects were observed at a dose of 80mg daily. In summary, in a two-week study in healthy volunteers with mild LDL cholesterol elevation, MGL-3196 appeared safe, was well-tolerated and showed a beneficial effect on lipid parameters.

UI  - 24063830
TI  - Efficacy and safety of ezetimibe added to atorvastatin versus atorvastatin uptitration or switching to rosuvastatin in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia.
AB  - Hypercholesterolemic patients (n= 1,547) at high atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease risk with low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) levels 100 and 160mg/dl while treated with atorvastatin 10mg/day entered a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, active-controlled, clinical trial using two 6-week study periods. Period I compared the efficacy/safety of (1) adding ezetimibe 10mg (ezetimibe) to stable atorvastatin 10mg, (2) doubling atorvastatin to 20mg, or (3) switching to rosuvastatin 10mg. Subjects in the latter 2 groups who persisted with elevated LDL-C levels (100 and 160mg/dl) after period I, entered period II; subjects on atorvastatin 20mg had ezetimibe added to their atorvastatin 20mg, or uptitrated their atorvastatin to 40mg; subjects on rosuvastatin 10mg switched to atorvastatin 20mg plus ezetimibe or uptitrated their rosuvastatin to 20mg. Some subjects on atorvastatin 10mg plus ezetimibe continued the same treatment into period II. At the end of period I, ezetimibe plus atorvastatin 10mg reduced LDL-C significantly more than atorvastatin 20mg or rosuvastatin 10mg (22.2% vs 9.5% or 13.0%, respectively, p <0.001). At the end of period II, ezetimibe plus atorvastatin 20mg reduced LDL-C significantly more than atorvastatin 40mg (17.4% vs 6.9%, p <0.001); switching from rosuvastatin 10mg to ezetimibe plus atorvastatin 20mg reduced LDL-C significantly more than uptitrating to rosuvastatin 20mg (17.1% vs 7.5%, p<0.001). Relative to comparative treatments, ezetimibe added to atorvastatin 10mg (periodI) or atorvastatin 20mg (period II) produced significantly greater percent attainment of LDL-C targets <100 or <70mg/dl, and significantly greater percent reductions in total cholesterol, non-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, most lipid and lipoprotein ratios, and apolipoprotein B (except ezetimibe plus atorvastatin 20 vs atorvastatin 40mg). Reports of adverse experiences were generally similar among groups. In conclusion, treatment of hypercholesterolemic subjects at high cardiovascular risk with ezetimibe added to atorvastatin 10 or 20mg produced significantly greater improvements in key lipid parameters and significantly greater attainment of LDL-C treatment targets than doubling atorvastatin or switching to (or doubling) rosuvastatin at thecompared doses.

UI  - 24053480
TI  - Efficacy of combination of Ezetimibe 10 mg and rosuvastatin 2.5 mg versus rosuvastatin 5 mg monotherapy for hypercholesterolemia in patients with type 2 diabetes.
AB  - UMIN000011005.

UI  - 24007452
TI  - Mobile health (mHealth) based medication adherence measurement - a pilot trial using electronic blisters in diabetes patients.
AB  - The results indicate that mHealth based adherence management is feasible and well accepted by patients with increased cardiovascular risk. It may help to increase adherence, even in patients with high baseline adherence and, subsequently, lead to improved control of indicators including blood pressure and cholesterol concentrations. Electronic blisters can be used in a multi-medication regimen but need to be carefully designed for day-to-day application.

UI  - 24032417
TI  - Observational study of ezetimibe discontinuation in primary care practices in the UK.
AB  - Prescribed ezetimibe often stopped without either a recent lipid value or attainment of optimal, or sometimes minimum, lipid targets. Patients did not always receive parallel intensification of other LMT or a further ezetimibe prescription within 6 months.

UI  - 24024750
TI  - Colesevelam in the treatment of hypercholesterolemia and hyperglycemia: a retrospective analysis from an ambulatory care medical network.
AB  - Colesevelam treatment in a real-world setting was associated with improvements in LDL-C and HBA1C through 24 months of follow-up.

UI  - 24013058
TI  - Mipomersen, an apolipoprotein B synthesis inhibitor, reduces atherogenic lipoproteins in patients with severe hypercholesterolemia at high cardiovascular risk: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - Mipomersen significantly reduced LDL cholesterol, apolipoprotein B, and lipoprotein(a) in patients with hypercholesterolemia with, or at risk for, coronary heart disease not controlled by existing therapies. (Safety and Efficacy of Mipomersen [ISIS 301012] as Add-On Therapy in High Risk Hypercholesterolemic Patients; NCT00770146).

UI  - 24007717
TI  - Atorvastatin and hormone therapy influence expression of ABCA1, APOA1 and SCARB1 in mononuclear cells from hypercholesterolemic postmenopausal women.
AB  - ABCA1 mRNA levels are decreased by atorvastatin and HT, however these treatments have a differential effect on APOA1 and SCARB1 expression in PBMC from postmenopausal women. Basal ABCA1 and SCARB1 expression profile could be helpful markers in predicting the effect of atorvastatin and HT on RCT, according to the changes in apoAI levels in this sample population.

UI  - 23998970
TI  - Efficacy and safety of morning versus evening dose of controlled-release simvastatin tablets in patients with hyperlipidemia: a randomized, double-blind, multicenter phase III trial.
AB  - Although controlled-release simvastatin significantly reduces LDL-C levels with good tolerability in Korean adults with dyslipidemia, the time of administration does not affect its efficacy.

UI  - 23950953
TI  - Electronegative low-density lipoprotein increases C-reactive protein expression in vascular endothelial cells through the LOX-1 receptor.
AB  - Our results suggest that CRP, L5, and LOX-1 form a cyclic mechanism in atherogenesis and that reducing plasma L5 levels with atorvastatin disrupts the vascular toxicity of L5.

UI  - 23940007
TI  - Impact of the JUPITER trial on statin prescribing for primary prevention.
AB  - The publication of the JUPITER trial did not significantly affect trends in overall statin and rosuvastatin prescribing patterns for primary prevention in this study. Increases in the relative market share of rosuvastatin may be attributed to the impact of the pharmaceutical industry on prescribing patterns. Our results highlight the need to further improve the integration of evidence-based prescribing into cost-effective clinical practice.

UI  - 23890351
TI  - Red yeast rice improves lipid pattern, high-sensitivity C-reactive protein, and vascular remodeling parameters in moderately hypercholesterolemic Italian subjects.
AB  - Despite a recent health claim by the European Agency on Food Safety, the effect of high doses of dietary monacolin supplements from red yeast rice on cholesterolemia has not been tested in Italian subjects. Our aim via a crossover, double-blind, placebo-controlled randomized clinical trial was to test if a short-term treatment with 10 mg monacolins could improve lipid pattern, high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP), and vascular remodeling biomarkers in a small cohort of Mediterranean subjects. Thus, 25 healthy, mildly hypercholesterolemic subjects were enrolled, and after 4 weeks of a stabilization diet, subjects were randomized to the sequence placebo-washout-monacolins or monacolins-washout-placebo, with each period being 4 weeks long. At each study step, a complete lipid pattern, safety parameters, hs-CRP, and matrix metalloproteinases 2 and 9 levels were measured. When compared to the placebo group, monacolins-treated patients experienced a more favorable percent change in total cholesterol (-12.45%, 95% CI -16.19 to -8.71), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (-21.99%, 95% CI -26.63 to -17.36), non-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (-14.67%, 95% CI -19.22 to -10.11), matrix metalloproteinase 2 (-28.05%, 95% CI -35.18 to -20.93), matrix metalloproteinase 9 (-27.19%, 95% CI -36.21 to -18.15), and hs-CRP (-23.77%, 95% CI -30.54 to -17.01). No significant differences were observed in regards to triglycerides, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and safety parameters. On the basis of our data, we demonstrate that a 10-mg monacolin nutraceutical appears to safely reduce cholesterolemia, hs-CRP, and markers of vascular remodeling in Italian subjects. These results have to be confirmed in larger patient samples and longer studies.

UI  - 23889716
TI  - Long-term follow-up of moderately hypercholesterolemic hypertensive patients following randomization to pravastatin vs usual care: the Antihypertensive and Lipid-Lowering Treatment to Prevent Heart Attack Trial (ALLHAT-LLT).
AB  - The authors conducted a randomized, controlled, multicenter trial, in which they assigned well-controlled hypertensive participants aged 55years and older with moderate hypercholesterolemia to receive pravastatin (n=5170) or usual care (n=5185) for 4 to 8years, when trial therapy was discontinued. Passive surveillance using national databases to ascertain deaths and hospitalizations continued for a total follow-up of 8 to 13years to assess whether mortality and morbidity differences persisted or new differences developed. During the post-trial period, fatal and nonfatal outcomes were available for 98% and 64% of participants, respectively. The primary outcome was all-cause mortality and the secondary outcomes included cardiovascular mortality, coronary heart disease (CHD), stroke, heart failure, cardiovascular disease, and end-stage renal disease. No significant differences appeared in mortality for pravastatin vs usual care (hazard ratio [HR], 0.96; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.89-1.03) or other secondary outcomes. Similar to the previously reported in-trial result, there was a significant treatment effect for CHD in black patients (HR, 0.79; 95% CI, 0.64-0.98). However, the in-trial result showing a significant treatment by race effect did not remain significant during the entire follow-up (P=.08). These findings are consistent with evidence from other large trials that show statins prevent CHD and add evidence that they are effective for CHD prevention in black patients.

UI  - 23884353
TI  - AMG145, a monoclonal antibody against proprotein convertase subtilisin kexin type 9, significantly reduces lipoprotein(a) in hypercholesterolemic patients receiving statin therapy: an analysis from the LDL-C Assessment with Proprotein Convertase Subtilisin Kexin Type 9 Monoclonal Antibody Inhibition Combined with Statin Therapy (LAPLACE)-Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction (TIMI) 57 trial.
AB  - AMG145 significantly reduces Lp(a), by up to 32%, among subjects with hypercholesterolemia receiving statin therapy, offering an additional, complementary benefit beyond robust low-density lipoprotein cholesterol reduction with regard to a patient's atherogenic lipid profile.

UI  - 23876492
TI  - Clinical and pharmacogenetic predictors of circulating atorvastatin and rosuvastatin concentrations in routine clinical care.
AB  - Interindividual variability in statin exposure in patients is associated with uptake and efflux transporter polymorphisms. An algorithm incorporating genomic and clinical variables to avoid high atorvastatin and rosuvastatin levels is described; further study will determine whether this approach reduces incidence of statin myopathy.

UI  - 23868627
TI  - Effects of a dietary supplement on cholesterol in subjects with moderate hypercholesterolemia.
AB  - The dietary supplement used in our study, in combination with a balanced diet and physical exercise, was found to induce a significant reduction in TC and LDL-C and an improvement in HDL-C. In contrast, while a balanced diet together with physical exercise but without the dietary supplement produced a significant reduction in TC, it had no significant effect on the other lipid parameters tested.

UI  - 23863812
TI  - Combination pravastatin and valsartan treatment has additive beneficial effects to simultaneously improve both metabolic and cardiovascular phenotypes beyond that of monotherapy with either drug in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia.
AB  - Statin and angiotensin II type 1 receptor blocker therapy improves endothelial dysfunction using distinct mechanisms. We evaluated simultaneous vascular and metabolic responses to pravastatin and valsartan therapy, alone or in combination, in hypercholesterolemic patients. Forty-eight hypercholesterolemic patients (23 had metabolic syndrome) were given pravastatin 40 mg and placebo, pravastatin 40 mg and valsartan 160 mg, or valsartan 160 mg and placebo daily during each 2-month treatment period in a randomized, single-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover trial with three treatment arms and two washout periods (each 2 months). Brachial artery flow-mediated dilation and C-reactive protein improved to a greater extent with combined therapy compared with either monotherapy. Importantly, we also observed simultaneous improvement in metabolic phenotypes, with all three treatments causing increased plasma adiponectin levels, reduced fasting insulin levels, and increased insulin sensitivity relative to baseline measurements. For the first time in a statin combination trial, pravastatin combined with valsartan therapy increased plasma adiponectin, lowered fasting insulin levels, and improved insulin sensitivity in an additive manner when compared with monotherapy alone. In contrast to other statins, hydrophilic pavastatin may be combined with other drugs to safely reach lipid target levels while simultaneously improving the metabolic and cardiovascular phenotype of patients at high risk.

UI  - 23860021
TI  - Relationship between adiponectin and leptin, and blood lipids in hyperlipidemia patients treated with red yeast rice.
AB  - Red yeast rice can significantly increase adiponectin and can significantly lower LDL-C and total cholesterol levels. Adiponectin correlates positively with HDL-C while serum leptin correlates negatively with TG. Red yeast rice has a potentially protective effect in obesity-related and cardiovascular diseases.

UI  - 23830568
TI  - [Acute myocardial infarction in Charleroi: evolution of risk factors and therapeutic practices].
AB  - The evolution of the therapeutic data on AMI in this register confirms that PTCA becomes the main coronary reperfusion. Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors were without effect on mortality.

UI  - 23823716
TI  - Regular consumption of a cocoa product improves the cardiometabolic profile in healthy and moderately hypercholesterolaemic adults.
AB  - Cocoa products present great health potential due to their high content of polyphenols, mainly of flavanols. However, the antioxidant, anti-inflammatory and other health effects of regularly consuming cocoa products seem to depend on the intake and health status of the consumer, etc. and need to be further clarified. A randomised, controlled, cross-over, free-living study was carried out in healthy (n 24) and moderately hypercholesterolaemic (>2000 mg/l, n 20) subjects to assess the influence of regularly consuming (4 weeks) two servings (15 g each) of a cocoa product rich in fibre (containing 339 % of total dietary fibre (TDF) and 139 mg/g of soluble polyphenols) in milk v. consuming only milk (control) on (1) serum lipid and lipoprotein profile, (2) serum malondialdehyde levels, carbonyl groups, ferric reducing/antioxidant power, oxygen radical absorbance capacity and free radical-scavenging capacity, (3) IL-1, IL-6, TNF-, IL-10, IL-8, monocyte chemoattractant protein-1, and vascular and intracellular cell adhesion molecule levels, and (4) systolic and diastolic blood pressure and heart rate. Throughout the study, the diet and physical activity of the volunteers, as well as any possible changes in weight or other anthropometric parameters, were also evaluated. The intake of TDF increased (P< 0001) to the recommended levels. Serum HDL-cholesterol (HDL-C) levels were increased (P< 0001), whereas glucose (P= 0029), IL-1 (P= 0001) and IL-10 (P= 0001) levels were decreased. The rest of the studied cardiovascular parameters, as well as the anthropometric ones, remained similar. In conclusion, regularly consuming a cocoa product with milk improves cardiovascular health by increasing HDL-C levels and inducing hypoglycaemic and anti-inflammatory effects in healthy and hypercholesterolaemic individuals without causing weight gain.

UI  - 23816039
TI  - Phytosterols, red yeast rice, and lifestyle changes instead of statins: a randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - The addition of phytosterol tablets to RYR did not result in further lowering of LDL-C levels. Participants in an LC program lost significantly more weight and were more likely to achieve an LDL-C <100 mg/dL compared with UC.

UI  - 23815518
TI  - A combined natural supplement lowers LDL cholesterol in subjects with moderate untreated hypercholesterolemia: a randomized placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - The NCLS was effective in reducing low-density lipoprotein cholesterol and apolipoprotein B100 in subjects with moderate hypercholesterolemia, without modifying safety parameters.

UI  - 23790584
TI  - [Feasibility of hand-held-ultrasonography in the screening of abdominal aortic aneurysms and abdominal aortic atherosclerosis].
AB  - After an adequate training in ultrasonography, hand-held ultrasound is a useful tool for AAA screening in Primary Care. Its simplicity, security, validity, cost-effectiveness and acceptance by the general population, makes it a feasible tool for cardiovascular risk assessment.

UI  - 23780807
TI  - Changes in cholesterol-lowering medications use over a decade in community-dwelling older adults.
AB  - The use of cholesterol-lowering medication increased substantially over a decade in community-dwelling elderly individuals but was not related to a change in level or trend following the release of the guidelines and evidence-based data.

UI  - 23770179
TI  - Efficacy and safety of a novel dual modulator of adenosine triphosphate-citrate lyase and adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase in patients with hypercholesterolemia: results of a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group trial.
AB  - ETC-1002 significantly lowered LDL-C levels up to 27% across a broad range of baseline triglycerides and was generally safe and well tolerated. ETC-1002 has a novel mechanism of action and may be useful for reducing LDL-C. (A Study to Assess the Efficacy and Safety of ETC-1002 in Subjects With Elevated Blood Cholesterol and Either Normal or Elevated Triglycerides; NCT01262638).

UI  - 23759268
TI  - Could dyslipidemic children benefit from glucomannan intake?
AB  - Treatment with glucomannan of children affected by primary dyslipidemia is well-tolerated and effectively lowers total and LDL cholesterol in females and non-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, but not Apolipoprotein B in both males and females.

UI  - 23747163
TI  - Isolated third, fourth, and sixth cranial nerve palsies from presumed microvascular versus other causes: a prospective study.
AB  - In our series of patients with acute isolated ocular motor nerve palsies, a substantial proportion of patients had other causes, including neoplasm, GCA, and brain stem infarction. Brain MRI and laboratory workup have a role in the initial evaluation of older patients with isolated acute ocular motor nerve palsies regardless of whether vascular risk factors are present.

UI  - 23743804
TI  - Simplified therapeutic intervention to control hypertension and hypercholesterolemia: a cluster randomized controlled trial (STITCH2).
AB  - The STITCH2 algorithm resulted in significantly greater use of any SPC compared with Guidelines-care and greater use of the SPC of calcium channel blocker/statin. Unwillingness of the prescribing physician to advance treatment beyond a monotherapy threshold was found to be an important determinant for failing to achieve blood pressure control. In contrast, the more important determinant for failing to achieve LDL control appeared to be the unwillingness of the prescribing physician to initiate therapy with a statin.

UI  - 23739650
TI  - Increasing doses of simvastatin versus combined ezetimibe/simvastatin: effect on circulating endothelial progenitor cells.
AB  - Among stable patients with CAD and with an LDL-C >70 mg/dL on simvastatin 20 mg, increasing simvastatin dose to 80 mg or adding ezetimibe 10 mg promoted similar further cholesterol reduction but did not have incremental effects on circulating EPCs. These data suggest that the effects of simvastatin moderate doses on EPCs are not increased by intensive lipid-lowering strategies (clinicaltrials.gov: NCT00474123).

UI  - 23733031
TI  - Flaxseed in pediatric hyperlipidemia: a placebo-controlled, blinded, randomized clinical trial of dietary flaxseed supplementation for children and adolescents with hypercholesterolemia.
AB  - The use of dietary flaxseed supplementation, while safe, was associated with adverse changes in the lipid profile of children with hypercholesterolemia, although a potential benefit of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol lowering could not be excluded. The use of flaxseed supplementation in children with hypercholesterolemia might not be a viable option for lipid management in this population. TRIAL REGISTRATION clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT01007344.

UI  - 23726359
TI  - Retrospective lifetime dietary patterns are associated with demographic and cardiovascular health variables in an older community-dwelling Australian population.
AB  - Dietary patterns derived from factor analytic procedures have been demonstrated to predict demographic and health outcomes across a wide range of populations. To examine the potential utility of long-term dietary recall, in the present study, we examined associations between dietary patterns from across the lifespan and demographic and later-life cardiovascular-related health variables, using the Lifetime Diet Questionnaire (LDQ). The LDQ is a self-administered, non-quantitative, retrospective FFQ designed to assess dietary intake from childhood to older age. Participants (n 352) from the Older People, Omega-3 and Cognitive Health trial, aged 65-91 years, completed the LDQ. Exploratory factor analysis was conducted on the LDQ and plausible dietary patterns were derived. As a result, three patterns were extracted from each life period, with five distinct patterns overall; these were 'traditional Australian' and 'non-traditional Australian', 'high-sugar and high-fat', 'vegetable' and 'fruit and vegetable' patterns. In separate adjusted regression models, age, sex, education, income, parental background and childhood physical activity all significantly predicted dietary patterns across the lifespan. A 'traditional Australian' pattern in childhood predicted higher HDL-cholesterol levels and lower odds of cholesterol medication use; lower HDL-cholesterol levels were predicted by the adult 'processed, high-sugar and high-fat' pattern, and higher intake of a 'non-traditional Australian' pattern in adulthood also predicted lower odds of using cardiac medications. Lifetime dietary recall, as instantiated by the LDQ, provides a hitherto untapped source of long-term dietary information in older adults that may contribute to greater understanding of the impact exerted by early-life and cumulative dietary choices on later-life health.

UI  - 23694999
TI  - Open-label pilot study on vitamin D supplementation for antipsychotic-associated metabolic anomalies.
AB  - Previous studies have linked vitamin D deficiency to hypertension, dyslipidemia, diabetes mellitus, and cardiovascular disease. The aim of this study was to investigate the short-term effects of vitamin D supplementation on weight and glucose and lipid metabolism in antipsychotic-treated patients. A total of 19 schizophrenic or schizoaffective patients (BMI>27 kg/m) taking atypical antipsychotics were recruited and dispensed a 2000 IU daily dose of vitamin D. On comparing baseline with week 8 (study end) results, we found a statistically significant increase in vitamin D and total vitamin D levels but no statistically significant changes in weight, glucose, or lipids measurements. Patients whose vitamin D level at week 8 was 30 ng/ml or more achieved a significantly greater decrease in total cholesterol levels compared with those whose week 8 vitamin D measurement was less than 30 ng/ml. These results suggest that a randomized trial with a longer follow-up period would be helpful in further evaluating the effects of vitamin D on weight, lipid metabolism, and on components of metabolic syndrome in antipsychotic-treated patients.

UI  - 23672789
TI  - Comparison of pitavastatin with atorvastatin in increasing HDL-cholesterol and adiponectin in patients with dyslipidemia and coronary artery disease: the COMPACT-CAD study.
AB  - Long-term treatment with pitavastatin resulted in significantly greater increases in serum HDL-C and ApoAI levels without adverse effects on glucose metabolism, compared with atorvastatin.

UI  - 23672463
TI  - Randomized controlled trial assessing the effect of simvastatin in primary biliary cirrhosis.
AB  - Statin therapy in patients with PBC appears safe and effective towards overall reductions in total cholesterol and LDL levels. Our initial study suggests that simvastatin may also confer advantageous effects on endothelial function and antioxidant status.

UI  - 23658438
TI  - Atorvastatin, etidronate, or both in patients at high risk for atherosclerotic aortic plaques: a randomized, controlled trial.
AB  - URL: http://www.umin.ac.jp/ctr/. Unique identifier: UMIN 000002635.

UI  - 23647398
TI  - Achieving recommended low density lipoprotein cholesterol goals and the factors associated with target achievement of hypercholesterolemia patients with rosuvastatin in primary care.
AB  - Our observations of the short period for hypercholesterolemia in Korean primary care has revealed that the rate of achieving target LDL-C levels was high in these patients, whereas patients at higher risk for cardiovascular disease tended to have lower LDL-C achievement outcomes. Primary care physicians should pay more attention to patients showing higher cardiovascular risk and stress the need for good adherence and management regimens in these individuals.

UI  - 23635051
TI  - The Oregon experiment--effects of Medicaid on clinical outcomes.
AB  - This randomized, controlled study showed that Medicaid coverage generated no significant improvements in measured physical health outcomes in the first 2 years, but it did increase use of health care services, raise rates of diabetes detection and management, lower rates of depression, and reduce financial strain.

UI  - 23623012
TI  - Phytosterol capsules and serum cholesterol in hypercholesterolemia: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Daily intake of capsules containing 2g phytosterols did not reduce total- or LDL-cholesterol significantly in a highly relevant target group for the use of phytosterol products. The present results may emphasize the importance of choosing a suitable dosage-delivery system in order to achieve optimal cholesterol lowering effect. The study was registered at www.clinicaltrials.gov, IDno:NCT00485095.

UI  - 23616506
TI  - Acute consumption of walnuts and walnut components differentially affect postprandial lipemia, endothelial function, oxidative stress, and cholesterol efflux in humans with mild hypercholesterolemia.
AB  - Walnut consumption improves cardiovascular disease risk; however, to our knowledge, the contribution of individual walnut components has not been assessed. This study evaluated the acute consumption of whole walnuts (85 g), separated nut skins (5.6 g), de-fatted nutmeat (34 g), and nut oil (51 g) on postprandial lipemia, endothelial function, and oxidative stress. Cholesterol efflux (ex vivo) was assessed in the whole walnut treatment only. A randomized, 4-period, crossover trial was conducted in healthy overweight and obese adults (n = 15) with moderate hypercholesterolemia. There was a treatment  time point interaction for triglycerides (P < 0.01) and increased postprandial concentrations were observed for the oil and whole walnut treatments (P < 0.01). Walnut skins decreased the reactive hyperemia index (RHI) compared with baseline (P = 0.02) such that a difference persisted between the skin and oil treatments (P = 0.01). The Framingham RHI was maintained with the oil treatment compared with the skins and whole nut (P < 0.05). There was a treatment effect for the ferric reducing antioxidant potential (FRAP) (P < 0.01), and mean FRAP was greater with the oil and skin treatments compared with the nutmeat (P < 0.01). Cholesterol efflux increased by 3.3% following whole walnut consumption in J774 cells cultured with postprandial serum compared with fasting baseline (P = 0.02). Walnut oil favorably affected endothelial function and whole walnuts increased cholesterol efflux. These 2 novel mechanisms may explain in part the cardiovascular benefits of walnuts.

UI  - 23609838
TI  - Oral supplementation with probiotic L. reuteri NCIMB 30242 increases mean circulating 25-hydroxyvitamin D: a post hoc analysis of a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - To our knowledge, this is the first report of increased circulating 25-hydroxyvitamin D in response to oral probiotic supplementation.

UI  - 23598534
TI  - Diurnal glucose profiles using continuous glucose monitoring to identify the glucose-lowering characteristics of colesevelam HCl (Welchol).
AB  - AGP analysis of CGM visually and quantitatively showed immediate and midterm impacts of C-HCl on basal and postprandial glucose patterns. This suggests a multifactorial glucose-lowering mechanism for C-HCl affecting both meal-related and basal glucose levels.

UI  - 23571719
TI  - A weight loss diet intervention has a similar beneficial effect on both metabolically abnormal obese and metabolically healthy but obese premenopausal women.
AB  - These findings reinforce the idea that MHO women would also benefit from a lifestyle weight reduction intervention.

UI  - 23565931
TI  - Gender differences in cardiovascular disease risk factors, treatments and complications in patients with type 2 diabetes: the RIACE Italian multicentre study.
AB  - In women with type 2 diabetes from the RIACE cohort, a more adverse CVD risk profile and a higher likelihood of failing treatment targets, compared with men, were not associated with treatment differences. This suggests that factors other than gender disparities in treatment intensity are responsible.

UI  - 23546564
TI  - Discontinuation of statins in routine care settings: a cohort study.
AB  - National Library of Medicine, Diabetes Action Research and Education Foundation, and Chinese National Key Program of Clinical Science.

UI  - 23541266
TI  - Relationship between low-density lipoprotein levels on admission and 1-year outcome in patients with acute ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction.
AB  - This study assessed the relationship between low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) levels on admission and the incidence of major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) in patients with acute ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction (ASTEMI). Patients with ASTEMI who had a lipid profile tested within 24 hours of symptom onset were enrolled. They were stratified into high and low LDL-C groups according to whether their LDL-C was above (n=501) or below (n=575) the median level, respectively. The incidence of MACE, cardiovascular death, non-fatal MI, revascularization, and stroke was compared between the groups at 1 month, 6 months, and 1 year. Survival analysis and Cox proportional hazard analysis were performed. In-hospital use of beta blockers was better in the high than in the low LDL-C group (76.6% vs. 69.7%, p=0.01). Statin use was significantly higher in the high than in the low LDL-C group during follow-up (86.8% vs. 80.0%, p=0.003 at1 month; 71.6% vs. 62.4%, p=0.002 at 6 months; 67.8% vs. 61.2%, p=0.03 at 1 year). The incidence of MACE on follow-up at 1 month was higher in the low than in the high LDL-C group (12.0% vs. 8.1%, p=0.04). At 1 year, survival was not significantly different between the groups. Cox proportional hazards analysis indicated that the incidence of MACE was significantly associated with hypertension, current smoking, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C), in-hospital use of beta blockers, and statin use on follow-up (p<0.01). LDL-C levels on admission in patients with ASTEMI had no significant effect on the 6-month and 1-year incidence of MACE, but the incidence of MACE was significantly higher in the low LDL-C group at 1 month. It would be relevant to further investigate the HDL-C level on admission, in-hospital use of beta blockers, and statin use during follow-up in relation to MACE.

UI  - 23538020
TI  - Impact of adding ezetimibe to statin to achieve low-density lipoprotein cholesterol goal (from the Clinical Outcomes Utilizing Revascularization and Aggressive Drug Evaluation [COURAGE] trial).
AB  - In the Clinical Outcomes Utilizing Revascularization and Aggressive Drug Evaluation (COURAGE) study, a revascularization strategy trial with optimal medical therapy in both arms, the low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol goal was 60 to 85 mg/dl; this was revised to <70 mg/dl in 2004. COURAGE patients (n= 2,287) were titrated with increasing statin doses to achieve the initial LDL cholesterol goal using a prespecified protocol. Ezetimibe was not available when study enrollment began in 1999 but became available after approval in 2003. After maximizing statin dose, ezetimibe was added to reach the LDL cholesterol goal in 34% of patients (n= 734). Median baseline LDL cholesterol was higher in patients who received ezetimibe than in those who did not (109 vs 96 mg/dl). At baseline, 18% of patients who would later receive ezetimibe had LDL cholesterol <85 mg/dl, and 8% had LDL cholesterol <70 mg/dl. On maximum tolerated statin (with or without other lipid-lowering drugs), 40% had LDL cholesterol <85 mg/dl and 23% had LDL cholesterol <70mg/dl before starting ezetimibe. At the final study visit, 68% of ezetimibe patients achieved LDL cholesterol <85 mg/dl, and 46% achieved LDL cholesterol <70 mg/dl. Using Cox regression analysis, the most significant factors associated with achieving LDL cholesterol goals were lower baseline LDL cholesterol, average statin dose, and ezetimibe use. In conclusion, after maximizing statin dose, the addition of ezetimibe results in a substantial increase in the percentage of patients who reach LDL cholesterol goal, a key component of optimal medical therapy.

UI  - 23537492
TI  - Effectiveness of a motivational interviewing intervention on weight loss, physical activity and cardiovascular disease risk factors: a randomised controlled trial with a 12-month post-intervention follow-up.
AB  - The present study suggests that a low-intensity MI counselling intervention is effective in bringing about long-term changes in some, but not all, health-related outcomes (walking, cholesterol levels) associated with CVD risk. The intervention was particularly effective for patients with elevated levels of CVD risk factors at baseline. Based on these findings future interventions should be conducted in a primary care setting and target patients with high risk of CVD. Future research should investigate how the long-term gains in health-related outcomes brought about by the MI-counselling intervention in the current study could be extended to a wider range of health outcomes.

UI  - 23522341
TI  - Importance of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol control during pravastatin treatment in hypercholesterolemic Japanese with type 2 diabetes mellitus: a post hoc analysis of MEGA study.
AB  - To investigate the role of HDL-C in cardiovascular risk reduction, we evaluated using data from a diabetic population in a large clinical trial with pravastatin. A significant risk reduction in CVD was found only in diabetic patients who had both a reduction in LDL-C and an increase in HDL-C.

UI  - 23511950
TI  - Use of high potency statins and rates of admission for acute kidney injury: multicenter, retrospective observational analysis of administrative databases.
AB  - Use of high potency statins is associated with an increased rate of diagnosis for acute kidney injury in hospital admissions compared with low potency statins. The effect seems to be strongest in the first 120 days after initiation of statin treatment.

UI  - 23510154
TI  - A multicomponent lifestyle intervention produces favourable changes in diet quality and cardiometabolic risk indices in hypercholesterolaemic adults.
AB  - The present study revealed that this 3-month lifestyle and nutrition counselling intervention programme appears to have favourable effects on diet quality, physical activity levels, anthropometric and certain cardiometabolic risk indices.

UI  - 23494544
TI  - Cholesterol levels and the association of statins with in-hospital mortality of myocardial infarction patients insights from a Chilean registry of myocardial infarction.
AB  - In the Chilean registry of MI patients, low HDL-C was the main lipid disturbance. Very early statin use after MI appears to be associated with a borderline significant and independent reduction of in-hospital mortality.

UI  - 23478699
TI  - Effect of resistance training and hypocaloric diets with different protein content on body composition and lipid profile in hypercholesterolemic obese women.
AB  - In this study, resistance training plays a key role in improving LDL-C and Total-Cholesterol; however, a lower protein intake (< 22% of daily energy intake as proteins) was found to achieve a significantly greater reduction in LDL-C.

UI  - 23466100
TI  - Effects of pravastatin on serum adiponectin levels in female patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - In female patients with type 2 diabetes and hypercholesterolemia, 16 weeks pravastatin therapy did not affect on serum total adiponectin or HMW adiponectin levels.

UI  - 23453352
TI  - Low dose chromium-polynicotinate or policosanol is effective in hypercholesterolemic children only in combination with glucomannan.
AB  - This is the first report to show the cholesterol-lowering efficacy of GM combined treatment with low-dose CP or PC. Further studies are needed to investigate the best combinations and doses of nutraceutics to be added to the standard GM treatment. The potential negative association of GM and nutraceutics with starch is clearly shown.

UI  - 23449607
TI  - Effects of low-dose atorvastatin on arterial stiffness and central aortic pressure augmentation in patients with hypertension and hypercholesterolemia.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov Database Identifier Number: NCT01126684.

UI  - 23444963
TI  - Kimchi, a fermented vegetable, improves serum lipid profiles in healthy young adults: randomized clinical trial.
AB  - Vegetable-based diets have generally focused on their health benefits including negative associations with the serum cholesterol concentrations. The aim of this study was to investigate whether serum lipid concentrations are influenced by the amount of kimchi intake. For the study, 100 volunteers were assigned to 2 dietary groups, low (15 g/day, n=50) and high (210g/day, n=50) kimchi intake, and were housed together in a dormitory for 7 days. Identical meals except with different amount of kimchi were provided and subjects were instructed to maintain their normal physical activity. Concentrations of fasting blood glucose (FBG), total glucose, total cholesterol and low density lipoprotein (LDL)-C significantly decreased in both groups after 7 days of kimchi intake, but the effects were dose dependent. Lipid lowering effects of kimchi were more profound in the subjects with total cholesterol and LDL-C level over 190 and 130 mg/dL, respectively, in both groups. FBG was significantly decreased in the high kimchi intake as compared to the low intake group (P=.003). In conclusion, greater consumption of kimchi improved FBG and serum total cholesterol in young healthy adults.

UI  - 23442351
TI  - Impact of effectiveness information format on patient choice of therapy and satisfaction with decisions about chronic disease medication: the "Influence of intervention Methodologies on Patient Choice of Therapy (IMPACT)" cluster-randomised trial in general practice.
AB  - This randomised clinical trial compares the impact of two effectiveness formats on real-life risk communication between patients and GPs, including affective patient outcomes and actual choices about acceptance of therapy. Though we found difficulties in recruiting GPs, according to the study protocol we have succeeded in engaging sufficient GPs for the trial, enabling us to perform the planned analyses.

UI  - 23428922
TI  - Intensive lipid-lowering therapy for slowing progression as well as inducing regression of atherosclerosis in Japanese patients: subanalysis of the JART study.
AB  - This paper describes a subanalysis of the JART Study comparing rosuvastatin and pravastatin treatment. A total of 314 subjects were analyzed in this subanalysis, 282 of whom were eligible for evaluation of the relationship between LDL-C and carotid mean-IMT change. In the subanalysis, we evaluated the extent to which intensive lipid-lowering therapy slowed the mean-IMT progression by a correlation analysis between LDL-C and mean-IMT change after 12 months of statin treatment. Nearly half were male (49.4%) and elderly (49.7%). The majority (84.4%) were treated for primary prevention. Patients with hypertension and diabetes mellitus accounted for 65.3% and 44.0%, respectively. At the 12-month measurement point, mean-IMT change was correlated with LDL-C (R = 0.187; P = 0.0016), LDL-C/ HDL-C ratio (R = 0.152; P = 0.0105), and non-HDL-C (R = 0.132; P = 0.0259). Mean-IMT after 12 months was divided into 4 subgroups by LDL-C at 12 months; < 80,  80 to < 100,  100 to < 120, and  120 mg/dL. A trend analysis using the Jonckheere-Terpstra test showed statistical signifi cance (P = 0.0002). Even for prevention in Japanese patients who have lower risk of atherosclerotic disease than Western patients, lowering the LDL-C level to below the therapeutic target prevented mean-IMT progression after 12 months more strongly. These findings suggest that more intensive control of LDL-C to levels lower than those in current JAS guidelines should be required to achieve slowing of progression as well as induction of regression of atherosclerosis.

UI  - 23403978
TI  - Automated outreach to increase primary adherence to cholesterol-lowering medications.
AB  - The intervention was effective in reducing primary nonadherence to statin medications. Because of low marginal costs for outreach, this strategy appears feasible for reducing primary nonadherence. This approach may generalize well to other medications and chronic conditions.

UI  - 23394493
TI  - Increased oxidative stress and coenzyme Q10 deficiency in juvenile fibromyalgia: amelioration of hypercholesterolemia and fatigue by ubiquinol-10 supplementation.
AB  - Fibromyalgia (FM) is characterized by generalized pain and chronic fatigue of unknown etiology. To evaluate the role of oxidative stress in this disorder, we measured plasma levels of ubiquinone-10, ubiquinol-10, free cholesterol (FC), cholesterol esters (CE), and free fatty acids (FFA) in patients with juvenile FM (n=10) and in healthy control subjects (n=67). Levels of FC and CE were significantly increased in juvenile FM as compared with controls, suggesting the presence of hypercholesterolemia in this disease. However, plasma level of ubiquinol-10 was significantly decreased and the ratio of ubiquinone-10 to total coenzyme Q10 (%CoQ10) was significantly increased in juvenile FM relative to healthy controls, suggesting that FM is associated with coenzyme Q10 deficiency and increased oxidative stress. Moreover, plasma level of FFA was significantly higher and the content of polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA) in total FFA was significantly lower in FM than in controls, suggesting increased tissue oxidative damage in juvenile FM. Interestingly, the content of monoenoic acids, such as oleic and palmitoleic acids, was significantly increased in FM relative to controls, probably to compensate for the loss of PUFA. Next, we examined the effect of ubiquinol-10 supplementation (100 mg/day for 12 weeks) in FM patients. This resulted in an increase in coenzyme Q10 levels and a decrease in %CoQ10. No changes were observed in FFA levels or their composition. However, plasma levels of FC and CE significantly decreased and the ratio of FC to CE also significantly decreased, suggesting that ubiquinol-10 supplementation improved cholesterol metabolism. Ubiquinol-10 supplementation also improved chronic fatigue scores as measured by the Chalder Fatigue Scale.

UI  - 23382331
TI  - Normotension, prehypertension, and hypertension in urban middle-class subjects in India: prevalence, awareness, treatment, and control.
AB  - The study found a low prevalence of normotension and high prevalence of hypertension in middle-class urban Asian Indians. Significant associations of hypertension were found with age, dietary fat, consumption of fruits and vegetables, smoking, and obesity. Normotensive individuals had a lower prevalence of cardiometabolic risk factors than did members of the prehypertensive or hypertensive groups. Half of the hypertensive group were aware of having hypertension, a third were receiving treatment for it, and quarter had a controlled BP.

UI  - 23358971
TI  - Exemestane versus anastrozole in postmenopausal women with early breast cancer: NCIC CTG MA.27--a randomized controlled phase III trial.
AB  - This first comparison of steroidal and nonsteroidal classes of aromatase inhibitors showed neither to be superior in terms of breast cancer outcomes as 5-year initial adjuvant therapy for postmenopausal breast cancer by two-way test. Less toxicity on bone is compatible with one hypothesis behind MA.27 but requires confirmation. Exemestane should be considered another option as up-front adjuvant therapy for postmenopausal hormone receptor-positive breast cancer.

UI  - 23352626
TI  - [Prevalence and risk factors of peripheral arterial disease in an outpatient screening campaign].
AB  - Primary prevention outpatient screening of a population with intermediate or high cardiovascular risk can identify numerous patients with PAD. The medical impact in terms of cardiovascular mortality and morbidity of such a screening needs to be assessed.

UI  - 23302603
TI  - Smoking, hypercholesterolaemia and hypertension as risk factors for cognitive impairment in older adults.
AB  - smoking and elevated blood pressure may be risk factors for cognitive decline, and thus potential targets for preventive and therapeutic interventions.

UI  - 23288881
TI  - A comparison of efficacy and safety of an ezetimibe/simvastatin combination compared with other intensified lipid-lowering treatment strategies in diabetic patients with symptomatic cardiovascular disease.
AB  - The low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) lowering efficacy of switching to ezetimibe/simvastatin (EZ/S) 10/20 mg versus doubling the run-in statin dose (to simvastatin 40 mg or atorvastatin 20 mg) or switching to rosuvastatin 10 mg in subjects with cardiovascular disease (CVD) and diabetes was assessed. Endpoints included percentage change in LDL-C and percentage of patients achieving LDL-C <70 mg/dL. Significantly greater reductions in LDL-C occurred when switching to EZ/S versus statin doubling in the overall population and in subjects treated with simvastatin 20 mg or atorvastatin 10 mg (all p < 0.001). The LDL-C reduction was numerically greater when switching to EZ/S versus switching to rosuvastatin (p = 0.060). Significantly more subjects reached LDL-C <70 mg/dL with EZ/S (54.5%) versus statin doubling (27.0%) or rosuvastatin (42.5%) in the overall population (all p < 0.001) and within each stratum (all p < 0.001). Switching to EZ/S provided significantly greater reductions in LDL-C versus statin doubling and significantly greater achievement of LDL-C targets versus statin doubling or switching to rosuvastatin.

UI  - 23288870
TI  - Effect of simvastatin/ezetimibe 10/10 mg versus simvastatin 40 mg on serum vitamin D levels.
AB  - For similar LDL-C lowering simvastatin 40 mg is associated with greater increase in 25(OH)VitD compared to simvastatin/ezetimibe 10/10 mg. Whether this difference is relevant in terms of CVD risk reduction is unknown.

UI  - 23274145
TI  - Assessment of the efficacy and tolerability of 2 formulations of atorvastatin in Korean adults with hypercholesterolemia: a multicenter, prospective, open-label, randomized trial.
AB  - There were no significant differences observed in the efficacy and tolerability between the test and reference formulations of atorvastatin in these Korean adult patients with primary hypercholesterolemia.

UI  - 23266743
TI  - Effect on LDL-cholesterol of a large dose of a dietary supplement with plant extracts in subjects with untreated moderate hypercholesterolaemia: a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study.
AB  - Supplementation with twice the recommended dose of the DS was effective in reducing LDL-cholesterol and appeared safe, but according to the present results, no additional benefit could be achieved compared to the recommended dose.

UI  - 23262496
TI  - 25-hydroxyvitamin D insufficiency is associated with impaired renal endothelial function and both are improved with rosuvastatin treatment.
AB  - Thus, vitamin D insufficiency is associated with impaired endothelial function in the renal vasculature and both were beneficially influenced by the treatment with rosuvastatin.

UI  - 23259529
TI  - Angiotensin II type 1 and type 2 receptor expression in circulating monocytes of diabetic and hypercholesterolemic patients over 3-month rosuvastatin treatment.
AB  - Our study on monocytes of diabetic-hypercholesterolemic patients, showing a reduced AT1R but not AT2R expression during rosuvastatin treatment, suggests that statin therapy may modulate favorably the AT1-AT2 receptor balance in subjects with coexistent type 2 diabetes.

UI  - 23237107
TI  - Alteration of relation of atherogenic lipoprotein cholesterol to apolipoprotein B by intensive statin therapy in patients with acute coronary syndrome (from the Limiting UNdertreatment of lipids in ACS With Rosuvastatin [LUNAR] Trial).
AB  - The low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol goal of <70 mg/dl, recommended for patients with acute coronary syndrome, typically requires intensive therapy with high-dose statins. The secondary goals of non-high-density lipoprotein (non-HDL) cholesterol <100 mg/dl and apolipoprotein B (ApoB) <80 mg/dl have been recommended to reduce excess cardiovascular risk not captured by LDL cholesterol. The present post hoc analysis from the Limiting UNdertreatment of lipids in Acute coronary syndrome with Rosuvastatin (LUNAR) study examined the relation of ApoB with LDL cholesterol and non-HDL cholesterol at baseline and during treatment with intensive statin therapy. The LUNAR participants had acute coronary syndrome and received rosuvastatin 40 mg/day or 20mg/day or atorvastatin 80 mg/day for 12 weeks. Linear regression analyses were used to compare ApoB, direct LDL cholesterol, and non-HDL cholesterol at baseline and during therapy. Of the 682 patients included in the analysis, 220 had triglycerides 200 mg/dl. Linear regression analysis showed that correlation of ApoB and non-HDL cholesterol was stronger than that of ApoB and LDL cholesterol and stronger with statin therapy than at baseline (R(2)= 0.93 for ApoB vs non-HDL cholesterol with statins). The target of ApoB of80mg/dl correlated with LDL cholesterol of 90 mg/dl and non-HDL cholesterol of 110mg/dl at baseline and with LDL cholesterol of 74 mg/dl and non-HDL cholesterol of 92mg/dl with statin therapy. For high-triglyceride patients, the corresponding on-treatment targets were LDL cholesterol of 68 mg/dl and non-HDL cholesterol of 92 mg/dl. In conclusion, non-HDL cholesterol is an adequate surrogate of ApoB during statin therapy, independent of triglyceride status. However, to match LDL cholesterol and ApoB treatment goals in the very-high-risk category, the current non-HDL cholesterol goal should be lowered by 8to 10mg/dl.

UI  - 23224509
TI  - Multi-centre European experience with intragastric balloon in overweight populations: 13 years of experience.
AB  - The intragastric balloon is safe and effective in overweight patients, helping to reduce progression to obesity and decreasing the prevalence of a number of important co-morbidities.

UI  - 23197250
TI  - Effects of adding ezetimibe to fluvastatin on kidney function in patients with hypercholesterolemia: a randomized control trial.
AB  - Combined therapy with fluvastatin 20 mg plus ezetimibe 10 mg daily resulted in a significant improvement in changes in the estimated glomerular filtration rate.

UI  - 23187951
TI  - -glucans reduce LDL cholesterol in patients with myasthenia gravis.
AB  - We aimed at evaluating whether -glucans could improve low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol levels and/or glycemic control in patients with myasthenia gravis (MG), in whom statins usually have muscle-related side effects. Fifty-nine MG patients participated in the study and received a daily dietary supplement of 3 g of -glucans during 8 weeks. Body mass index (BMI) and blood sample analysis of lipid and glucose status were performed before and after 8 weeks intake of -glucans. In the 52 patients who completed the study, there was a significant reduction in total cholesterol, LDL, ApoA1 and ApoB (all P<0.003). However, glycemic control and BMI were unaltered. The present study indicates that 8 weeks daily intake of 3 g of -glucans significantly reduces total cholesterol, LDL, ApoA1 and ApoB in MG patients. -glucans may therefore be of value in improving lipid status in MG patients, without the muscle-related side effects accompanied by statins.

UI  - 23177484
TI  - Cross-analysis of dietary prescriptions and adherence in 356 hypercholesterolaemic patients.
AB  - Improving patient education, especially concerning their perception of risk, as well as increasing the involvement of dieticians, are motivators to explore in order to improve adherence.

UI  - 23174369
TI  - Effects of pitavastatin and atorvastatin on lipoprotein oxidation biomarkers in patients with dyslipidemia.
AB  - The VISION study describes the first comparison on lipoprotein oxidation biomarkers between pitavastatin and atorvastatin and suggests diverse effects on lipoprotein oxidation markers in patients with hypercholesterolemia.

UI  - 23171573
TI  - Persimmon fruit tannin-rich fiber reduces cholesterol levels in humans.
AB  - Bile acid-binding agents are known to lower blood cholesterol levels and have been clinically used for the treatment of hypercholesterolemia. We previously showed that tannin-rich fiber from young persimmon (Diospyros kaki) fruits had bile acid-binding properties. In this study, we performed a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial to investigate the hypocholesterolemic effects of tannin-rich fiber in humans. The subjects (n = 40, plasma total cholesterol levels 180-259 mg/dl) were divided into 3 groups and ingested cookie bars containing 0 g (placebo group, n = 14), 3 g (low-dose group, n = 13), or 5 g (high-dose group, n = 13) of tannin-rich fiber 3 times daily before meals for 12 weeks. Plasma total cholesterol levels decreased significantly in the low-dose (12 weeks, p < 0.005) and high-dose (6 weeks, p < 0.05; 12 weeks, p < 0.001) groups. In addition, plasma low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels decreased significantly in the high-dose group (6 weeks, p < 0.05; 12 weeks, p < 0.001). These improvements were not accompanied by changes in plasma high-density lipoprotein cholesterol or plasma triglyceride levels. Our findings indicate that tannin-rich fiber from young persimmon fruits is a useful food material for treating hypercholesterolemia.

UI  - 23171320
TI  - Intermittent fasting combined with calorie restriction is effective for weight loss and cardio-protection in obese women.
AB  - These findings suggest that IF combined with CR and liquid meals is an effective strategy to help obese women lose weight and lower CHD risk.

UI  - 23170931
TI  - Colesevelam plus rosuvastatin 5mg/day versus rosuvastatin 10mg/day alone on markers of insulin resistance in patients with hypercholesterolemia and impaired fasting glucose.
AB  - The combination of colesevelam with rosuvastatin 5mg/day may be associated with favorable effects on markers of insulin resistance compared with rosuvastatin 10mg/day in patients with hypercholesterolemia and IFG. Whether this is associated with less new-onset diabetes remains unknown.

UI  - 23157464
TI  - Determinants of lipid goal achievement in patients on extended-release nicotinic acid/laropiprant in primary care clinical practice.
AB  - DMP participation was not associated with overall improved lipid goal attainment. Physicians cannot predict the magnitude of effects of newly initiated lipid modifying therapy based on baseline characteristics of their patients.

UI  - 23152839
TI  - Randomized, placebo-controlled trial of mipomersen in patients with severe hypercholesterolemia receiving maximally tolerated lipid-lowering therapy.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00794664.

UI  - 23151354
TI  - Kiwifruit consumption favourably affects plasma lipids in a randomised controlled trial in hypercholesterolaemic men.
AB  - The unique composition of green kiwifruit has the potential to benefit CVD risk. The aim of the present study was to investigate the effect of consuming two green kiwifruits daily in conjunction with a healthy diet on plasma lipids and other metabolic markers and to examine response according to APOE genotype in hypercholesterolaemic men. After undergoing a 4-week healthy diet, eighty-five hypercholesterolaemic men (LDL-cholesterol (LDL-C) > 3.0 mmol/l and TAG < 3 mmol/l) completed an 8-week randomised controlled cross-over study of two 4-week intervention sequences of two green kiwifruits per d plus healthy diet (intervention) or healthy diet alone (control). Anthropometric measures, blood pressure (BP) and fasting blood samples (plasma lipids, serum apoA1 and apoB, insulin, glucose, high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP)) were taken at baseline, and at 4 and 8 weeks. After the kiwifruit intervention, plasma HDL-cholesterol (HDL-C) concentrations were significantly higher (mean difference 0.04; 95% CI 0.01, 0.07 mmol/l; P = 0.004) and the total cholesterol (TC):HDL-C ratio was significantly lower (mean difference 20.5; 95% CI 20.24, 20.05 mmol/l; P = 0.002) compared with the control. In carriers of the APOE4 allele, TAG decreased significantly (mean difference -0.18; 95% CI -0.34, -0.02 mol/l; P = 0.03) with kiwifruit compared with control. There were no significant differences between the two interventions for plasma TC, LDL-C, insulin, glucose, hs-CRP and BP. The small but significant increase in HDL-C and decrease in TC:HDL-C ratio and TAG (in APOE4 carriers) suggest that the regular inclusion of green kiwifruit as part of a healthy diet may be beneficial in improving the lipid profiles of men with high cholesterol.

UI  - 23141813
TI  - Efficacy, safety, and tolerability of a monoclonal antibody to proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 in combination with a statin in patients with hypercholesterolaemia (LAPLACE-TIMI 57): a randomised, placebo-controlled, dose-ranging, phase 2 study.
AB  - Amgen.

UI  - 23141812
TI  - Efficacy, safety, and tolerability of a monoclonal antibody to proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 as monotherapy in patients with hypercholesterolaemia (MENDEL): a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, phase 2 study.
AB  - Amgen.

UI  - 23138324
TI  - Unfavourable cardiovascular disease risk profiles in a cohort of Dutch and British haemophilia patients.
AB  - Cardiovascular disease (CVD) mortality is reported to be decreased in haemophilia patients, but reports on the prevalence of CVD risk factors are conflicting. A cross-sectional assessment of CVD risk profiles was performed in a large cohort of haemophilia patients. Baseline data on CVD risk factors of 709 Dutch and UK haemophilia patients aged 30 years were analysed and compared with the general age-matched male population. CVD risk profiles were assessed using the QRISK2-2011 and SCORE algorithms. Although QRISK 2 was only validated in the UK, comparison with SCORE indicated similar properties of QRISK2 in both Dutch and UK patients (correlation 0.86). Mean age was 49.8 years. Hypertension was more common in haemophilia patients than in the general population (49% vs. 40%), while the prevalences of obesity and hypercholesterolaemia were lower (15 vs. 20% and 44 vs. 68%, respectively), and those of diabetes and smoking were similar. The predicted 10-year QRISK2 risk was significantly higher in haemophilia patients than in the general population (8.9 vs. 6.7%), indicating more unfavourable cardiovascular disease risk profiles. This increased risk became apparent after the age of 40 years. Our results indicate an increased prevalence of hypertension and overall more unfavourable CVD risk profiles in haemophilia patients compared with the general age-matched male population.

UI  - 23134888
TI  - APOE genotype influences triglyceride and C-reactive protein responses to altered dietary fat intake in UK adults.
AB  - Relative to the wild-type APOE3/E3 group, our results indicate a greater sensitivity of fasting triglycerides and CRP to dietary fat manipulation in those with an APOE3/E4 genotype (25% population), with no effect of this allelic profile on cholesterol concentrations.

UI  - 23128163
TI  - Effect of a monoclonal antibody to PCSK9 on low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels in statin-intolerant patients: the GAUSS randomized trial.
AB  - In this phase 2 study in statin-intolerant patients, subcutaneous administration of a monoclonal antibody to PCSK9 significantly reduced LDL cholesterol levels and was associated with short-term tolerability. TRIAL REGISTRATION clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT01375764.

UI  - 23113833
TI  - Atorvastatin with or without an antibody to PCSK9 in primary hypercholesterolemia.
AB  - In a randomized trial involving patients with primary hypercholesterolemia, adding SAR236553 to either 10 mg of atorvastatin or 80 mg of atorvastatin resulted in a significantly greater reduction in LDL cholesterol than that attained with 80 mg of atorvastatin alone. (Funded by Sanofi and Regeneron Pharmaceuticals; ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT01288469.).

UI  - 23100282
TI  - Impact of common genetic variation on response to simvastatin therapy among 18 705 participants in the Heart Protection Study.
AB  - Common genetic variants do not appear to alter the lipid response to statin therapy by more than a few per cent, and there were similar large reductions in vascular risk with simvastatin irrespective of genotypes associated with the lipid response to simvastatin. Consequently, their value for informing clinical decisions related to maximizing statin efficacy appears to be limited.

UI  - 23096013
TI  - Novel soybean oils differing in fatty acid composition alter immune functions of moderately hypercholesterolemic older adults.
AB  - Linoleic acid (LA) and -linolenic acid (ALA) are essential fatty acids that play an important role in modulation of T cell proliferation. The effects of consuming novel soybean oils varying in LA:ALA ratios on T cell proliferation and inflammatory responses were assessed in older adults. Eighteen participants (>50 y old) with elevated cholesterol concentrations (3.37-4.14 mmol/L LDL cholesterol) consumed 5 experimental diets in random order for periods of 35 d. Each diet contained 30% of energy as fat, two-thirds of which was high-oleic acid soybean oil (HiOleic-SO), soybean oil (SO), low-SFA soybean oil (LoSFA-SO), hydrogenated soybean oil (Hydrog-SO), or low-ALA soybean oil (LoALA-SO), resulting in LA:ALA ratios of 2.98, 8.70, 9.69, 15.2, and 18.3, respectively. Participants had higher proliferative responses to phytohemagglutinin (PHA) compared with baseline following consumption of SO (26%; P < 0.05), LoSFA-SO (22%; P < 0.05), or HiOleic-SO (24%; P < 0.05) diets. Proliferative response was similar to the baseline after participants consumed diets with an LA:ALA ratio >10 (Hydrog-SO and LoALA-SO). Post-diet intervention, LA:ALA ratios correlated with proliferative responses to PHA (r = -0.87; P = 0.05). An optimal proliferative response was observed at an LA:ALA ratio of 8.70, with an inverse correlation between proliferative response and LA:ALA ratios >8.70. These effects were independent of changes in the production of PGE(2), inflammatory cytokines, or cytokines involved in growth of lymphocytes. These data suggest that the LA:ALA ratio modulates the proliferative ability of T lymphocytes, which may be due to subtle changes in fatty acid composition of the phospholipids in immune cells.

UI  - 23088297
TI  - Metabolomics reveals the metabolic shifts following an intervention with rye bread in postmenopausal women--a randomized control trial.
AB  - This study revealed favorable shifts in branched amino acid and single carbon metabolism and an unfavorable shift in serum cholesterol levels after RB intake in postmenopausal women, which should be considered for evaluating health beneficial effects of rye products.

UI  - 23083772
TI  - Effects of AMG 145 on low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels: results from 2 randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, ascending-dose phase 1 studies in healthy volunteers and hypercholesterolemic subjects on statins.
AB  - In phase 1 studies, AMG 145 significantly reduced serum LDL-C in healthy and hypercholesterolemic statin-treated subjects, including those with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia or taking the highest doses of atorvastatin or rosuvastatin, with an overall AE profile similar to placebo.

UI  - 23063475
TI  - Is the risk of new-onset diabetes by statins associated with diet adherence?
AB  - 

UI  - 23063168
TI  - No effect of high-dose atorvastatin on leukotriene B formation from neutrophils in patients treated with coronary bypass surgery: a randomized placebo-controlled double-blinded trial with a crossover design.
AB  - Inflammation plays a pivotal role in the pathophysiology of cardiovascular disease, (CVD) and leukotrienes may play a role in atherogenesis. Statins reduce mortality from CVD by reducing LDL cholesterol and potentially by other (pleiotropic) mechanisms. The aim of this study was to investigate if atorvastatin exerts an anti-inflammatory effect by reducing leukotriene B (LTB) formation from stimulated neutrophils in patients treated with coronary artery bypass grafting. The study was a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blinded crossover study. Patients (n=80) were allocated to 80 mg atorvastatin or placebo for 6 weeks before crossing over to the opposite treatment for another 6 weeks. There was no significant correlation between baseline LDL cholesterol levels on formation of LTB, and atorvastatin had no effect on LTB formation. Hence, this study does not support any effect of atorvastatin on LTB formation as part of the explanation for its beneficial effect on CVD.

UI  - 23062767
TI  - Effect of simvastatin or its combination with ezetimibe on Toll-like receptor expression and lipopolysaccharide - induced cytokine production in monocytes of hypercholesterolemic patients.
AB  - A high simvastatin dose or the combination of a low-dose simvastatin with ezetimibe reduce to a similar extent TLR2, TLR4 membrane expression and LPS-induced IL-6 and IL-1 production in monocytes of hypercholesterolemic patients. The pathophysiological significance of these effects regarding atherosclerosis, reserves further investigation.

UI  - 23040830
TI  - Effects of ezetimibe added to statin therapy on markers of cholesterol absorption and synthesis and LDL-C lowering in hyperlipidemic patients.
AB  - Patients on high-potency statins have the lowest levels of cholesterol synthesis markers and the highest levels of cholesterol absorption markers at baseline, and the greatest reduction in absorption markers and the smallest increases in synthesis markers with ezetimibe addition. Therefore, such patients may be good candidates for ezetimibe therapy if additional LDL-C lowering is needed.

UI  - 23033993
TI  - Synergistic effects of exposure to concentrated ambient fine pollution particles and nitrogen dioxide in humans.
AB  - NO exposure may produce and enhance acute cardiovascular effects of PM(2.5)CAPs. Assessment of health effects by ambient PM should consider its interactions with gaseous copollutants.

UI  - 23033884
TI  - Effects of ezetimibe on visceral fat in the metabolic syndrome: a randomised controlled study.
AB  - Ezetimibe reduces visceral fat with beneficial effects on adiponectin and insulin resistance in patients with metabolic syndrome, suggesting a new therapeutic approach in such patients.

UI  - 23018041
TI  - Arterial function and structure after a 1-year lifestyle intervention in children with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.
AB  - Also in obese children with NAFLD arterial function may be restored by improving metabolic risk factors and reducing visceral adiposity following a 1-year lifestyle intervention.

UI  - 23017585
TI  - Cholesterol-lowering efficacy of Lactobacillus plantarum CECT 7527, 7528 and 7529 in hypercholesterolaemic adults.
AB  - Previous studies have indicated that supplementation with probiotic bacteria may improve lipid metabolism. The present study was aimed at investigating the effects of a mixture of three strains of Lactobacillus plantarum (CECT 7527, CECT 7528 and CECT 7529) on cholesterol-lowering efficacy in hypercholesterolaemic patients. A total of sixty volunteers (thirty participants in the placebo group and thirty counterparts in the L. plantarum group), aged 1865 years old, participated in a controlled, randomised, double-blind trial. The study group received one capsule daily containing 12  10(9) colony-forming units of Lactobacillus strains in a unique dose; the placebo group consumed the same product without bacteria for 12 weeks. A significant reduction of 136 % in plasma total cholesterol (TC) levels was observed after 12 weeks of consumption in the L. plantarum group when compared with the placebo group. The lipidic outcomes were also analysed based on TC values at baseline: low initial values (LIV, 2000-2500 mg/l) v. high initial values (HIV, 25103000 mg/l). In the HIV group, the L. plantarum treatment showed a reduction after 12 weeks of consumption compared with the placebo group in TC, LDL-cholesterol (LDL-C) and oxidised LDL-C (174, 176 and 156 %, respectively). In the LIV, the L. plantarum treatment only showed a reduction after 12 weeks of consumption when compared with the placebo group in TC (94 %). The present results showed that the biofunctionality of L. plantarum (CECT 7527, CECT 7528 and CECT 7529) is proportional to the cardiovascular risk of the patient, having a better effect in patients with higher levels of cholesterol.

UI  - 22998978
TI  - Nutraceutical pill containing berberine versus ezetimibe on plasma lipid pattern in hypercholesterolemic subjects and its additive effect in patients with familial hypercholesterolemia on stable cholesterol-lowering treatment.
AB  - The alternative treatments tested in our HCH subjects were rather effective and safe. The findings in HeFH patients suggest that BBR might act in vivo increasing expression and stability of LDLRs and/or suppressing PCSK9 expression.

UI  - 22990854
TI  - Cholesterol lowering and inhibition of sterol absorption by Lactobacillus reuteri NCIMB 30242: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - The present results suggest that the deconjugation of intraluminal bile acids results in reduced absorption of non-cholesterol sterols and indicate that L. reuteri NCIMB 30242 capsules may be useful as an adjunctive therapy for treating hypercholesterolemia.

UI  - 22990043
TI  - Niacin administration significantly reduces oxidative stress in patients with hypercholesterolemia and low levels of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol.
AB  - Oxidative stress has been implicated in the pathogenesis of cardiovascular disorders, including atherosclerosis. In pharmacological doses, niacin (vitamin B3) was proven to reduce total cholesterol, triglyceride, very-low-density lipoprotein, and low-density lipoprotein levels, and to increase high-density lipoprotein (HDL) levels. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of niacin treatment in patients with low levels of HDL cholesterol (HDL-C; <40 mg%) on their lipid profile and oxidative stress status. Seventeen patients with hypercholesterolemia and low HDL-C and 8 healthy control subjects were enrolled in the study. The patients were treated with niacin for 12 weeks. Lipid profile, oxidative stress and C-reactive protein (CRP) levels were determined at the time of enrollment, and 2 and 12 weeks after initiation of niacin treatment. Subjects with lower HDL-C levels exhibited higher oxidative stress compared with subjects with normal HDL-C levels. Niacin treatment in hypercholesterolemic patients caused a significant increase in HDL-C and apolipoprotein A1 levels, and a decrease in triglyceride levels. Niacin also significantly reduced oxidative stress, as measured by a significant decrease in the serum content of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances, lipid peroxides and paraoxonase activity, compared with the levels before treatment. Although serum CRP levels were not affected by niacin treatment, a correlation between CRP and HDL levels was obtained when computing the results. Niacin treatment in hypercholesterolemic patients with low HDL levels caused a significant decrease in their oxidative stress status. These results indicate an additional beneficial effect of niacin beyond its ability to affect the lipid profile.

UI  - 22975714
TI  - The association between obesity and acute myocardial infarction is age- and gender-dependent in a Japanese population.
AB  - Controversies concerning the association between obesity and acute myocardial infarction (AMI) are still ongoing in Japan. We investigated the association between obesity defined by body mass index of 25 kg/m(2) or higher and AMI by a case-control study using data from 1199 AMI cases and 4056 apparently healthy controls. The analysis was performed in age- and sex-matched samples of 621 case-control pairs younger than 80 years and in crude samples aged 40-79 years divided into 10-year age groups. Prevalence of obesity, diabetes, current smoking, hypertension, and hypercholesterolemia were compared between cases and controls, and a multivariable odds ratio (OR) of AMI was calculated for each risk factor in various age groups. The OR (95 % confidence interval (CI)) of AMI for obesity was 1.63 (1.23-2.17), P = 0.0008 in men younger than 80 years; 2.65 (1.41-5.00), P = 0.0025 in women younger than 80 years; 2.23 (1.46-3.41), P = 0.0002 in men aged 59 years or younger; 1.34 (0.90-2.01), P = 0.1510 in men aged 60-79 years; and 2.98 (1.56-5.71), P = 0.0010 in women aged 60-79 years using paired samples. The OR (95 % CI) of AMI for obesity was 4.92 (2.53-9.58), P < 0.0001 in men aged 40-49 years; 1.54 (1.07-2.21), P = 0.0197 in men aged 50-59 years; 1.07 (0.69-1.66), P = 0.7717 in men aged 60-69 years; 2.24 (1.20-4.20), P = 0.0118 in men aged 70-79 years; 2.48 (1.12-5.48), P = 0.0245 in women aged 60-69 years; and 3.05 (1.46-6.37), P = 0.0029 in women aged 70-79 years using crude samples. The association between obesity and AMI was age- and gender-dependent in a Japanese population.

UI  - 22951625
TI  - Aerobic training-induced improvements in arterial stiffness are not sustained in older adults with multiple cardiovascular risk factors.
AB  - There is a well-established relationship between increased arterial stiffness and cardiovascular mortality. We examined whether a long-term aerobic exercise intervention (6 months) would increase arterial compliance in older adults with hypertension complicated by Type 2 diabetes (T2DM) and hyperlipidemia. A total of 52 older adults (mean age 69.30.6 years, 30 males and 22 females) with diet/oral hypoglycemic-controlled T2DM, hypertension and hypercholesterolemia were recruited. Subjects were randomly assigned to one of two groups: an aerobic group (6 months vigorous aerobic exercise, AT group) and a non-aerobic group (6 months of no aerobic exercise, NA group). Arterial stiffness was measured as pulse-wave velocity (PWV) using the Complior device. Aerobic training decreased arterial stiffness as measured by both radial (P=0.001, 2-way analysis of variance with repeated measures) and femoral (P=0.002) PWV. This was due to a decrease in arterial stiffness in the AT group after 3 months of training, which was not maintained after 6-month training for either radial (P=0.707) or femoral (P=0.680) PWV. Our findings indicate that in older adults with multiple cardiovascular risk factors, short-term improvements in arterial stiffness became attenuated over the long term.

UI  - 22948945
TI  - Chitin-glucan fiber effects on oxidized low-density lipoprotein: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - In this 6-week study, CG (4.5g/day) reduced OxLDL, an effect that might affect the risk for atherosclerosis.

UI  - 22944158
TI  - [Effect and risk factors of pitavastatin on high sensitivity C-reactive protein in patients with hypercholesterolemia: a multilevel models analysis].
AB  - Pitavastatin decreases hsCRP in patients with hypercholesterolemia. The main risk factors for the effect are pulse pressure and white blood cell count on the baseline.

UI  - 22943820
TI  - [The effect of pitavastatin on blood glucose and its efficacy in diabetic patients with hypercholesterolemia].
AB  - Pitavastatin has a safe effect on blood glucose and it could be used to treat diabetic patients combined with hypercholesterolemia in China.

UI  - 22936193
TI  - In vivo influence of extract from Aronia melanocarpa on the erythrocyte membranes in patients with hypercholesterolemia.
AB  - Our study shows that supplementation of extract from Aronia melanocarpa has a beneficial effect on rheological properties of erythrocytes.

UI  - 22933212
TI  - Is level of social support associated with health behaviours modifying cardiovascular risk? Results of the WOBASZ study.
AB  - Persons with low SSL had more unhealthy lifestyle than those without. In Polish population the low SSL played a greater role in creating the cardiovascular risk in women than in men.

UI  - 22917075
TI  - Sheep cheese naturally enriched in -linolenic, conjugated linoleic and vaccenic acids improves the lipid profile and reduces anandamide in the plasma of hypercholesterolaemic subjects.
AB  - Intake of dairy fat has long been considered as a risk factor for CVD. Pasture and dietary lipid supplementation have been reported to be reliable strategies in ruminant nutrition, in order to increase the content of -linolenic acid (ALA), conjugated linoleic acid (CLA) and vaccenic acid (VA), and decrease SFA in milk fat. In the present study, we aimed at verifying whether consumption of a sheep cheese, naturally enriched in ALA, CLA and VA, would modify the plasma lipid and endocannabinoid profiles in mildly hypercholesterolaemic subjects. A total of forty-two adult volunteers (nineteen males and twenty-three females) with diagnosed mildly hypercholesterolaemia (total cholesterol 568-749 mmol/l) were randomly assigned to eat 90 g/d of a control or enriched cheese for 3 weeks, with a cross-over after 3 weeks of washout. Plasma lipids, endocannabinoids, adipokines and inflammatory markers were measured. The intake of enriched cheese significantly increased the plasma concentrations of CLA, VA, the n-3 fatty acids ALA and EPA, and more remarkably decreased that of the endocannabinoid anandamide. LDL-cholesterol decreased significantly (7%). No changes were detected in the levels of inflammatory markers; however, a significant correlation was found between the plasma levels of anandamide and leptin. The control cheese modified none of the parameters measured. The results obtained do not support the view that intake of dairy fat is detrimental to hypercholesterolaemic subjects. Indeed, they show that a naturally enriched cheese possesses beneficial properties, since it ameliorates the plasma lipid profile, and more remarkably reduces endocannabinoid biosynthesis.

UI  - 22906565
TI  - Anti-inflammatory effect of purified dietary anthocyanin in adults with hypercholesterolemia: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Anthocyanin mixture reduced the inflammatory response in hypercholesterolemic subjects. In addition, different anthocyanin compounds were found to have additive or synergistic effects in mediating anti-inflammatory responses in vitro cell culture assays.

UI  - 22900989
TI  - Association of cholesteryl ester transfer protein mass with peripheral leukocyte count following statin therapy: a pilot study.
AB  - The results suggest that residual cardiovascular risk after atorvastatin treatment may be associated with the CETP mass, which may be increased by switching to pitavastatin. Furthermore, a CETP mass-activating strategy may assist the therapeutic efficacy of statins.

UI  - 22866937
TI  - Randomized controlled trial of oatmeal consumption versus noodle consumption on blood lipids of urban Chinese adults with hypercholesterolemia.
AB  - Instant oatmeal consumed daily for 6 weeks significantly increased fiber intake and decreased major risk factors for CVD in Chinese adults with hypercholesterolemia. Increased consumption of whole grains, including oats, should continue to be encouraged.

UI  - 22848358
TI  - Hypercholesterolemia is associated with the apolipoprotein C-III (APOC3) genotype in children receiving HAART: an eight-year retrospective study.
AB  - Polymorphisms in apolipoprotein genes have shown to be predictors of plasma lipid levels in adult cohorts receiving highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART). Our objective was to confirm the association between the APOC3 genotype and plasma lipid levels in an HIV-1-infected pediatric cohort exposed to HAART. A total of 130 HIV-1-infected children/adolescents that attended a reference center in Argentina were selected for an 8-year longitudinal study with retrospective data collection. Longitudinal measurements of plasma triglycerides, total cholesterol, HDL-C and LDL-C were analyzed under linear or generalized linear mixed models. The contribution of the APOC3 genotype at sites -482, -455 and 3238 to plasma lipid levels prediction was tested after adjusting for potential confounders. Four major APOC3 haplotypes were observed for sites -482/-455/3238, with estimated frequencies of 0.60 (C/T/C), 0.14 (T/C/C), 0.11 (C/C/C), and 0.11 (T/C/G). The APOC3 genotype showed a significant effect only for the prediction of total cholesterol levels (p<0.0001). However, the magnitude of the differences observed was dependent on the drug combination (p=0.0007) and the drug exposure duration at the time of the plasma lipid measurement (p=0.0002). A lower risk of hypercholesterolemia was predicted for double and triple heterozygous individuals, mainly at the first few months after the initiation of Ritonavir-boosted protease inhibitor-based regimens. We report for the first time a significant contribution of the genotype to total cholesterol levels in a pediatric cohort under HAART. The genetic determination of APOC3 might have an impact on a large portion of HIV-1-infected children at the time of choosing the treatment regimens or on the counter-measures against the adverse effects of drugs.

UI  - 22836514
TI  - Milk phospholipid and plant sterol-dependent modulation of plasma lipids in healthy volunteers.
AB  - Milk PL supplementations influence plasma cholesterol concentrations, but without changes of LDL/HDL ratio. A combined high-dose milk PL and PSt supplementation decreases plasma LDL cholesterol concentration, but it probably enforces absorption of fatty acids or fatty acid-containing hydrolysis products that originated during lipid digestion.

UI  - 22836071
TI  - Evaluation of short-term safety and efficacy of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors in hypercholesterolemic patients with elevated serum alanine transaminase concentrations: PITCH study (PITavastatin versus atorvastatin to evaluate the effect on patients with hypercholesterolemia and mild to moderate hepatic damage).
AB  - Conventional doses of pitavastatin and atorvastatin effectively and safely reduce elevated hepatic enzyme concentrations.

UI  - 22831708
TI  - High HbA1c levels correlate with reduced plaque regression during statin treatment in patients with stable coronary artery disease: results of the coronary atherosclerosis study measuring effects of rosuvastatin using intravascular ultrasound in Japanese subjects (COSMOS).
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov, Identifier NCT00329160.

UI  - 22829524
TI  - Statin intake is associated with decreased insulin sensitivity during cardiac surgery.
AB  - Preoperative use of lipophilic statins is associated with increased insulin resistance during cardiac surgery in nondiabetic, dyslipidemic patients.

UI  - 22815989
TI  - Randomized Polypill crossover trial in people aged 50 and over.
AB  - Controlled-Trials.com ISRCTN36672232.

UI  - 22810465
TI  - Antioxidant and inflammatory response following high-fat meal consumption in overweight subjects.
AB  - Present results indicate that as a consequence of an excess of dietary fat, the body responds through an inflammatory reaction, which is accompanied by an increment of endogenous antioxidant defenses, mediated by UA and SH, but not by vitamins C and E and carotenoids. Although further studies are needed, results of the current investigation represent novel findings on endogenous strategies of redox defense from fat overloads.

UI  - 22809114
TI  - Impact of age and gender on blood pressure and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol reduction: results of a pooled analysis.
AB  - Simultaneous reduction of BP to below 150mmHg and LDL-C using SPAA is both effective and well-tolerated among younger and older men and women, including those aged75 years. Clinicians may be reassured by the low proportion of AEs that led to discontinuation in all groups suggesting that older patients were not disadvantaged by this treatment.

UI  - 22801416
TI  - Differences in synthesis and absorption of cholesterol of two effective lipid-lowering therapies.
AB  - Effective statin therapy is associated with a marked reduction of cardiovascular events. However, the explanation for full benefits obtained for LDL cholesterol targets by combined lipid-lowering therapy is controversial. Our study compared the effects of two equally effective lipid-lowering strategies on markers of cholesterol synthesis and absorption. A prospective, open label, randomized, parallel design study, with blinded endpoints, included 116 subjects. We compared the effects of a 12-week treatment with 40 mg rosuvastatin or the combination of 40 mg simvastatin/10 mg ezetimibe on markers of cholesterol absorption (campesterol and -sitosterol), synthesis (desmosterol), and their ratios to cholesterol. Both therapies similarly decreased total and LDL cholesterol, triglycerides and apolipoprotein B, and increased apolipoprotein A1 (P < 0.05 vs baseline for all). Simvastatin/ezetimibe increased plasma desmosterol (P = 0.012 vs baseline), and decreased campesterol and -sitosterol (P < 0.0001 vs baseline for both), with higher desmosterol (P = 0.007) and lower campesterol and -sitosterol compared to rosuvastatin, (P < 0.0001, for both). In addition, rosuvastatin increased the ratios of these markers to cholesterol (P < 0.002 vs baseline for all), whereas simvastatin/ezetimibe significantly decreased the campesterol/cholesterol ratio (P = 0.008 vs baseline) and tripled the desmosterol/cholesterol ratio (P < 0.0001 vs baseline). The campesterol/cholesterol and -sitosterol/cholesterol ratios were lower, whereas the desmosterol/cholesterol ratio was higher in patients receiving simvastatin/ezetimibe (P < 0.0001 vs rosuvastatin, for all). Pronounced differences in markers of cholesterol absorption and synthesis were observed between two equally effective lipid-lowering strategies.

UI  - 22796122
TI  - Lipid effects of a dietary supplement softgel capsule containing plant sterols/stanols in primary hypercholesterolemia.
AB  - The incorporation of softgel capsules providing esterified plant sterols/stanols 1.8 g/d into the NCEP TLC diet produced favorable changes in atherogenic lipoprotein cholesterol levels in these subjects with hypercholesterolemia.

UI  - 22787067
TI  - Comparison of risk factor reduction and tolerability of a full-dose polypill (with potassium) versus low-dose polypill (polycap) in individuals at high risk of cardiovascular diseases: the Second Indian Polycap Study (TIPS-2) investigators.
AB  - The full-dose polycap (plus K(+) supplementation) reduces BP and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol to a greater extent compared with the low dose, with similar tolerability. Therefore, the full-dose polycap should potentially lead to larger benefits. Clinical Trial Registration- URL: http://www.ctri.nic.in. Unique identifier: CTRI/2010/091/000054.

UI  - 22785328
TI  - Reactivity of direct assays for low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol toward charge-modified LDL in hypercholesterolemia.
AB  - The 2 homogenous assays for LDL-C differed with regard to reactivity toward LDL particles and cmLDL in patients with HC. Direct measurement of LDL-C that reflects modified LDL, could be a better marker for the risk of coronary heart disease.

UI  - 22781570
TI  - [Safety and efficacy of pitavastatin in patients with hypercholesterolemia: a multicenter study].
AB  - Pitavastatin demonstrates positive safety and efficacy. It may be used for the treatment of patients with hypercholesterolemia in China.

UI  - 22777149
TI  - Effect of treatment with pravastatin or ezetimibe on endothelial function in patients with moderate hypercholesterolemia.
AB  - In this study, two treatments that lower cholesterol via different mechanisms improved endothelial function to a similar extent, suggesting that the observed effect can be explained by the reduction of cholesterol levels.

UI  - 22773602
TI  - Atorvastatin reduces serum cholesterol and triglycerides with limited improvement in vascular function in adults with sickle cell anemia.
AB  - 

UI  - 22748604
TI  - Discontinuation of statin therapy due to muscular side effects: a survey in real life.
AB  - Muscular symptoms associated with average dosage statin therapy are more frequent than in clinical trials and have a greater impact on patients' life than usually thought.

UI  - 22746542
TI  - Beneficial effects of artichoke leaf extract supplementation on increasing HDL-cholesterol in subjects with primary mild hypercholesterolaemia: a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of artichoke leaf extract (ALE) supplementation (250 mg, 2 b.i.d.) on the lipid pattern. A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial was performed on 92 overweight subjects with primary mild hypercholesterolaemia for 8 weeks. Forty-six subjects were randomized to supplementation (age: 54.2  6.6 years, body mass index (BMI): 25.8  3.9 kg/m(2), male/female: 20/26) and 46 subjects to placebo (age: 53.8  9.0 years, BMI: 24.8  1.6 kg/m(2), male/female: 21/25). Verum supplementation was associated with a significant increase in mean high-density lipoprotein (HDL)-cholesterol (p < 0.001) and in mean change in HDL-cholesterol (HDL-C) (p = 0.004). A significantly decreased difference was also found for the mean change in total cholesterol (p = 0.033), low-density lipoprotein (LDL)-cholesterol (p < 0.001), total cholesterol/HDL ratio (p < 0.001) and LDL/HDL ratio (p < 0.001), when verum and placebo treatment were compared. These results indicate that ALE could play a relevant role in the management of mild hypercholesterolaemia, favouring in particular the increase in HDL-C, besides decreasing total cholesterol and LDL-cholesterol.

UI  - 22739802
TI  - Impact of food matrix on isoflavone metabolism and cardiovascular biomarkers in adults with hypercholesterolemia.
AB  - The role of food matrix and gender on soy isoflavone metabolism and biomarkers of activity were examined in twenty free-living adults (34.7  11.5 years old) with hypercholesterolemia (221.9  18.7mg dL(-1)). In a randomized crossover design study, participants consumed soy bread (3 wk) or a soy beverage (3 wk) containing 20 g soy protein with 99 and 93 mg isoflavones aglycone equivalents per day, respectively. During soy bread intervention, women had significantly greater microbial metabolite excretion (P = 0.05) of isoflavonoids than men. In men, isoflavone metabolite excretion was not discernibly different between the two matrices. Significant reductions (P 0.05) in triglycerides (24.8%), LDL cholesterol (6.0%), apolipoprotein A-I (12.3%), and lipid oxidative stress capacity (25.5%), were observed after soy food intervention. Our findings suggest that the food matrix significantly impacts soy isoflavone metabolism, particularly microbial metabolites in women.

UI  - 22714699
TI  - Design and rationale of the LAPLACE-TIMI 57 trial: a phase II, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of the efficacy and tolerability of a monoclonal antibody inhibitor of PCSK9 in subjects with hypercholesterolemia on background statin therapy.
AB  - Lowering low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) is a cornerstone for the prevention of atherosclerotic heart disease, improving clinical outcomes and reducing vascular mortality in patients with hypercholesterolemia. The clinical benefits of LDL-C reduction appear to extend even to patients starting with LDL-C as low as 60-80 mg/dL prior to initiating therapy. Statins are the first-line agents for treating hypercholesterolemia and are effective in reducing LDL-C, but many patients are unable to achieve their optimal lipid targets despite intensive statin therapy. Therefore, there has been a strong impetus for the development of novel pharmacologic agents designed to lower LDL-C further in patients already on statin therapy. Genetic mutations resulting in altered cholesterol homeostasis provide valuable information regarding novel approaches for treating hypercholesterolemia. To that end, mutations in proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9) were linked to altered levels of LDL-C, illustrating this protein's role in lipid metabolism. PCSK9 promotes degradation of the LDL receptor, preventing its transport back to the cell surface and thereby increasing circulating LDL-C. Conversely, inhibition of PCSK9 can profoundly decrease circulating LDL-C, and thus is an attractive new target for LDL-C-lowering therapy. AMG 145 is a fully human monoclonal immunoglobulin G2 antibody that binds specifically to human PCSK9 and inhibits its interaction with the low-density lipoprotein receptor. In this manuscript, we describe the rationale and design of LDL-C Assessment with PCSK9 Monoclonal Antibody Inhibition Combined With Statin Therapy-Thrombolysis In Myocardial Infarction 57 (LAPLACE-TIMI 57; NCT01380730), a 12-week, randomized, double-blind, dose-ranging, placebo-controlled study designed to assess the safety and efficacy of AMG 145 when added to statin therapy in patients with hypercholesterolemia.

UI  - 22698766
TI  - Effect of high-oleic canola and flaxseed oils on energy expenditure and body composition in hypercholesterolemic subjects.
AB  - The data suggest that substituting a typical Western dietary fatty acid profile with HOCO or FXCO does not significantly modulate energy expenditure, substrate oxidation or body composition in hypercholesterolemic males and females.

UI  - 22689050
TI  - Hypotensive, hypoglycaemic and antioxidant effects of consuming a cocoa product in moderately hypercholesterolemic humans.
AB  - This preliminary study suggests that CP might be considered part of a dietary approach or a functional food or ingredient for the food industry to achieve hypotensive and hypoglycemic effects in moderately hypercholesterolemic subjects without inducing changes in body weight and waist circumference, although results should be confirmed in a longer, controlled human study.

UI  - 22687231
TI  - Cardiovascular risk reduction following diagnosis of diabetes by screening: 1-year results from the ADDITION-Cambridge trial cohort.
AB  - It is possible to achieve significant reductions in modelled CVD risk over 14 months following diagnosis of diabetes by screening. Risk reduction appeared to be driven mainly by prescription of higher numbers of drugs, decreased energy intake, and weight reduction. There was room for further risk reduction, as many patients were not prescribed recommended treatments.

UI  - 22679249
TI  - Pitavastatin shows greater lipid-lowering efficacy over 12 weeks than pravastatin in elderly patients with primary hypercholesterolaemia or combined (mixed) dyslipidaemia.
AB  - Pitavastatin provides superior efficacy and comparable tolerability to pravastatin in elderly patients.

UI  - 22659533
TI  - Double-dose pravastatin versus add-on ezetimibe with low-dose pravastatin - effects on LDL cholesterol, cholesterol absorption, and cholesterol synthesis in Japanese patients with hypercholesterolemia (PEAS study).
AB  - Adding ezetimibe to low-dose pravastatin achieves greater decreases in LDL-C, apo B, and cholesterol absorption markers than doubling the dose of pravastatin.

UI  - 22633472
TI  - Identical LDL-cholesterol lowering but non-identical effects on NF-B activity: High dose simvastatin vs combination therapy with ezetimibe.
AB  - High dose simvastatin therapy reduces proinflammatory transcription factor NF-B binding activity and hsCRP levels, while combination of low dose simvastatin with ezetimibe resulting in a similar LDL-reduction does not affect these inflammatory markers.

UI  - 22621316
TI  - Efficacy, safety and tolerability of ongoing statin plus ezetimibe versus doubling the ongoing statin dose in hypercholesterolemic Taiwanese patients: an open-label, randomized clinical trial.
AB  - Registered at ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT00652327.

UI  - 22615342
TI  - Immediate antioxidant and antiplatelet effect of atorvastatin via inhibition of Nox2.
AB  - URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT01322711.

UI  - 22581735
TI  - ASPIRE-2-PREVENT: a survey of lifestyle, risk factor management and cardioprotective medication in patients with coronary heart disease and people at high risk of developing cardiovascular disease in the UK.
AB  - The potential among patients with CHD and individuals at high risk of developing CVD in the UK to achieve the JBS2 lifestyle and risk factor targets is considerable. CVD prevention needs a comprehensive multidisciplinary approach, addressing all aspects of lifestyle and risk factor management. The challenge is to engage and motivate cardiologists, physicians and other health professionals to routinely practice high quality preventive cardiology in a healthcare system which must invest in prevention.

UI  - 22580538
TI  - Influence of atorvastatin on serum amyloid A-low density lipoprotein complex in hypercholesterolemic patients.
AB  - The complex of serum amyloid A(SAA) and low-density lipoprotein (LDL), SAA-LDL, is considered a new and unique marker of oxidatively-modified LDL particles, which is associated with atherosclerotic conditions. This study investigated the influence of atorvastatin treatment on circulating SAA-LDL levels among asymptomatic hypercholesterolemic patients. A total of 26 patients (mean age 63 years) received 10 mg/daily atorvastatin during a 12-week treatment period. The levels of LDL cholesterol and SAA-LDL, but not high-sensitivity C-reactive protein and SAA, were significantly reduced after the treatment. Stepwise adjusted regression analyses revealed that changes of SAA-LDL were significantly and positively correlated with those of SAA, while absolute changes were small, which warrants further investigation. The results suggest that atorvastatin may beneficially reduce SAA-LDL, and SAA-LDL may be a sensitive measure for monitoring the efficacy and antioxidant functions of atorvastatin.

UI  - 22569763
TI  - Increased serum liver X receptor ligand oxysterols in patients with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.
AB  - We speculate that serum LXR ligand oxysterol levels (relative to cholesterol) could be surrogate markers of insulin resistance, and that high oxysterol levels in the circulation may play an important role in the development of hepatic and peripheral insulin resistance followed by NAFLD.

UI  - 22567731
TI  - [Achievement of therapeutic target in subjects on statin treatment in clinical practice. Results of the STAR (Statins Target Assessment in Real practice) study].
AB  - The primary aim of the STAR Study (Statins Target Assessment in Real practice) was to determine the LDL-cholesterol reduction and to analyse patient's and therapeutic factors associated to LDL-cholesterol target attainment in newly treated subjects with statins in an unselected population in clinical practice setting. Administrative databases (including pharmaceutical prescriptions and hospital admissions) and laboratory test databases (including LDL-cholesterol values) of five local health units, distributed in Emilia Romagna, Toscana and Umbria, were linked. A retrospective cohort study was conducted and all subjects aged > or =18 years with a first prescription for statins (newly treated subjects) between January 1st, 2007 and June 30th, 2008 were included. All statin prescriptions over a 12 months follow-up period were considered and used to calculate adherence to treatment. Baseline and follow-up LDL-cholesterol, respectively, were defined according to the nearest determination to the first prescription for statins and to the end of the follow-up period. A total of 3.232 subjects was included, 1.516 males (47%) and 1.716 females (53%), with an average age equal to 65.9 +/- 11.3 years. Among included subjects, 22.,6% had a gap to LDL-cholesterol target <10%, 30.0% between 10 and 29%, 20.7% between 30 and 49%, and 26.7% . or =50%. Among those with a gap to target > or =50%, 30-49%, and 10-29%, respectively, LDL-cholesterol target was attained by 7.1%, 41.8%, and 62.% of subjects. LDL-cholesterol target attainment was associated to gap to target, adherence with treatment, and type of statin.

UI  - 22561556
TI  - Evaluation of clinical safety and tolerance of a Lactobacillus reuteri NCIMB 30242 supplement capsule: a randomized control trial.
AB  - A significant number of human clinical trials have reported no adverse effects associated with consumption of Lactobacillus reuteri (L. reuteri). In the present study, the clinical safety and toxicology of oral ingestion of supplement capsules containing L. reuteri NCIMB 30242 was investigated. A randomized group of 131 subjects received a dose of 2.910 CFU L. reuteri NCIMB 30242 capsules (n=67) or placebo capsules (n=64) twice daily for 9 weeks. Clinical chemistry and hematological parameters of safety were analyzed. The frequency, duration and intensity of adverse events (AE)s and clinical significance of safety parameters were recorded for both groups. No clinically significant differences between the probiotic capsule and placebo capsule treated groups were detected in either the blood clinical chemistry or hematology results. The frequency and intensity of AEs was similar in the two groups. These results demonstrate that administration of a twice daily dose of 2.910 CFU was safe and well tolerated in the population evaluated over 9 weeks.

UI  - 22554491
TI  - Cholesterol metabolism differs after statin therapy according to the type of hyperlipemia.
AB  - Primary hyperlipemias show different patterns of response to statins: in PH LDL reduction appears completely "synthesis inhibition" dependent, while in FCH LDL decrease appears to be synthesis dependent, partially limited by absorption increase. Studying cholesterol metabolism before and after hypolipemic therapy might be useful in identifying the best tailored treatment.

UI  - 22531006
TI  - Powdered red yeast rice and plant stanols and sterols to lower cholesterol.
AB  - Elevated low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol is a significant risk factor for cardiovascular disease. It is estimated that 42% of females and 34% of males in the USA have elevated total cholesterol. The current mainstay of lipid-lowering therapy utilizes 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitor (i.e., statin) medications that lower total cholesterol and LDL cholesterol by an average of 20% and 28%, respectively. However, due to the significant side effects of statin medications, many patients seek alternative therapies to help manage their hypercholesterolemia. Red yeast rice (Monascus purpureus) has been used as a food and as an herbal medication in China for centuries. Phytosterols are foods that are similar in structure and function to animal cholesterol. Both of these compounds have been shown in clinical studies to significantly lower LDL cholesterol. We report on a case series of 18 patients with hypercholesterolemia despite therapeutic lifestyle change through diet and exercise who took a proprietary product combining red yeast rice and phytosterols as a powdered shake in an effort to improve their cholesterol indices. Statistically significant reduction (p < .05) in the following mean variables was seen: total cholesterol 19% (46 mg/dL) and LDL 33% (53 mg/dL) after 6 weeks using the blend. There was no significant difference in body mass index (BMI), triglyceride, high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol levels, or systolic and diastolic blood pressure over the same period. This magnitude of reduction in LDL cholesterol is significantly greater than the 28% reduction observed in the 1999 Journal of the American Medical Association (JAMA) meta-analysis on the average effectiveness of statin medications in lowering cholesterol levels. None of the participants in our study reported any muscle pains, and no abnormal liver function tests were seen while taking the product. Though this case series is limited by small sample size, study duration, and lack of control group, the product's significant reduction in LDL cholesterol without severe side effects indicates that this product may be a clinically effective and well tolerated alternative treatment to using statin medications to treat hypercholesterolemia.

UI  - 22528131
TI  - Lipid apheresis: oxidative stress, rheology, and vasodilatation.
AB  - In the treatment of homozygous and therapy-resistant hypercholesterolemia, lipid apheresis enables not only low density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol to be lowered by approximately 60%, but also oxidative stress factors to be influenced and adhesion molecules reduced. This was investigated in a group of 12 patients using the heparin-induced extracorporeal LDL precipitation (H.E.L.P.) procedure.A significant lowering of LDL cholesterol and fibrinogen leads to an improvement in rheology and endothelial function, detectable and measurable within approximately 20 h by assessing minimum coronary resistance using positron emission tomography (PET) performed in 35 patients. This effect is detectable even after the first lipid apheresis session (H.E.L.P. procedure), documented in 12 patients.Lipid apheresis appears to be the most effective procedure in the treatment of elevated lipoprotein(a) [Lp(a)]. A chosen group of nine patients with selective elevated Lp(a) illustrated both the influence on endothelial dysfunction, in the shape of sharply increased minimum coronary resistance, and the reduction through lipid apheresis, indicating that Lp(a) seems to exert a similar effect on the vascular wall and vascular function as LDL cholesterol.

UI  - 22527287
TI  - LDL-cholesterol-lowering effect of a dietary supplement with plant extracts in subjects with moderate hypercholesterolemia.
AB  - Daily consumption of this new DS decreased LDL-cholesterol and TC and is therefore an interesting, convenient aid in managing mild to moderate hypercholesterolemia.

UI  - 22519696
TI  - Exploring the question-behaviour effect: randomized controlled trial of motivational and question-behaviour interventions.
AB  - What is already known on this subject? Research has indicated that merely asking questions about a behaviour may be sufficient to produce changes in that or related behaviours (referred to as the question-behaviour effect; QBE). Previous studies have suggested that the QBE may be moderated by the individual's motivation to change the behaviour, i.e., the QBE will only produce increases in the behaviour among those with strong motivation to perform the behaviour. However, no study has directly tested this prediction by manipulating motivation and examining impacts on the QBE. What does this study add? The present study tested the individual and combined effects of a motivational and a QBE intervention in a fully crossed design using a randomized controlled trial (RCT) and showed that: a combined intervention significantly increased behaviour. effect partially mediated by cognitions.

UI  - 22507979
TI  - Mipomersen, an apolipoprotein B synthesis inhibitor, lowers low-density lipoprotein cholesterol in high-risk statin-intolerant patients: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT00707746.

UI  - 22507619
TI  - Association and interaction between dietary pattern and VEGF receptor-2 (VEGFR2) gene polymorphisms on blood lipids in Chinese Malaysian and Japanese adults.
AB  - The association and interaction of dietary patterns and VEGFR2 gene polymorphisms on blood lipids differ between Chinese Malaysian and Japanese subjects by either decreasing or increasing the risk of cardiovascular disease.

UI  - 22503625
TI  - [Efficacy of lipid lowering agents in functional foods].
AB  - 

UI  - 22502765
TI  - Effects of clinical and laboratory variables at admission and of in-hospital treatment with cardiovascular drugs on short term prognosis of ischemic stroke. The GIFA study.
AB  - Our study suggests that if a patient with acute ischemic stroke has higher SBP at admission, higher total cholesterol plasma levels, a lower Charlson index and is treated with ACE-inhibitors, calcium channel blockers and antiplatelet drugs, the short term outcome is better in terms of in-hospital mortality and functional indicators such as cognitive and functional performance at discharge.

UI  - 22495111
TI  - Detection and treatment of hypercholesterolemia in primary health care. Results of the POLKARD program of the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Poland.
AB  - PCVDP is an effective tool to identify subjects with hypercholesterolemia but has no effect on the rate of achieving the recommended treatment targets.

UI  - 22484031
TI  - Rosuvastatin improves pulse wave reflection by restoring endothelial function.
AB  - One of the major indicators of intact endothelial function is basal nitric oxide (NO) activity. Further, it seems to be likely that statin therapy exerts beneficial effects on vascular function, at least in part via an improvement of NO bioavailability. In the present double-blind crossover study 29 hypercholesterolemic patients were randomly assigned to receive rosuvastatin and placebo for 42days. Pulse wave analysis was assessed after 30min of rest (baseline) and after infusion of N(G)-monomethyl-l-arginine (l-NMMA) at the end of 42days treatment period. The magnitude of the increase in central augmentation index (cAIx) in response to inhibition of NO synthase (NOS) by l-NMMA is indicative of basal NO activity. CAIx was significantly lower (18.310 versus 21.912%, p=0.027) with rosuvastatin compared to placebo. There was no increment of cAIx in response to l-NMMA in placebo group. In contrast, cAIx increased significantly in response to l-NMMA (20.511 versus 25.710mm Hg, p=0.001) in rosuvastatin group. The percentage of increase of cAIx tended to be more pronounced after treatment with rosuvastatin compared to placebo (53.792 versus 14.136%, p=0.087). Pulse pressure amplification (PPA) improved (1.310.2 versus 1.260.2%, p=0.016) after rosuvastatin compared to placebo. Regression analyses revealed that both LDL-cholesterol and CRP-levels are independent determinants of basal NO activity improvement, which itself is an independent determinant of vascular function, expressed by an improvement of pulse wave reflection and PPA. In this placebo controlled study, treatment with rosuvastatin improved vascular and endothelial function. Determinants for improved NO production in patients with hypercholesterolemia were the achieved levels of LDL-cholesterol and CRP. Overall, in patients without CV disease, rosuvastatin exerted beneficially effect on vascular dysfunction, one of the earliest manifestation of atherosclerosis.

UI  - 22463922
TI  - Safety and efficacy of a monoclonal antibody to proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 serine protease, SAR236553/REGN727, in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia receiving ongoing stable atorvastatin therapy.
AB  - When added to atorvastatin, PCSK9 inhibition with SAR236553 further reduces LDL-C by 40% to 72%. These additional reductions are both dose- and dosing frequency-dependent. (Efficacy and Safety Evaluation of SAR236553 [REGN727] in Patients With Primary Hypercholesterolemia and LDL-cholesterol on Stable Atorvastatin Therapy; NCT01288443).

UI  - 22388824
TI  - [LDL-apheresis in Sardinia, Italy].
AB  - A steady increase in mean serum cholesterol levels has been observed in the Sardinian population over the past three decades, probably related to modifications in the diet such as the introduction of fast food; however, the mean serum values are still lowest compared with the other Italian regions. These data clearly contrast with the presence in our area of five LDL-apheresis centers where, in 20 years of activity, over 16,000 treatments were performed in 60 patients, accounting for 30% of LDL-apheresis-treated patients in Italy. The contrast is even more surprising when one considers that Sardinia has a population of only 1.6 million, i.e., 2.8% of the Italian population. A recessive form of familial hypercholesterolemia, called ARH, was recently discovered and studied in the Sardinian population. It has a prevalence of about 1:38,000- 40,000 for homozygous and double heterozygous subjects, who show clinical features similar to those of classical homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia, a disease characterized by autosomal dominant transmission.

UI  - 22438308
TI  - Accuracy of measures of medication adherence in a cholesterol-lowering regimen.
AB  - This study examined the concordance between multiple measures of adherence, as well as sensitivity to detection of poor adherers, specificity, and predictive validity using a daily cholesterol-lowering regimen. Participants (N = 180) aged 24 to 60 years participated in an adherence ancillary study in a clinical trial. Males constituted 53.9% of this well-educated, community sample. Data on adherence were collected over a 6-month period, using electronic monitoring, self-report, specific recall, and pill counts. Electronically monitored (odds ratio [OR] = 5.348) and Shea self-report (OR = 2.678) predicted cholesterol lowering. Days (78.9%) and intervals (84.2%) adherent and the Shea (73.7%) were sensitive to the detection of poor adherers. Moderate associations were found between measures of the same type. Low correlations were found otherwise. The electronic monitor was the most accurate and informative measure. The Shea self-report was the most accurate brief, global estimate of adherence. Other measures were not associated with clinical outcome or sensitive to poor adherence.

UI  - 22435370
TI  - Effect of a monoclonal antibody to PCSK9 on LDL cholesterol.
AB  - In three phase 1 trials, a monoclonal antibody to PCSK9 significantly reduced LDL cholesterol levels in healthy volunteers and in subjects with familial or nonfamilial hypercholesterolemia. (Funded by Regeneron Pharmaceuticals and Sanofi; ClinicalTrials.gov numbers, NCT01026597, NCT01074372, and NCT01161082.).

UI  - 22425689
TI  - Evaluation of safety and tolerance of microencapsulated Lactobacillus reuteri NCIMB 30242 in a yogurt formulation: a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind study.
AB  - Probiotic organisms have shown promise in treating diseases. Previously, we have reported on the efficacy of microencapsulated Lactobacillus reuteri NCIMB 30242 in a yogurt formulation at lowering serum cholesterol levels in otherwise healthy hypercholesterolemic adults. This study investigates the safety and toxicology of oral ingestion of microencapsulated L. reuteri NCIMB 30242 in a yogurt formulation. A randomized group of 120 subjects received a dose of 5  10(10) CFU microencapsulated L. reuteri NCIMB 30242 in yogurt (n=59) or placebo yogurt (n=61) twice/day for 6 weeks. Clinical chemistry and hematological parameters of safety were analyzed. Fecal samples were collected at these time points for the analysis of deconjugated bile acids. The frequency, duration and intensity of adverse events (AEs) and clinical significance of safety parameters were recorded for both groups. No clinically significant differences between the probiotic yogurt and placebo yogurt treated groups were detected in either the blood clinical chemistry or hematology results and there was no significant increase in fecal deconjugated bile acids (P>0.05) between treated and control groups. The frequency and intensity of AEs was similar in the two groups. These results demonstrate the safe use of this formulation in food.

UI  - 22424458
TI  - Drinking deep seawater decreases serum total and low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol in hypercholesterolemic subjects.
AB  - Drinking deep seawater (DSW) with high levels of magnesium (Mg) decreased serum lipids in animal studies. Therefore the effects of drinking DSW on blood lipids and its antioxidant capacity in hypercholesterolemic subjects were investigated. DSW was first prepared by a process of filtration and reverse osmosis, and then the concentrated DSW with high levels of Mg was diluted as drinking DSW. Forty-two hypercholesterolemic volunteers were randomly divided into three groups: reverse osmotic (RO) water, DSW (Mg: 395mg/L, hardness 1410ppm), and magnesium-chloride fortified (MCF) water (Mg: 386mg/L, hardness 1430ppm). The subjects drank 1050mL of water daily for 6 weeks, and blood samples were collected and analyzed on weeks 0, 3, and 6. Drinking DSW caused a decrease in blood total cholesterol levels and this effect was progressively enhanced with time. Serum low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (LDL-C) was also decreased by DSW. Further, total cholesterol levels of subjects in the DSW group were significantly lower than those in the MCF water or RO water groups. Compared with week 0, the DSW group had higher blood Mg level on weeks 3 and 6, but the Mg levels were within the normal range in all three groups. DSW consumption also lowered thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS) values in serum. In conclusion, DSW was apparently effective in reducing blood total cholesterol and LDL-C, and also in decreasing lipid peroxidation in hypercholesterolemic subjects.

UI  - 22398753
TI  - A spread containing bioactive milk peptides Ile-Pro-Pro and Val-Pro-Pro, and plant sterols has antihypertensive and cholesterol-lowering effects.
AB  - Lifestyle intervention is recommended as the primary treatment for mild hypertension and hypercholesterolemia. We studied the effects of a spread containing bioactive milk peptides IPP and VPP, as well as plant sterols, on cardiovascular risk factors in 104 hypertensive, hypercholesterolemic subjects in a randomised, placebo-controlled double-blind intervention. Middle-aged subjects consumed 20 g day of a spread containing 4.2 mg of IPP and VPP as well as 2 g of plant sterols for 10 weeks after a 2 week run-in period. Blood pressure was measured at home 3 times a week. Office blood pressure and 24 h ambulatory blood pressure measurements were performed at the end of the run-in and intervention periods. Blood samples were analysed for serum lipids, plasma glucose and inflammation markers. A significant decrease (-4.1 mmHg vs. -0.5 mmHg, p = 0.007) in systolic blood pressure was seen in the active group, compared to placebo at home measurements. Office blood pressure and 24 h nighttime or daytime ambulatory systolic or diastolic pressure did not differ between the groups. Total (-0.16 vs. 0.25 mmol l, p = 0.005) and LDL cholesterol (-0.16 vs. 0.18 mmol l, p = 0.006) decreased significantly in the active group compared to the placebo. No significant differences between groups were seen for plasma glucose or inflammation markers. The results thus suggest that milk peptides IPP and VPP and plant sterols, in a low-fat spread matrix, produce a clinically significant reduction in systolic blood pressure as well as serum total and LDL cholesterol without adverse effects. Functional foods that affect 2 major risk factors offer a safe and convenient way to reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease by supporting lifestyle intervention.

UI  - 22378727
TI  - Serum lipids, plant sterols, and cholesterol kinetic responses to plant sterol supplementation in phytosterolemia heterozygotes and control individuals.
AB  - These data suggest that heterozygosity for the ABCG8 S107X mutation does not influence the action of dietary PS on circulating cholesterol concentrations but may affect sterol absorption.

UI  - 22367427
TI  - N-3 fatty acid supplementation to routine statin treatment inhibits platelet function, decreases patients' daytime blood pressure, and improves inflammatory status.
AB  - In hypercholesterolemic patients, combination of statins and N-3 fatty acid inhibits platelet aggregation, alters inflammatory status, and positively affects daytime blood pressure. Close long-term follow-up might reveal additional beneficial effects of N-3 fatty acids in this patient population.

UI  - 22363057
TI  - Endovascular therapy of 623 patients with anterior circulation stroke.
AB  - Several independent predictors for outcome and complications were identified. Unlike in intravenous thrombolysis trials, time to treatment was a predictor of outcome only when collaterals were excluded from the model, indicating the important role of collaterals for the time window.

UI  - 22356933
TI  - Effect of the consumption of a new symbiotic shake on glycemia and cholesterol levels in elderly people with type 2 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT00123456.

UI  - 22353616
TI  - Nitric oxide production and endothelium-dependent vasorelaxation ameliorated by N1-methylnicotinamide in human blood vessels.
AB  - N(1)-methylnicotinamide (MNA(+)) has until recently been thought to be a biologically inactive product of nicotinamide metabolism in the pyridine nucleotides pathway. However, the latest observations imply that MNA(+) may exert antithrombotic and anti-inflammatory effects through direct action on the endothelium. We examined both in vivo and in vitro whether the compound might induce vasorelaxation in human blood vessels through the improvement of nitric oxide (NO) bioavailability and a reduction of oxidative stress mediated by endothelial NO synthase (eNOS) function. MNA(+) treatment (100 mg/m(2) orally) in healthy normocholesterolemic and hypercholesterolemic subjects increased the l-arginine (l-NMMA)-inhibitable flow-mediated dilation (FMD) of brachial artery responses that also positively correlated with MNA(+) plasma concentrations (r=0.73 for normocholesterolemics and r=0.78 for hypercholesterolemics; P<0.0001). MNA(+) increased FMD at the same concentration range at which it enhanced NO release from cultured human endothelial cells after stimulation with either the receptor-dependent (acetylcholine) or the receptor-independent endothelial NO synthase agonists (calcium ionophore A23187). MNA(+) restored the endothelial NO synthase agonist-stimulated NO release after the exposure of the cells to oxidized low-density lipoprotein. This effect was also associated with the normalization of the [NO]/[superoxide] balance in the endothelial cells. Taken together, the increased NO bioavailability in the endothelium contributes to the vasorelaxating properties of MNA(+). Targeting eNOS with MNA(+) might be therapeutically relevant for functional disorders of the endothelium, such as hypercholesterolemia and atherosclerosis.

UI  - 22345687
TI  - Pitavastatin demonstrates long-term efficacy, safety and tolerability in elderly patients with primary hypercholesterolaemia or combined (mixed) dyslipidaemia.
AB  - Long-term pitavastatin treatment (2 and 4 mg) is effective in lowering LDL-C levels and has a good safety and tolerability profile in elderly patients.

UI  - 22345126
TI  - Vascular effects and safety of dalcetrapib in patients with or at risk of coronary heart disease: the dal-VESSEL randomized clinical trial.
AB  - The dal-VESSEL trial has established the tolerability and safety of CETP-inhibition with dalcetrapib in patients with or at risk of CHD. Dalcetrapib reduced CETP activity and increased HDL-C levels without affecting NO-dependent endothelial function, blood pressure, or markers of inflammation and oxidative stress. The dal-OUTCOMES trial (NCT00658515) will show whether dalcetrapib improves outcomes in spite of a lack of effect on endothelial function.

UI  - 22343194
TI  - Influence of achieved low-density lipoprotein cholesterol level with atorvastatin therapy on stabilization of coronary plaques: sub-analysis of the TWINS study.
AB  - Adequate reduction of LDL-C is important for the stabilization of coronary plaques.

UI  - 22341595
TI  - High serum total cholesterol levels is a risk factor of ischemic stroke for general Japanese population: the JPHC study.
AB  - High serum total cholesterol is a risk factor of ischemic stroke, specifically large-artery occlusive infarction for Japanese men.

UI  - 22338904
TI  - [Randomized head-to-head comparison of pitavastatin, atorvastatin, and rosuvastatin for safety and efficacy (quantity and quality of LDL): -- the PATROL trial].
AB  - 

UI  - 22301884
TI  - Antisense inhibition of apoB synthesis with mipomersen reduces plasma apoC-III and apoC-III-containing lipoproteins.
AB  - Mipomersen, an antisense oligonucleotide that reduces hepatic production of apoB, has been shown in phase 2 studies to decrease plasma apoB, LDL cholesterol (LDL-C), and triglycerides. ApoC-III inhibits VLDL and LDL clearance, and it stimulates inflammatory responses in vascular cells. Concentrations of VLDL or LDL with apoC-III independently predict cardiovascular disease. We performed an exploratory posthoc analysis on a subset of hypercholesterolemic subjects obtained from a randomized controlled dose-ranging phase 2 study of mipomersen receiving 100, 200, or 300 mg/wk, or placebo for 13 wk (n = 8 each). ApoC-III-containing lipoproteins were isolated by immuno-affinity chromatography and ultracentrifugation. Mipomersen 200 and 300 mg/wk reduced total apoC-III from baseline by 6 mg/dl (38-42%) compared with placebo group (P < 0.01), and it reduced apoC-III in both apoB lipoproteins and HDL. Mipomersen 100, 200, and 300 mg doses reduced apoB concentration of LDL with apoC-III (27%, 38%, and 46%; P < 0.05). Mipomersen reduced apoC-III concentration in HDL. The drug had no effect on apoE concentration in total plasma and in apoB lipoproteins. In summary, antisense inhibition of apoB synthesis reduced plasma concentrations of apoC-III and apoC-III-containing lipoproteins. Lower concentrations of apoC-III and LDL with apoC-III are associated with reduced risk of coronary heart disease (CHD) in epidemiologic studies independent of traditional risk factors.

UI  - 22297387
TI  - Impact of efavirenz on intestinal metabolism and transport: insights from an interaction study with ezetimibe in healthy volunteers.
AB  - Hypercholesterolemia frequently occurs in patients treated with efavirenz who cannot be treated adequately with statins because of drug interactions. These patients may benefit from cholesterol-lowering therapy with ezetimibe. This study determined the influence of single-dose and multiple-dose efavirenz (400 mg/day for 9 days) on the pharmacokinetics and sterol-lowering of ezetimibe (10 mg) in 12 healthy subjects. In addition, the influence of efavirenz on genome-wide intestinal expression and in vitro function of ABCB1, ABCC2, UGT1A1, and OATP1B1 was studied. Efavirenz (multiple dose) had no influence on the pharmacokinetics and lipid-lowering functions of ezetimibe. Intestinal expression of enzymes and transporters (e.g., ABCB1, ABCC2, and UGT1A1) was not affected by chronic efavirenz. Efavirenz (single dose) slightly increased ezetimibe absorption and markedly decreased exposure to ezetimibe-glucuronide (single dose and multiple dose), which may be explained by inhibition of UGT1A1 and ABCB1 (in vitro data). Ezetimibe had no effect on the disposition of efavirenz. Consequently, ezetimibe may be a safe and efficient therapeutic option in patients with HIV infection.

UI  - 22295727
TI  - Lipid-lowering treatment in hypercholesterolemic patients: the CEPHEUS Thailand survey.
AB  - LDL goal attainment was not achieved in a high proportion of Thai patients especially in those who had high to very high risk for developing cardiovascular disease. Despite availability of well-established treatment guideline and efficacious lipid lowering drugs, many patients still miss the opportunity to effectively control their lipid profile.

UI  - 22293584
TI  - Administration of highly purified eicosapentaenoic acid to statin-treated diabetic patients further improves vascular function.
AB  - We prospectively examined the additional effects of highly purified eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) particularly on the vascular function of diabetic patients with hypercholesterolemia receiving statin therapy. We enrolled 28 patients with type 2 diabetes complicated by dyslipidemia who had been treated with statins for at least one year. The patients were randomly assigned to 2 groups: administration of statin alone (group S: n = 13) and addition of EPA to the current statin therapy (group SE: n = 15). The highly purified EPA was administered at a dose of 1,800 mg/day for 6 months. To evaluate vascular function, the duration of reactive hyperemia (DRH), which is the time required for forearm blood flow to return to the basal level after inducing reactive hyperemia, was measured using strain gauge plethysmography. There were no significant differences in the clinical background factors between the 2 groups. Low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), and non-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels significantly decreased after 6 months only in group SE. Compared with the baseline data, no significant change in DRH was observed after 6 months in group S. By contrast, DRH was significantly prolonged after 6 months in group SE, indicating that the addition of highly purified EPA improved vascular function. Our results showed that in patients with type 2 diabetes and receiving statin therapy whose LDL-C level was less than 100 mg/dL, the addition of highly purified EPA for 6 months significantly improved vascular function.

UI  - 22293030
TI  - Ezetimibe/simvastatin 10/40 mg versus atorvastatin 40 mg in high cardiovascular risk patients with primary hypercholesterolemia: a randomized, double-blind, active-controlled, multicenter study.
AB  - Registered at clinicaltrials.gov: NCT00782184.

UI  - 22278741
TI  - Oxidative stress improvement is associated with increased levels of taurine in CKD patients undergoing lipid-lowering therapy.
AB  - Lipid-lowering therapy has been reported to reduce several oxidative stress (OS) markers in hypercholesterolemia. Since OS is frequently associated with renal dysfunction, we aimed to investigate the effect of hypolipidemic drugs on oxidative stress and plasma taurine (Tau), a sulfur amino acid with a marked antioxidant effect, in chronic kidney disease (CKD). We enrolled 30 CKD randomized to receive three different hypolipidemic regimens for 12 months: simvastatin alone (40 mg/day) or ezetimibe/simvastatin combined therapy (10/20 or 10/40 mg/day). Low molecular weight (LMW) thiols including homocysteine, cysteine, cysteinylglycine, glutathione, and glutamylcysteine in their reduced and total form and oxidative stress indices as malondialdehyde (MDA) and allantoin/uric acid (All/UA) ratio were also evaluated. Tau concentration significantly increased throughout the therapy. The rise of taurine was more striking for the group with the concomitant administration of ezetimibe/simvastatin 10/40 mg/day (+31.6% after 1 year of therapy). A significant decrease of both MDA and All/UA ratio was observed during therapy for all patients (-19% for both MDA and All/UA ratio) with a more pronounced effect in patients treated with ezetimibe/simvastatin 10/40 mg/day (-26% for MDA and -28% for All/UA ratio). Besides, an increase of thiols reduced forms was found (+20.7% of LMW thiols redox status) with a greater effect in subjects treated with ezetimibe/simvastatin 10/40 mg/day (+24.7%). Moreover, we demonstrated that oxidative stress improvement during therapy was correlated with increased taurine levels. We hypothesize that taurine may be responsible for the oxidative stress improvement observed during lipid-lowering treatment through the reduction of superoxide anion production at the respiratory chain activity level.

UI  - 22264573
TI  - The differential effect of statins on oxidative stress and endothelial function: atorvastatin versus pravastatin.
AB  - In hyperlipidemic subjects with metabolic syndrome, atorvastatin is associated with a greater reduction in lipid markers of oxidation compared with pravastatin. Whether these effects are responsible for the outcome differences in trials comparing these agents needs further investigation.

UI  - 22256472
TI  - Reduction of LDL-cholesterol in mildly hypercholesterolemic Thais with plant stanol ester-fortified soy milk.
AB  - Consumption of stanol-ester-containing soymilk for six weeks significantly reduced LDL-cholesterol in mildly hypercholesterolemic Thais. No adverse effect on sex hormones was observed However, stanol-ester consumers are at risk of fat-soluble-vitamin deficiencies if the vitamin intake from foods is inadequate.

UI  - 22241259
TI  - [Effect of sacha inchi oil (plukenetia volbilis l) on the lipid profile of patients with hyperlipoproteinemia].
AB  - We performed a pilot, experimental, open study in order to know the effect, effective dosage and secondary effects of sacha inchis (Plukenetia Huallabamba) [corrected] oil on the lipid profiles of patients with hypercholesterolemia. We included 24 patients of ages 35 to 75, to whom we measured total cholesterol (TC), HDL, triglycerides (Tg), glucose (G), non-esterified fatty acids (NEFA) and insulin (I) levels in blood, then we randomized them to receive sacha inchi oil orally 5 ml or 10 ml of a suspension of sacha inchi oil (2gr/5ml) for four months. The oil intake produced a decrease in the mean values of TC, and NEFA, and a rise in HDL in both subgroups. The subgroup receiving 10 ml was associated to an increase in the insulin levels. Sacha inchi oil appears to have beneficial effects on the lipid profile of patients with dyslipidemia, but their efficacy and security should be evaluated in randomized clinical trials.

UI  - 22240263
TI  - Effects of bile-acid-binding resin (colestimide) on blood glucose and visceral fat in Japanese patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and hypercholesterolemia: an open-label, randomized, case-control, crossover study.
AB  - Colestimide holds promise not only for the treatment of hypercholesterolemia but also for the possible improvement of T2D and visceral fat obesity.

UI  - 22221517
TI  - Sex differences in the impact of the Mediterranean diet on cardiovascular risk profile.
AB  - The traditional Mediterranean diet (MedDiet) is now widely recommended in the prevention of CVD. However, it is not known whether the MedDiet has the same beneficial cardiovascular effects in women and in men. The objective of the present study was to investigate sex-related differences with regard to changes in cardiometabolic variables in response to a 4-week isoenergetic MedDiet. Participants were thirty-eight men and thirty-two premenopausal women aged between 25 and 50 years who had slightly elevated LDL-cholesterol (LDL-C) concentrations (34-49 mmol/l) or total cholesterol:HDL-cholesterol ratio  50. A 4-week run-in period preceded the MedDiet in order to control the inter- and intra-individual variability. Cardiometabolic variables were measured before and after the MedDiet. Total cholesterol, LDL-C, apoB and apoA-1 plasma concentrations as well as diastolic blood pressure decreased (P < 005) in both men and women (respectively, 10, 10, 10, 6 and 5% for men and 6, 7, 9, 4 and 4% for women). ApoA-2 concentrations and insulin concentrations 2 h after the oral administration of 75 g of glucose demonstrated sex  time interactions (respectively, P = 005 and P = 003) and only men experienced a decrease for these variables (respectively, 8 and 25%). In conclusion, consuming a MedDiet led to significant changes in plasma lipid profile in both men and women, while only men had significant improvements in insulin homeostasis. These results support the importance of investigating sex-related differences in response to diet in order to perhaps further individualise dietary guidelines in the prevention of CVD and type 2 diabetes.

UI  - 22206792
TI  - Three different LDL apheresis columns efficiently and equally reduce lipoprotein(a) concentrations in patients with familial hypercholesterolemia and small apolipoprotein(a) particles.
AB  - Three different LDL apheresis columns reduced Lp(a) efficiently with preserved ratio between apo(a) isoforms.

UI  - 22204857
TI  - Differential metabolic effects of rosuvastatin and pravastatin in hypercholesterolemic patients.
AB  - While significantly reducing lipoprotein profiles, rosuvastatin therapy had unwanted metabolic effects in hypercholesterolemic patients when compared with pravastatin therapy, that may be clinically relevant in patients prone to metabolic diseases.

UI  - 22198821
TI  - Anti-hyperglycemic and anti-hypercholesterolemic effects of Aloe vera leaf gel in hyperlipidemic type 2 diabetic patients: a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled clinical trial.
AB  - Diabetes mellitus type 2 with dyslipidemia is a common disease. Previous studies suggest that aloe (Aloe vera L.) leaf gel may positively affect the blood glucose and lipid levels in dyslipidemic type 2 diabetic patients. Thus, in this randomized double-blind placebo-controlled clinical trial with hyperlipidemic (hypercholesterolemic and/or hypertriglyceridemic) type 2 diabetic patients aged 40 to 60 years not using other anti-hyperlipidemic agents and resistant to daily intake of two 5 mg glyburide tablets and two 500 mg metformin tablets, the efficacy and safety of taking aloe gel (one 300 mg capsule every 12 hours for 2 months) combined with the aforementioned drugs in treatment of 30 patients were evaluated and compared with the placebo group (n = 30). The aloe gel lowered the fasting blood glucose, HbA1c, total cholesterol, and LDL levels significantly (p = 0.036, p = 0.036, p = 0.006, and p = 0.004, respectively) without any significant effects on the other blood lipid levels and liver/kidney function tests (p > 0.05) compared with the placebo at the endpoint. No adverse effects were reported. The results suggest that aloe gel may be a safe anti-hyperglycemic and anti-hypercholesterolemic agent for hyperlipidemic type 2 diabetic patients.

UI  - 22192511
TI  - KIF6, LPA, TAS2R50, and VAMP8 genetic variation, low density lipoprotein cholesterol lowering response to pravastatin, and heart disease risk reduction in the elderly.
AB  - Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) at the KIF6 (kinesin like protein 6, rs20455 or 719Arg), LPA (lipoprotein(a), rs3798220), TAS2R50 (taste receptor type 2, member 50, rs1376251) and VAMP8 (vesicle-associated membrane protein 8, rs1010) have previously been associated with low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) lowering response to statins, coronary heart disease (CHD) at baseline, or CHD events on trial. We examined SNPs at the KIF6 (rs20455 or 719Arg), LPA (rs3798220), TAS2R50 (rs1376251) and VAMP8 (rs1010) in 5,411 participants in PROSPER (PROspective Study of Pravastatin in the Elderly at Risk) (mean age 75.3 years), who had been randomized to pravastatin 40 mg/day or placebo and were followed for a mean of 3.2 years. No SNP was related to vascular disease at baseline. Only the KIF6 SNP was related to LDL-C lowering with homozygous Arg 719 subjects being significantly less responsive than other groups (p=0.025, -34.2 vs. -36.1%). With regard to the primary CHD endpoint on trial (fatal or non-fatal myocardial infarction or stroke), we observed a significant relationship for KIF6 719Arg homozygotes (p=0.03, hazards ratio 0.47, 12.8% of the population) in women on pravastatin only, and for TAS2R50 for the AA genotype (p=0.03, hazards ratio 1.76, 8.9% of the population), also only in women on pravastatin. Our data indicate that the assessment of KIF6 rs20455 and TAS2R50 rs1376251 genotypes are not useful for predicting statin induced cardiovascular risk reduction in men, but do predict CHD risk reduction in women in this elderly population. However, these differences are no longer significant after correction for multiple comparisons, and we do not recommend the assessment of any of these SNPs in clinical practice.

UI  - 22190137
TI  - Cholesterol-lowering properties of different pectin types in mildly hyper-cholesterolemic men and women.
AB  - Pectin source and type (DE and MW) affect cholesterol lowering. The EFSA pectin cholesterol-lowering claim should require a minimum level of characterization, including DE and MW.

UI  - 22189199
TI  - Genetic variation at the SLCO1B1 gene locus and low density lipoprotein cholesterol lowering response to pravastatin in the elderly.
AB  - Our goal was to determine whether genetic variation at genes affecting statin metabolism or targets of statin therapy would influence low density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol lowering with pravastatin, baseline heart disease, or cardiac endpoints on trial. We examined associations of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) at the liver X receptor alpha (LXRA, rs12221497), and the solute carrier organic anion transporter (SLCO1B1, rs4149056 and rs2306283) gene loci with these variables. We studied 5411 participants in PROSPER (PROspective Study of Pravastatin in the Elderly at Risk) (mean age 75.3 years), who had been randomized to pravastatin 40 mg/day or placebo and were followed for a mean of 3.2 years. No relationships between genetic variation at the LXRA gene locus with statin induced LDL lowering response or other parameters were noted. Both the SLCO1B1 rs4149056 (valine for alanine at 174) and the rs2306283 (asparagine for aspartic acid at 130) SNPs affect the amino acid sequence of the SLCO1B1 gene product. No effect of the rs2306283 SNP on any of the variables was noted. However the presence of the rs4149056 SNP was associated with significantly less LDL cholesterol lowering response to pravastatin (wildtype, 71.5% of the population, -37.0%; heterozygotes, 25.8% of the population, -36.0%; and homozygotes, 2.7% of the population, -31.8%, p=0.003 at 6 months, and p=0.022 at 12 months). Our data indicate that the presence of the rs4149056 non-synonymous SNP at the SLCO1B1 gene locus can significantly decrease the pravastatin induced LDL cholesterol lowering response.

UI  - 22186099
TI  - Relationship between coronary artery disease and non-HDL-C, and effect of highly purified EPA on the risk of coronary artery disease in hypercholesterolemic patients treated with statins: sub-analysis of the Japan EPA Lipid Intervention Study (JELIS).
AB  - We reconfirmed non-HDL-C as a predictor of the risk for CAD and a residual risk marker of CAD after LDL-C-lowering therapy. EPA was useful to reduce the occurrence of CAD in patients who did not achieve the goals for LDL-C and/or non-HDL-C.

UI  - 22185846
TI  - [Therapeutic use Hibiscus sabadariffa extract in the treatment of hypercholesterolemia. A randomized clinical trial].
AB  - the treatments, with 10 and 20 mg of anthocyanins reduce triglycerides. The control treatment showed the greatest effect on lowering total cholesterol and fractions compared to experimental treatments.

UI  - 22182482
TI  - Effect of altering dietary n-6:n-3 PUFA ratio on cardiovascular risk measures in patients treated with statins: a pilot study.
AB  - Increasing dietary n-3 PUFA decreases the risk of CHD. Since n-6 PUFA compete with n-3 PUFA for common metabolic enzymes, the n-6:n-3 ratio intake rather than the n-3 PUFA intake levels per se may be critical. We aimed to examine whether altering the n-6:n-3 ratio affects cardiovascular risk factors in hypercholesterolaemic patients on lipid management with statins. Adhering to a randomised, crossover study design, patients on statins (n 11) were placed on one of two dietary interventions (Diet high-ratio (HR) - n-6:n-3=30:1 or Diet low-ratio (LR) - n-6:n-3=17:1) for 4 weeks followed after an 8-week washout period by the alternate diet. Foods enriched with n-3 or n-6 PUFA were delivered to each patient, who were given clear guidance on consumption expectations for the study. Measures of lipid profile, blood pressure and vascular function were determined. Diet LR significantly reduced body weight, LDL-cholesterol, high-sensitivity C-reactive protein, blood pressure and the apoA-1:apoB ratio. While Diet HR trended towards a similar cardioprotective profile, most of the parameters examined did not reach statistical significance. A direct comparison between diets demonstrated no significant superiority of Diet LR over Diet HR. These results suggest that a dietary intervention focused on n-6 and n-3 fatty acids may improve cardiovascular risk factors in patients over and above standard lipid management, but there is no significant advantage of a low n-6:n-3 ratio diet when compared to a high-ratio diet.

UI  - 22180369
TI  - Influence of ezetimibe monotherapy on ischemia-modified albumin levels in hypercholesterolemic patients.
AB  - Ischemia-modified albumin (IMA) is considered to be a novel biochemical marker for ischemic and atherosclerotic conditions. This study aimed to investigate the influence of ezetimibe monotherapy on circulating IMA levels in hypercholesterolemic patients. A total of 31 patients (mean age 65.7 years) received 10 mg of ezetimibe daily during a 12-week treatment period. The levels of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol and IMA were significantly reduced after ezetimibe treatment. The adjusted regression analyses revealed that the changes in the IMA levels were not significantly correlated with those of the other atherosclerotic risk markers, such as body mass index, blood pressure, glucose and lipid panels. The significant reduction of the IMA levels following ezetimibe treatment, which was independent of the reduction of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels, suggests that ezetimibe may improve the oxidative stress burden in hypercholesterolemic patients.

UI  - 22174166
TI  - Assessment of atorvastatin effectiveness on serum PSA level in hypercholesterolemic males.
AB  - The previous large retrospective studies demonstrated that treatment with Statins reduces both the incidence of prostate cancer by 50% and serum Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA) level up to 40%. However the main problem in those studies was the absence of control groups of men with hypercholesterolemia without Statin treatment. We performed a small prospective controlled clinical trial to assess the influence of the treatment with Atorvastatin on serum PSA in men with hypercholesterolemia referred to our educational and treatment center from October 2007 to March 2008. In this study, among the newly diagnosed males with hypercholesterolemia (LDL > 130 mg/dl), 40 patients with LDL more than 190 mg/dl were selected as a case group and were treated with Atorvastatin (20 mg/day). Among the same population and in the same period, another 40 patients with LDL between 130 and 190 mg/dl were selected as first control group and were treated only with low fat diet. Another 40 patients with normal serum cholesterol and without any treatment were selected as second control group. The lipid profile and serum PSA level of patients of all groups were tested at the first and third months after the therapy. After completion of data, the mean serum lipids and PSA level were measured in both visits and compared with each other by paired t-test. Also the mean PSA change in two visits between three groups was compared by ANOVA and Tukey HSD test. There was not any significant difference in mean baseline PSA between hypercholesterolemic and normocholesterolemic patients (P=0.547). In case group, mean PSA and LDL was reduced by 14.1% (P=0.0001) and 30% (P=0.0001) respectively by second visit. In first control group, mean PSA was not changed significantly (P=0.337), whereas mean LDL in this group was reduced by 9.6% (P= 0.0001). Similarly in the second control group mean PSA was not changed significantly (P=0.309) by second visit. In addition, mean change of PSA in case group was compared with first and second control groups that was significantly different (P=0.0001) whereas mean change of PSA between two control groups was not significantly different (P=0.615). The results of this study showed that: 1) Short term treatment with Atorvastatin can reduce serum PSA level, and 2) This reduction is more likely to be due to direct effect and is not related to lowering serum cholesterol levels. Thus, if results of this study are confirmed by large prospective randomized clinical trials with longer follow up period, it will be possible that Atorvastatin could be used in long term as a safe chemoprophylactic agent against prostate cancer in high risk patients.

UI  - 22170364
TI  - Beef in an Optimal Lean Diet study: effects on lipids, lipoproteins, and apolipoproteins.
AB  - Low-SFA, heart-healthy dietary patterns that contain lean beef elicit favorable effects on cardiovascular disease (CVD) lipid and lipoprotein risk factors that are comparable to those elicited by a DASH dietary pattern. These results, in conjunction with the beneficial effects on apolipoprotein CVD risk factors after consumption of the BOLD and BOLD+ diets, which were greater with the BOLD+ diet, provide support for including lean beef in a heart-healthy dietary pattern. This trial was registered at clinicaltrials.gov as NCT00937898.

UI  - 22144669
TI  - Adherence to the mediterranean diet in relation to ischemic stroke nonfatal events in nonhypercholesterolemic and hypercholesterolemic participants: results of a case/case-control study.
AB  - The aim of the present work was to evaluate the association between adherence to the Mediterranean diet and the development of ischemic stroke according to cholesterol levels. During 2009-2010, 500 participants were enrolled; 250 were consecutive patients (77  9 years, 55.6% men) with a first ischemic stroke and 250 population-based, control participants, matched to the patients by age and sex. Sociodemographic, clinical, dietary, and other lifestyle characteristics were measured. Adherence to the Mediterranean diet was assessed by the validated MedDietScore (theoretical range: 0-55). After various adjustments, each 1/55 unit increase in the MedDietScore was associated with 17% lower likelihood of having an ischemic stroke in nonhypercholesterolemic participants (95%CI: 0.72-0.96) and 10% lower likelihood in participants with hypercholesterolemia (95%CI: 0.81-0.99). The present work highlights the cardioprotective benefits from the adoption of the Mediterranean diet, by showing its beneficial effect regarding ischemic stroke development, regardless of the presence of hypercholesterolemia.

UI  - 22129522
TI  - Usefulness of LDL-C-related parameters to predict cardiovascular risk and effect of pravastatin in mild-to-moderate hypercholesterolemia.
AB  - Non-HDL-C and LDL-C/HDL-C have a greater ability to predict CVD risk in mild-to-moderate hypercholesterolemic Japanese individuals than LDL-C, and are more useful to evaluate the effect of pravastatin; however, these parameters should be interpreted independently when assessing CVD risk.

UI  - 22128042
TI  - Gender differences in cholesterol-lowering medication prescribing in peripheral artery disease.
AB  - Among 320 patients with lower extremity peripheral artery disease (PAD) and low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (LDL-C) levels > 70 mg/dl, we determined whether male sex, higher education, and greater self-efficacy for willingness to request therapy from one's physician were associated with increases in LDL-C-lowering medication and achievement of an LDL-C level < 70 mg/dl at 1-year follow-up. Participants were enrolled in a randomized controlled clinical trial to determine whether a telephone counseling intervention can help PAD patients achieve an LDL-C level < 70 mg/dl, compared to usual care and attention control conditions, respectively. Adjusting for age, race, comorbidities, PAD severity, and other covariates, male sex (odds ratio = 3.33, 95% confidence interval = 1.64 to 6.77, p = 0.001) was associated with a higher likelihood of adding cholesterol-lowering medication during follow-up, but was not associated with achieving an LDL-C < 70 mg/dl (odds ratio = 1.09, 95% confidence interval = 0.55 to 2.18). No associations of education level or self-efficacy with study outcomes were identified. In conclusion, male PAD patients with baseline LDL-C levels  70 mg/dl were more likely to intensify LDL-C-lowering medication during 1-year follow-up than female PAD patients. Despite greater increases in LDL-C-lowering medication among female PAD patients, there was no difference in the degree of LDL-C lowering during the study between men and women with PAD.

UI  - 22118569
TI  - Bioactive oat -glucan reduces LDL cholesterol in Caucasians and non-Caucasians.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT00981981.

UI  - 22115874
TI  - Effects on 11-year mortality and morbidity of lowering LDL cholesterol with simvastatin for about 5 years in 20,536 high-risk individuals: a randomised controlled trial.
AB  - UK Medical Research Council, British Heart Foundation, Merck & Co, Roche Vitamins.

UI  - 22113535
TI  - Long-term effects of nutraceuticals (berberine, red yeast rice, policosanol) in elderly hypercholesterolemic patients.
AB  - In this study the authors have demonstrated that combined nutraceuticals significantly reduce cholesterolemia and achieved acceptable plasma LDL-C levels in elderly hypercholesterolemic patients who were previously statin-intolerant. Combined nutraceuticals is also safe and well tolerated in these patients.

UI  - 22111443
TI  - Long-term efficacy and safety of a generic atorvastatin in usual clinical care setting.
AB  - A multicentre study was conducted to assess the long term efficacy and safety of a generic atorvastatin in the treatment of primary hypercholesterolaemia. Eighty five patients who received 10mg or 20 mg of atorvastatin for 8 weeks depending on target cholesterol goal were followed up by their own physicians and had final evaluation at 52 weeks. Reduction in mean low density Lipoprotein (LDL-C) was 36.5%, 37.9% and 32.2% at weeks 4, 8 and 52 respectively. LDL-C target was maintained in 81% and 69% of patients at week 8 and 52 respectively without drug related serious adverse events. Generic atorvastatin is safe and effective in usual clinical care setting.

UI  - 22108444
TI  - The effect of simvastatin on asymmetric dimethylarginine and flow-mediated vasodilation after optimizing the LDL level: a randomized, placebo-controlled study.
AB  - Research of statin influence on asymmetric dimethylarginine (ADMA) and flow-mediated vasodilatation (FMD) reveals controversial results. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of moderate (40mg) and high (80mg) simvastatin doses on the levels of ADMA, total homocysteine (tHcy) and %FMD in patients with newly diagnosed severe hypercholesterolemia, after optimizing the LDL level. The study included 650 patients with severe hypercholesterolemia (total cholesterol7.5mmol/l; LDL4.9mmol/l). The treatment groups were administered 80mg simvastatin over a period of one month. The results indicated a reduction in ADMA and tHcy levels and an increase in %FMD in the treatment groups, compared with the control groups (receiving placebo or 40mg simvastatin). There was a statistically significant correlation between the %FMD changes and the baseline levels of Apo-B, ADMA and tHcy, as well as between the %ADMA changes and %LDL, % apolipoprotein-B and %tHcy-changes in patients on 80mg Simvastatin. A statistical linear regression analysis (in the treatment group) indicated that the baseline ADMA level is the most important statistically significant predictor related to %FMD-changes. A linear regression analysis additionally documented that % apolipoprotein-B-changes is a predictor of %ADMA-changes. In conclusion, in cases with optimized LDL-target levels (patients on 80mg Simvastatin), the baseline level of ADMA appears to be a major modulator of %FMD-changes.

UI  - 22108151
TI  - Achievement of specified low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, non-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol apolipoprotein B, and high-sensitivity C-reactive protein levels with ezetimibe/simvastatin or atorvastatin in metabolic syndrome patients with and without atherosclerotic vascular disease (from the VYMET study).
AB  - More intensive therapy was required for >80% of subjects to achieve LDL-C <100 mg/dL and non-HDL-C <130 mg/dL and for the majority of subjects to achieve lower levels of LDL-C <70 mg/dL, non-HDL-C <100 mg/dL, and/or Apo B <90 mg/dL. The effect of ezetimibe on cardiovascular risk reduction has yet to be established. (Clintrials.gov no: NCT00409773).

UI  - 22102488
TI  - Threshold level of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol for the short-term benefit of statin therapy in the acute phase of myocardial infarction.
AB  - The beneficial effects of statin therapy seem to vanish when LDL-C is below a certain level in AMI patients.

UI  - 22094911
TI  - Effect of intensive lipid-lowering therapy with rosuvastatin on progression of carotid intima-media thickness in Japanese patients: Justification for Atherosclerosis Regression Treatment (JART) study.
AB  - Rosuvastatin significantly slowed progression of carotid IMT at 12 months compared with pravastatin.

UI  - 22094353
TI  - Atorvastatin and hormone therapy effects on APOE mRNA expression in hypercholesterolemic postmenopausal women.
AB  - Menopause is associated with changes in lipid levels resulting in increased risk of atherosclerosis and cardiovascular events. Hormone therapy (HT) and atorvastatin have been used to improve lipid profile in postmenopausal women. Effects of HT, atorvastatin and APOE polymorphisms on serum lipids and APOE and LXRA expression were evaluated in 87 hypercholesterolemic postmenopausal women, randomly selected for treatment with atorvastatin (AT, n=17), estrogen or estrogen plus progestagen (HT, n=34) and estrogen or estrogen plus progestagen associated with atorvastatin (HT+AT, n=36). RNA was extracted from peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) and mRNA expression was measured by TaqMan() PCR. APOE 2/3/4 genotyping was performed using PCR-RFLP. Total cholesterol (TC), LDL-c and apoB were reduced after each treatment (p<0.001). Triglycerides, VLDL-c and apoAI were reduced only after atorvastatin (p<0.05), whereas triglycerides and VLDL-c were increased after HT (p=0.01). HT women had lower reduction on TC, LDL-c and apoB than AT and HT+AT groups (p<0.05). APOE mRNA expression was reduced after atorvastatin treatment (p=0.03). Although LXRA gene expression was not modified by atorvastatin, it was correlated with APOE mRNA before and after treatments. Basal APOE mRNA expression was not influenced by gene polymorphisms, however the reduction on APOE expression was more pronounced in 33 than in 34 carriers. Atorvastatin down-regulates APOE mRNA expression and it is modified by APOE genotypes in PBMC from postmenopausal women.

UI  - 22087585
TI  - Lipid-altering effects of a dietary supplement tablet containing free plant sterols and stanols in men and women with primary hypercholesterolaemia: a randomized, placebo-controlled crossover trial.
AB  - This randomized, placebo-controlled, crossover trial assessed the lipid-altering efficacy of a dietary supplement (tablet form) providing 1.8g/day free (non-esterified) plant sterols and stanols versus placebo for 6 weeks as part of a therapeutic lifestyle changes (TLC) diet in 32 men and women with primary hypercholesterolaemia. MeanSE baseline (end of a 5-week TLC diet lead-in) lipid concentrations (mmol/l) were total cholesterol (TC), 5.880.08; non-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (non-HDL-C), 4.710.09; low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), 4.020.08; HDL-C, 1.170.06 and triglycerides (TGs), 1.510.12. Differences from control in responses (plant sterol/stanol-control) were significant (p<0.05) for LDL-C (-4.9%), non-HDL-C (-3.6%) and TC (-2.8%). HDL-C and TG responses were not significantly different between treatment conditions. These results indicate that 1.8g/day free plant sterols/stanols administered in a tablet produced favourable lipoprotein lipid changes in men and women with hypercholesterolaemia.

UI  - 22077928
TI  - A pilot study to evaluate the effect of soy isolate protein on the serum lipid profile and other potential cardiovascular risk markers in moderately hypercholesterolemic Chinese adults.
AB  - This article examines the effect of soy isolate protein on the serum lipids and other potential cardiovascular risk markers in 90 moderately hypercholesterolemic Chinese adults (64 women and 26 men, aged 25 to 70 years). Fasting blood samples were taken before and after consuming 24 g of protein supplied by soy isolate protein supplement (including 18 g soy protein and 6 g milk protein) or milk protein supplement daily for 8 weeks. Dietary intake was assessed by a 3-day record collected at baseline, week 4, and week 8 of the study. The results indicate that the two kinds of protein can modestly improve serum lipids and markers associated with obesity and inflammation.

UI  - 22067612
TI  - Cholesterol-lowering efficacy of a microencapsulated bile salt hydrolase-active Lactobacillus reuteri NCIMB 30242 yoghurt formulation in hypercholesterolaemic adults.
AB  - Several studies have reported limited or no reduction in serum cholesterol in response to probiotic formulations. Recently, probiotics have shown promise in treating metabolic disease due to improved strain selection and delivery technologies. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the cholesterol-lowering efficacy of a yoghurt formulation containing microencapsulated bile salt hydrolase (BSH)-active Lactobacillus reuteri NCIMB 30242, taken twice per d over 6 weeks, in hypercholesterolaemic adults. A total of 114 subjects completed this double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomised, parallel-arm, multi-centre study. This interventional study included a 2-week washout, 2-week run-in and 6-week treatment period. Subjects were randomised to consume either yoghurts containing microencapsulated L. reuteri NCIMB 30242 or placebo yoghurts. Over the intervention period, subjects consuming yoghurts containing microencapsulated L. reuteri NCIMB 30242 attained significant reductions in LDL-cholesterol (LDL-C) of 892 % (P = 0016), total cholesterol (TC) of 481 % (P = 0031) and non-HDL-cholesterol (HDL-C) of 601 % (P = 0029) over placebo, and a significant absolute change in apoB-100 of - 019 mmol/l (P = 0049). Serum concentrations of TAG and HDL-C were unchanged over the course of the study. Present results show that consumption of microencapsulated BSH-active L. reuteri NCIMB 30242 yoghurt is efficacious and safe for lowering LDL-C, TC, apoB-100 and non-HDL-C in hypercholesterolaemic subjects. The efficacy of microencapsulated BSH-active L. reuteri NCIMB 30242 yoghurts appears to be superior to traditional probiotic therapy and akin to that of other cholesterol-lowering ingredients.

UI  - 22057855
TI  - The effect of bexarotene on atorvastatin pharmacokinetics: results from a phase I trial of bexarotene plus chemotherapy in patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer.
AB  - A drug-drug interaction was seen in this trial with bexarotene co-administration leading to a significant reduction in the AUC of atorvastatin. The likely mechanism for this interaction is through induction of CYP3A4 by bexarotene given the role of this enzyme in the metabolism of atorvastatin. Knowledge of this interaction is important for optimizing lipid management with atorvastatin for patients receiving bexarotene.

UI  - 22032303
TI  - Hypocholesterolaemic effects of lupin protein and pea protein/fibre combinations in moderately hypercholesterolaemic individuals.
AB  - The present study was aimed to evaluate the effect of plant proteins (lupin protein or pea protein) and their combinations with soluble fibres (oat fibre or apple pectin) on plasma total and LDL-cholesterol levels. A randomised, double-blind, parallel group design was followed: after a 4-week run-in period, participants were randomised into seven treatment groups, each consisting of twenty-five participants. Each group consumed two bars containing specific protein/fibre combinations: the reference group consumed casein+cellulose; the second and third groups consumed bars containing lupin or pea proteins+cellulose; the fourth and fifth groups consumed bars containing casein and oat fibre or apple pectin; the sixth group and seventh group received bars containing combinations of pea protein and oat fibre or apple pectin, respectively. Bars containing lupin protein+cellulose ( - 116 mg/l, - 42%), casein+apple pectin ( - 152 mg/l, - 53%), pea protein+oat fibre ( - 135 mg/l, - 47%) or pea protein+apple pectin ( - 168 mg/l, - 64%) resulted in significant reductions of total cholesterol levels (P<005), whereas no cholesterol changes were observed in the subjects consuming the bars containing casein+cellulose, casein+oat fibre or pea protein+cellulose. The present study shows the hypocholesterolaemic activity and potential clinical benefits of consuming lupin protein or combinations of pea protein and a soluble fibre, such as oat fibre or apple pectin.

UI  - 22018049
TI  - Effects of plant sterol esters in skimmed milk and vegetable-fat-enriched milk on serum lipids and non-cholesterol sterols in hypercholesterolaemic subjects: a randomised, placebo-controlled, crossover study.
AB  - Plant sterol (PS)-supplemented foods are recommended to help in lowering serum LDL-cholesterol (LDL-C). Few studies have examined the efficacy of PS-enriched skimmed milk (SM) or semi-SM enriched with vegetable fat (PS-VFM). There is also insufficient information on factors predictive of LDL-C responses to PS. We examined the effects of PS-SM (01 % dairy fat) and PS-VFM (01 % dairy fat plus 15 % vegetable fat) on serum lipids and non-cholesterol sterols in hypercholesterolaemic individuals. In a placebo-controlled, crossover study, forty-three subjects with LDL-C>1300 mg/l were randomly assigned to three 4-week treatment periods: control SM, PS-SM and PS-VFM, with 500 ml milk with or without 34 g PS esters (2 g free PS). Serum concentrations of lipids and non-cholesterol sterols were measured. Compared to control, LDL-C decreased by 80 and 74 % (P < 0015, both) in the PS-SM and PS-VFM periods, respectively. Serum lathosterol:cholesterol (C) ratios increased by 11-25 %, while sitosterol:C and campesterol:C ratios increased by 70-120 % with both the PS-fortified milk. Adjusted LDL-C reductions were variably enhanced in participants with basal low serum lathosterol/C or conversely high sitosterol/C and campesterol/C. Subjects with post-treatment serum PS:C ratios above the median showed mean LDL-C changes of - 59 to - 104 %, compared with 17 to - 29 % below the median. In conclusion, consumption of 2 g/d of PS as PS-SM and PS-VFM lowered LDL-C in hypercholesterolaemic subjects to a similar extent. Basal and post-treatment changes in markers of cholesterol metabolism indicating low cholesterol synthesis and high cholesterol absorption predicted improved LDL-C responses to PS.

UI  - 21999752
TI  - Effect of 2-year treatment with low-dose rosuvastatin on intima-media thickness in hypercholesterolemic subjects with asymptomatic carotid artery disease.
AB  - Two-year treatment with rosuvastatin 10 mg/day in hypercholesterolemic adults with evidence of subclinical atherosclerosis establishes a significant reduction in cIMT and improves lipid and lipoprotein levels, with a good tolerability profile.

UI  - 21995692
TI  - Comparison of the effects of simvastatin vs. rosuvastatin vs. simvastatin/ezetimibe on parameters of insulin resistance.
AB  - To the extent that simvastatin 40 mg, rosuvastatin 10 mg and simvastatin/ezetimibe 10/10 mg are associated with adverse effects on insulin resistance, they appear to be of the same magnitude.

UI  - 21982664
TI  - Efficacy and safety after cessation of treatment with the cholesteryl ester transfer protein inhibitor anacetrapib (MK-0859) in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia or mixed hyperlipidemia.
AB  - This report describes the lipid and safety data collected during an off-drug period that followed 8 weeks of treatment with the cholesteryl ester transfer protein inhibitor, anacetrapib (ANA). A total of 589 patients with primary hypercholesterolemia or mixed hyperlipidemia were randomized to placebo, atorvastatin (ATV) 20 mg, and varying doses of ANA, provided as monotherapy or coadministered with ATV 20 mg daily. Patients were treated for 8 weeks, followed by an 8-week follow-up period, during which ANA was switched to placebo. At week 16 (8 weeks after ANA was stopped), persistent reductions in low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) were evident for the monotherapy groups receiving ANA 150 and 300 mg (-9.3% and -15.3%, respectively), and residual increases in high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) were observed for the monotherapy groups receiving ANA 40 mg (18.6%), 150 mg (40.5%), and 300 mg (43.4%). The effects on apolipoprotein B and apolipoprotein A-I were consistent with the changes observed for LDL-C and HDL-C, respectively. Corresponding residual changes in LDL-C and HDL-C were also noted in the ATV coadministration groups at the similar doses of ANA compared with ATV 20 mg alone. Residual plasma drug levels accompanied by reductions in cholesteryl ester transfer protein activity were observed at week 16 and may account for the alterations in plasma lipids 8 weeks after cessation of ANA.

UI  - 21952693
TI  - Effect of soy and milk protein supplementation on serum lipid levels: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - This randomized controlled trial indicates that soy protein, but not milk protein, supplementation improves the lipid profile among healthy individuals.

UI  - 21926181
TI  - Purified anthocyanin supplementation improves endothelial function via NO-cGMP activation in hypercholesterolemic individuals.
AB  - Anthocyanin supplementation improves endothelium-dependent vasodilation in hypercholesterolemic individuals. This effect involves activation of the NO-cGMP signaling pathway, improvements in the serum lipid profile, and decreased inflammation.

UI  - 21922121
TI  - CEPHEUS SA: a South African survey on the undertreatment of hypercholesterolaemia.
AB  - The results of this survey highlight the sub-optimal lipid control achieved in many South African patients taking lipid-lowering therapy.

UI  - 21913974
TI  - Simvastatin enhances the antihypertensive effect of ramipril in hypertensive hypercholesterolemic animals and patients. Possible role of nitric oxide, oxidative stress, and high sensitivity C-reactive protein.
AB  - In this study, the effects of simvastatin on the blood pressure and on the antihypertensive activity of ramipril in hypertensive hypercholesterolemic animals and patients were evaluated. In hypertensive hypercholesterolemic animals, repeated administration of simvastatin slightly but significantly decreased the systolic blood pressure, enhanced its progressive reductions induced by repeated administration of ramipril and corrected the compromised lipid profile. Concomitantly, repeated administration of simvastatin, ramipril or simvastatin in combination with ramipril to these animals, increased nitric oxide (NO) production and decreased the elevated serum malondialdehyde (MDA) and high sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP) levels. The effects of combined treatment were greater than those of simvastatin or ramipril alone. In hypertensive hypercholesterolemic patients, repeated administration of ramipril decreased systolic and diastolic blood pressure, increased NO production, and decreased the elevated serum MDA and hs-CRP levels. Addition of simvastatin to ramipril therapy enhanced these effects and corrected the compromised lipid profile. Simvastatin but not ramipril inhibited the contractile responses of isolated aortic rings induced by angiotensin 11. l-arginine and acetylcholine enhanced, while l-NAME inhibited effects of simvastatin, and simvastatin in combination with ramipril on these contractile responses. These findings suggest that simvastatin exerts antihypertensive effect and enhances the antihypertensive effect of ramipril in hypertensive hypercholesterolemic animals and patients. In addition to its cholesterol-lowering effect, the ability of simvastatin to ameliorate endothelial dysfunction through increasing NO bioavailability and through suppression of oxidative stress and vascular inflammation and its ability to enhance the effect of ramipril on these parameters may play a pivotal role in these effects.

UI  - 21910898
TI  - Effect of plant sterols on the lipid profile of patients with hypercholesterolaemia. Randomised, experimental study.
AB  - If plant sterol ester supplements were effective a sounder recommendation for the consumption of plant sterols in subjects with hypercholesterolaemia could be made.

UI  - 21908036
TI  - Safety and efficacy of dalcetrapib on atherosclerotic disease using novel non-invasive multimodality imaging (dal-PLAQUE): a randomised clinical trial.
AB  - F Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd.

UI  - 21902857
TI  - Effect of lean red meat from lamb v. lean white meat from chicken on the serum lipid profile: a randomised, cross-over study in women.
AB  - The main dietary guidelines recommend restricting total and saturated fat intake in the management of high blood cholesterol levels for cardiovascular risk. These recommendations are usually oversimplified by considering that all red meats should be limited and replaced by white meats. However, lean red meat can be as low in fat as white meat. We examined the effects of red meat (lean breed lamb) and lean white meat (chicken) intake on the lipid profile of a group of women with stable life conditions (nuns living in convents). An open-label, randomised, cross-over study was carried out in thirty-six nuns who consumed either lamb or chicken three times per week for 5-week periods with their usual diet. Clinical, dietary and biochemical variables were evaluated at baseline and the end of each diet period. A validated FFQ was used to assess nutrient intake and monitor compliance. The results showed neither between-diet differences in lipid responses nor differences from baseline in total cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol or TAG for any diet period. In conclusion, consumption of lean red meat (lamb) or lean white meat (chicken) as part of the usual diet is associated with a similar lipid response. These two foods can be exchanged in a healthy diet to increase palatability.

UI  - 21881597
TI  - Low-dose atorvastatin reduces ambulatory blood pressure in patients with mild hypertension and hypercholesterolaemia: a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled study.
AB  - Among several beneficial cardiovascular actions of statins, experimental studies have suggested that statins may also induce a mild blood pressure (BP) reduction. However, clinical data were controversial and the potential hypotensive statin effect remains uncertain. This study aimed to investigate the effect of atorvastatin on ambulatory BP in patients with mild hypertension and hypercholesterolaemia. A total of 50 patients with mild hypertension and hypercholesterolaemia participated in this double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled study. Patients were randomized to either 10 mg atorvastatin or placebo for 26 weeks. Background antihypertensive treatment, if any, remained unchanged during follow-up. At baseline and study-end (26 weeks), ambulatory BP monitoring and blood sampling for determination of standard biochemical and safety parameters were performed in all participants. BP loads were defined as the percentage of BP measurements exceeding the hypertension threshold of 140/90 mmHg for daytime and 125/75 mmHg nighttime period. Atorvastatin significantly reduced 24-h systolic and diastolic BP (DBP; median (range)) as compared with placebo (-5.0 (-21.0, 4.0) vs +1.0 (-6.0, 7.0) mmHg, P<0.001 and -3.0 (-16.0, 2.0) vs +0.1 (-7, 4) mmHg, P<0.01, respectively). Reductions in systolic and DBP loads during follow-up were also evident in the atorvastatin, but not in the placebo group. BP-lowering effects of atorvastatin were consistent in both daytime and nighttime periods. This study shows a mild, but consistent throughout the 24-h period BP-lowering effect of atorvastatin in patients with mild hypertension and hypercholesterolaemia. This beneficial effect of atorvastatin on BP may represent another pathway through which this drug class provides cardiovascular risk reduction.

UI  - 21873710
TI  - The Anglo-Scandinavian Cardiac Outcomes Trial: 11-year mortality follow-up of the lipid-lowering arm in the U.K.
AB  - Legacy effects of those originally assigned atorvastatin may contribute to long-term benefits on all-cause mortality. An explanation for long-term benefits on non-CV deaths has not been established.

UI  - 21865559
TI  - Cholesterol-absorber status modifies the LDL cholesterol-lowering effect of a Mediterranean-type diet in adults with moderate cardiovascular risk factors.
AB  - LDL-cholesterol (LDL-C) reduction may be achieved by various types of prudent diets, but their effects on surrogate markers of cholesterol absorption and synthesis have not been well studied in humans. We aimed to assess whether the extent of cholesterol absorption or synthesis, and cholesterol concentrations, are modified in adults when they shift from a Western-type diet (WD) to a combined low-fat, low-cholesterol/Mediterranean-type diet (LFCMD). Cholestanol and sitosterol, as well as desmosterol and lathosterol, surrogate markers of cholesterol absorption or synthesis, respectively, were quantified in the serum of 125 fasting, middle-aged participants at moderate cardiovascular risk. They habitually consumed a WD and then consumed a LFCMD during the 3-mo intervention. The group was stratified by serum cholestanol concentration and classified as high, intermediate, or low absorbers of cholesterol. When they consumed the WD, participants had comparable total and LDL-C concentrations, independent of absorber group and sex. After 3 mo of consuming the LFCMD, absorption and synthesis did not change or changed only slightly. The cholestanol concentration increased in low absorbers by 18% (P < 0.02) and decreased in high absorbers by 14% (P < 0.001), but these variations did not change the high- or low-absorber status. In male and female low absorbers, plasma total (-7%) and LDL-C (-9%) concentrations decreased after the 3-mo intervention and changes were 2.3- and 2.4-fold greater, respectively, than in high absorbers, independent of sex. Cholesterol synthesis/absorption status was not markedly altered by diet, but the decrease in plasma LDL-C due to the Mediterranean-type diet occurred only in low absorbers of cholesterol. This should be considered during further dietary interventions.

UI  - 21859750
TI  - Lipid-altering efficacy of switching to ezetimibe/simvastatin 10/20 mg versus rosuvastatin 10 mg in high-risk patients with and without metabolic syndrome.
AB  - Metabolic syndrome (MetS) is a clustering of atherosclerotic coronary heart disease risk factors. This post-hoc analysis compared the effects of switching to ezetimibe/simvastatin 10/20 mg or rosuvastatin 10 mg in a cohort of 618 high-risk hypercholesterolaemic patients with (n=368) and without (n=217) MetS who had previously been on statin monotherapy. Patients were randomised 1:1 to double-blind ezetimibe/simvastatin 10/20 mg or rosuvastatin 10 mg for 6 weeks. Least squares mean percent change from baseline and 95% confidence intervals in lipid efficacy parameters were calculated for the population and within subgroups. Treatment with ezetimibe/simvastatin was significantly more effective than rosuvastatin at lowering low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, total cholesterol, non- high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and apolipoprotein B (all p<0.001). No significant differences in treatment effects were seen between the presence and absence of MetS. In this post-hoc analysis of high-risk hypercholesterolaemic patients the lipid-reducing effects of ezetimibe/simvastatin or rosuvastatin were not altered significantly by the presence of MetS.

UI  - 21856592
TI  - Colesevelam hydrochloride added to background metformin therapy in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus: a pooled analysis from 3 clinical studies.
AB  - When added to metformin-including therapy, colesevelam HCl significantly reduced A1C and fasting glucose, as well as levels of LDL-C, TC, non-HDL-C, and apo B in patients with inadequately controlled T2DM.

UI  - 21831508
TI  - Clinical, endocrine and metabolic effects of metformin vs N-acetyl-cysteine in women with polycystic ovary syndrome.
AB  - Metformin and NAC appear to have comparable effects on hyperandrogenism, hyperinsulinaemia and menstrual irregularity in women with PCOS. The effects of metformin and NAC on insulin sensitivity are not associated with TNF-.

UI  - 21831304
TI  - Antihyperlipidemic effects of Pleurotus ostreatus (oyster mushrooms) in HIV-infected individuals taking antiretroviral therapy.
AB  - Pleurotus ostreatus as administered in this experiment did not lower non-HDL cholesterol in HIV patients with ART-induced hypercholesterolemia. Small changes in HDL and triglycerides were not of a clinical magnitude to warrant further study.

UI  - 21824105
TI  - Risk factors for cardiovascular events in Japanese patients treated with fluvastatin from the long-term event monitoring (LEM) study.
AB  - The LEM study, a large-scale prospective study of long-term fluvastatin treatment for hypercholesterolemia in Japanese patients, demonstrated high impact of complications such as DM and hypertension as well as high triglycerides or low HDL-C on cardiac and cerebral events. After long-term statin treatment, the control of other factors rather than LDL-C alone might be important to avoid vascular events.

UI  - 21817806
TI  - Intensively lowering both low-density lipoprotein cholesterol and blood pressure does not reduce cardiovascular risk in Japanese coronary artery disease patients.
AB  - We could not show that intensively lowering both BP and LDL-C reduced cardiovascular risks in Japanese CAD patients with hypertension and hypercholesterolemia (UMIN-CTR UMIN000000571).

UI  - 21815708
TI  - Low-dose pravastatin and age-related differences in risk factors for cardiovascular disease in hypercholesterolaemic Japanese: analysis of the management of elevated cholesterol in the primary prevention group of adult Japanese (MEGA study).
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT00211705.

UI  - 21810288
TI  - Effect of 6 weeks' consumption of -glucan-rich oat products on cholesterol levels in mildly hypercholesterolaemic overweight adults.
AB  - Several regulatory bodies have approved a health claim on the cholesterol-lowering effects of oat -glucan at levels of 30 g/d. The present study aimed to test whether 15 g/d -glucan provided as ready-to-eat oat flakes was as effective in lowering cholesterol as 30 g/d from oats porridge. A 6-week randomised controlled trial was conducted in eighty-seven mildly hypercholesterolaemic (  5 mmol/l and < 75 mmol/l) men and women assigned to one of three diet arms (25 % energy (E%) protein; 45 E% carbohydrate; 30 E% fat, at energy requirements for weight maintenance): (1) minimal -glucan (control); (2) low-dose oat -glucan (15 g -glucan; oats low - OL) or (3) higher dose oat -glucan (30 g -glucan; oats high - OH). Changes in total cholesterol and LDL-cholesterol (LDL-C) from baseline were assessed using a linear mixed model and repeated-measures ANOVA, adjusted for weight change. Total cholesterol reduced significantly in all groups ( - 78 (sd 138) %, - 72 (sd 124) % and - 55 (sd 93) % in the OH, OL and control groups), as did LDL-C ( - 84 (sd 185) %, - 85 (sd 185) % and - 55 (sd 124) % in the OH, OL and control groups), but between-group differences were not significant. In responders only (n 60), -glucan groups had higher reductions in LDL-C ( - 183 (sd 111) % and - 181 (sd 92) % in the OH and OL groups) compared with controls ( - 117 (sd 79) %; P = 0044). Intakes of oat -glucan were as effective at doses of 15 g/d compared with 3 g/d when provided in different food formats that delivered similar amounts of soluble -glucan.

UI  - 21810257
TI  - The role of soluble fiber intake in patients under highly effective lipid-lowering therapy.
AB  - Among subjects treated with highly effective lipid-lowering therapy, the intake of 25 g of fibers added favorable effects, mainly by reducing phytosterolemia. Additional benefits include improvement in blood glucose and anthropometric parameters.

UI  - 21807618
TI  - Acute localized administration of tetrahydrobiopterin and chronic systemic atorvastatin treatment restore cutaneous microvascular function in hypercholesterolaemic humans.
AB  - Elevated oxidized low-density lipoproteins (LDL) are associated with vascular dysfunction in the cutaneous microvasculature, induced in part by upregulated arginase activity and increased globalized oxidant stress. Since tetrahydrobiopterin (BH(4)) is an essential cofactor for endothelial nitric oxide synthase (NOS3), decreased bioavailability of the substrate l-arginine and/or BH(4) may contribute to decreased NO production with hypercholesterolaemia. We hypothesized that (1) localized administration of BH(4) would augment NO-dependent vasodilatation in hypercholesterolaemic human skin, which would be further increased when combined with arginase inhibition and (2) the improvement induced by localized BH(4) would be attenuated after a 3 month oral atorvastatin intervention (10 mg). Four microdialysis fibres were placed in the skin of nine normocholesterolaemic (NC: LDL = 95  4 mg dl(-1)) and nine hypercholesterolaemic (HC: LDL = 177  6 mg dl(-1)) men and women before and after 3 months of systemic atorvastatin. Sites served as control, NOS inhibited, BH(4), and arginase inhibited + BH(4) (combo). Skin blood flow was measured while local skin heating (42C) induced NO-dependent vasodilatation. After the established plateau l-NAME was perfused in all sites to quantify NO-dependent vasodilatation (NO). Data were normalized to maximum cutaneous vascular conductance (CVC). Vasodilatation at the plateau and NO-dependent vasodilatation were reduced in HC subjects (plateau HC: 70  5% CVC(max)vs. NC: 95  2% CVC(max); NO HC: 45  5% CVC(max)vs. NC: 64  5% CVC(max); both P < 0.001). Localized BH(4) alone or combo augmented the plateau (BH(4): 93  3% CVC(max); combo 89  3% CVC(max), both P < 0.001) and NO-dependent vasodilatation in HC (BH(4): 74  3% CVC(max); combo 76  3% CVC(max), both P < 0.001), but there was no effect in NC subjects (plateau BH(4): 90  2% CVC(max); combo 95  3% CVC(max); NO-dependent vasodilatation BH(4): 68  3% CVC(max); combo 58  4% CVC(max), all P > 0.05 vs. control site). After the atorvastatin intervention (LDL = 98  mg * dl(-1)) there was an increase in the plateau in HC (96  4% CVC(max), P < 0.001) and NO-dependent vasodilatation (68  3% CVC(max), P < 0.001). Localized BH(4) alone or combo was less effective at increasing NO-dependent vasodilatation after the drug intervention (BH(4): 60  5% CVC(max); combo 58  2% CVC(max), both P < 0.001). These data suggest that decreased BH(4) bioavailability contributes in part to cutaneous microvascular dysfunction in hypercholesterolaemic humans and that atorvastatin is an effective systemic treatment for improving NOS coupling mechanisms in the microvasculature.

UI  - 21801467
TI  - Study of potential cardioprotective effects of Ganoderma lucidum (Lingzhi): results of a controlled human intervention trial.
AB  - Previous studies have suggested that Lingzhi (Ganoderma lucidum) has antioxidant effects and possibly beneficial effects on blood pressure, plasma lipids and glucose, but these have not been confirmed in subjects with mild hypertension or hyperlipidaemia. The objective of the present study was to assess the cardiovascular, metabolic, antioxidant and immunomodulatory responses to therapy with Lingzhi in patients with borderline elevations of blood pressure and/or cholesterol in a controlled cross-over trial. A total of twenty-six patients received 144 g Lingzhi daily or matching placebo for 12 weeks in a randomised, double-blind, cross-over study with placebo-controlled run-in and cross-over periods. Body weight, blood pressure, metabolic parameters, urine catecholamines and cortisol, antioxidant status and lymphocyte subsets were measured after each period. Lingzhi was well tolerated and data from twenty-three evaluable subjects showed no changes in BMI or blood pressure when treated with Lingzhi or placebo. Plasma insulin and homeostasis model assessment-insulin resistance were lower after treatment with Lingzhi than after placebo. TAG decreased and HDL-cholesterol increased with Lingzhi but not with placebo in the first treatment period, but significant carry-over effects prevented complete analysis of these parameters. Urine catecholamines and cortisol, plasma antioxidant status and blood lymphocyte subsets showed no significant differences across treatments. Results indicate that Lingzhi might have mild antidiabetic effects and potentially improve the dyslipidaemia of diabetes, as shown previously in some animal studies. Further studies are desirable in patients with hyperglycaemia.

UI  - 21798891
TI  - Evaluation of C-reactive protein prior to and on-treatment as a predictor of benefit from atorvastatin: observations from the Anglo-Scandinavian Cardiac Outcomes Trial.
AB  - Among these hypertensive patients selected on the basis of traditional CV risk factors, C-reactive protein did not usefully improve the prediction of CV events and, critically, reduction in C-reactive protein associated with statin therapy was not a predictor of CV outcome alone or in combination with LDL-c.

UI  - 21797102
TI  - Effect of moderate and high dose simvastatin on adhesion molecules in severe hypercholesterolemia after targeting the LDL-cholesterol--a randomised, placebo-controlled study.
AB  - As different statins most likely have a distinctly specific effect on different adhesion molecules, this study seeks to establish a suitable panel of such adhesion molecules that may be used in monitoring statin therapy.

UI  - 21787450
TI  - Effect of the Mediterranean diet with and without weight loss on surrogate markers of cholesterol homeostasis in men with the metabolic syndrome.
AB  - The mechanisms implicated in the LDL-cholesterol (LDL-C)-lowering effects of the Mediterranean-type diet (MedDiet) are unknown. The present study assessed the impact of the MedDiet consumed under controlled feeding conditions, with and without weight loss, on surrogate markers of cholesterol absorption, synthesis and clearance using plasma phytosterols, lathosterol and proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin-9 (PCSK9) concentrations, respectively, in men with the metabolic syndrome. The subjects' diet (n 19, 24-62 years) was first standardised to a baseline North American control diet (5 weeks) followed by a MedDiet (5 weeks), both under weight-maintaining isoenergetic feeding conditions. The participants then underwent a 20-week free-living energy restriction period (10 (sd 3)% reduction in body weight, P<001), followed by the consumption of the MedDiet (5 weeks) under controlled isoenergetic feeding conditions. The LDL-C-lowering effect of the MedDiet in the absence of weight loss (-99%) was accompanied by significant reductions in plasma PCSK9 concentrations (-117%, P<001) and in the phytosterol:cholesterol ratio (-97%, P<001) compared with the control diet. The addition of weight loss to the MedDiet had no further impact on plasma LDL-C concentrations and on these surrogate markers of LDL clearance and cholesterol absorption. The present results suggest that the MedDiet reduces plasma LDL-C concentrations primarily by increasing LDL clearance and reducing cholesterol absorption, with no synergistic effect of body weight loss in this process.

UI  - 21777742
TI  - High on-treatment platelet reactivity after prasugrel loading dose and cardiovascular events after percutaneous coronary intervention in acute coronary syndromes.
AB  - Despite the use of prasugrel, a significant number of patients undergoing PCI in the setting of acute coronary syndromes do not achieve optimal PR inhibition. Such patients have a higher risk for MACE after PCI.

UI  - 21775166
TI  - Relationship of glycemia control to lipid and blood pressure lowering and atherosclerosis: the SANDS experience.
AB  - In diabetic adults with no cardiovascular disease events, A1c was negatively associated with ability to achieve LDL-C, non-HDL-C and SBP goals but was not independently related to treatment-associated changes in CIMT or LVMI over 36 months.

UI  - 21768610
TI  - A randomized trial examining the effectiveness of switching from olanzapine, quetiapine, or risperidone to aripiprazole to reduce metabolic risk: comparison of antipsychotics for metabolic problems (CAMP).
AB  - Switching to aripiprazole led to improvement of non-HDL cholesterol levels and other metabolic parameters. Rates of efficacy failure were similar between groups, but switching to aripiprazole was associated with a higher rate of treatment discontinuation. In the context of close clinical monitoring, switching from an antipsychotic with high metabolic risk to one with lower risk to improve metabolic parameters is an effective strategy.

UI  - 21768544
TI  - Combined effects of ezetimibe and phytosterols on cholesterol metabolism: a randomized, controlled feeding study in humans.
AB  - URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00863265.

UI  - 21749017
TI  - Ethnic variations in lipid-lowering in response to a statin (EVIREST): a substudy of the Anglo-Scandinavian Cardiac Outcomes Trial (ASCOT).
AB  - A standard dose of atorvastatin improved lipid profiles to a similar extent in Whites, Blacks and South Asians. Given the proven benefits of statins, these results suggest that, when used in standard doses, they are likely to be similarly effective for cardiovascular disease prevention in all ethnic groups.

UI  - 21733319
TI  - Measured energy value of pistachios in the human diet.
AB  - Previous studies have suggested that lipid from nuts is more poorly absorbed than that from other food sources. If lipid from nuts is poorly absorbed, then the metabolisable energy contained in the nuts is less than that predicted by the Atwater general factors. A crossover feeding study was conducted in which sixteen volunteers consumed pistachios for 3 weeks as part of a controlled diet. Pistachio doses were 0, 42 and 84g/d. Urine and faecal samples were collected, and urine, faeces and diet were analysed for N, fat, total dietary fibre, ash and combustible energy. Blood was also collected after each treatment period and analysed for plasma lipids. Energy value of pistachio nuts was calculated from differences in energy excretion during the different dietary treatments. The measured energy density of pistachios was found to be 226kJ/g, which is 5% less than the currently accepted energy value of 237kJ/g, as calculated using the Atwater general factors. The pistachio nut intervention lowered LDL-cholesterol by 6%, but did not significantly change plasma total cholesterol, HDL-cholesterol or TAG. In conclusion, pistachio nuts contain less metabolisable energy than that calculated from the Atwater general factors. Accurate information about metabolisable energy content of foods is important for reliable food labelling.

UI  - 21730224
TI  - Action of plant sterol intervention on sterol kinetics in hypercholesterolemic men with high versus low basal circulatory plant sterol concentrations.
AB  - These data suggest that basal PS concentrations indicate not only sterol absorption efficiency but also the extent of PS-induced cholesterol reduction and thus might be clinically useful to predict the extent of cholesterol response to PS intervention within a given individual.

UI  - 21728920
TI  - Snack bars with high soy protein and isoflavone content for use in diets to control dyslipidaemia.
AB  - The objective was to develop a cereal bar product rich in isoflavones and soy protein to be used in diets for controlling dyslipidaemia. A soy snack bar with 39.88 g/100 g dietary fibre, 34.25 g/100 g protein, 100.39 mg/100 g isoflavones and 245.47 kcal/100 g was produced. The shelf life of the product was tested over a period of 6 months. The hardness, water activity and darkness of the snack bars increased with storage time. Clinical trial was carried out to evaluate the effectiveness of the soy snack bar on the lipid profiles of 22 dyslipidaemic subjects for a period of 45 days. There was a decrease in levels of triglycerides (TGs) (- 20%) and an increase in high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-c) (+8%) comparing with baseline values. Therefore, relatively high intakes of soy protein and isoflavones in moderately hypercholesterolaemic subjects (>200 mg/dl) may have a moderately beneficial effect on plasma lipid profiles, as TG and HDL-c levels, without additional diet restrictions.

UI  - 21728907
TI  - Vitamin D deficiency, myositis-myalgia, and reversible statin intolerance.
AB  - Symptomatic myositis-myalgia in hypercholesterolemic statin-treated patients with concurrent serum 25 (OH) vitamin D deficiency may reflect a reversible interaction between vitamin D deficiency and statins on skeletal muscle causing myalgia.

UI  - 21715698
TI  - Oral atorvastatin therapy increases nitric oxide-dependent cutaneous vasodilation in humans by decreasing ascorbate-sensitive oxidants.
AB  - Elevated low-density lipoproteins (LDL) are associated with cutaneous microvascular dysfunction partially mediated by increased arginase activity, which is decreased following a systemic atorvastatin therapy. We hypothesized that increased ascorbate-sensitive oxidant stress, partially mediated through uncoupled nitric oxide synthase (NOS) induced by upregulated arginase, contributes to cutaneous microvascular dysfunction in hypercholesterolemic (HC) humans. Four microdialysis fibers were placed in the skin of nine HC (LDL = 177  6 mg/dl) men and women before and after 3 mo of a systemic atorvastatin intervention and at baseline in nine normocholesterolemic (NC) (LDL = 95  4 mg/dl) subjects. Sites served as control, NOS inhibited, L-ascorbate, and arginase-inhibited+L-ascorbate. Skin blood flow was measured while local skin heating (42C) induced NO-dependent vasodilation. After the established plateau in all sites, 20 mM ngname was infused to quantify NO-dependent vasodilation. Data were normalized to maximum cutaneous vascular conductance (CVC) (sodium nitroprusside + 43C). The plateau in vasodilation during local heating (HC: 78  4 vs. NC: 96  2% CVC(max), P < 0.01) and NO-dependent vasodilation (HC: 40  4 vs. NC: 54  4% CVC(max), P < 0.01) was reduced in the HC group. Acute L-ascorbate alone (91  5% CVC(max), P < 0.001) or combined with arginase inhibition (96  3% CVC(max), P < 0.001) augmented the plateau in vasodilation in the HC group but not the NC group (ascorbate: 96  2; combo: 93  4% CVC(max), both P > 0.05). After the atorvastatin intervention NO-dependent vasodilation was augmented in the HC group (HC postatorvastatin: 64  4% CVC(max), P < 0.01), and there was no further effect of ascorbate alone (58  4% CVC(max,) P > 0.05) or combined with arginase inhibition (67  4% CVC(max,) P > 0.05). Increased ascorbate-sensitive oxidants contribute to hypercholesteromic associated cutaneous microvascular dysfunction which is partially reversed with atorvastatin therapy.

UI  - 21714932
TI  - Relationship between hemoglobin A1c and cardiovascular disease in mild-to-moderate hypercholesterolemic Japanese individuals: subanalysis of a large-scale randomized controlled trial.
AB  - In hypercholesterolemic individuals the risk of CVD increases linearly with HbA1c level. This significant contribution by elevated HbA1c to increased CVD is independent of pravastatin therapy, and thus requires appropriate HbA1c management in addition to lipids reduction.

UI  - 21699369
TI  - Begin with the real-world patients of non-goal-achieved hypercholesterolemia in taiwan through the ezetimibe/simvastatin tablet - The BRAVO Study.
AB  - A single tablet combination of 10mg ezetimibe and 20mg simvastatin in Taiwanese patients with hypercholesterolemia provided high LDL-C goal attainment rates and resulted in significant reductions in LDL-C.

UI  - 21693699
TI  - Comparison of effects of morning versus evening administration of ezetimibe/simvastatin on serum cholesterol in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia.
AB  - Morning administration of ezetimibe/simvastatin 10 mg/20 mg is noninferior to evening administration with respect to LDL-C-lowering ability.

UI  - 21677123
TI  - Effects of diets high in walnuts and flax oil on hemodynamic responses to stress and vascular endothelial function.
AB  - These results suggest novel mechanisms for the cardioprotective effects of walnuts and flax, and further work is needed to identify the bioactives responsible for these effects.

UI  - 21674629
TI  - A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial to evaluate efficacy and tolerability of an optimized botanical combination in the management of patients with primary hypercholesterolemia and mixed dyslipidemia.
AB  - This study compared the efficacy and tolerability of an optimized botanical combination containing policosanol, tomato extract, orally bioavailable grape procyanidins and Oenothera biennis oil against placebo in the management of patients with primary hypercholesterolemia and mixed dyslipidemia. Such a combination is endowed with biological properties targeted to cholesterol control and vasoprotection. This randomized, double-blind, parallel-group trial consisted of a 6week treatment period following 4week baseline period, and a 2week post-treatment follow-up. At baseline, both the groups were comparable to each other. Both the active treatment and the placebo group included 30 patients (active treatment: mean age 46.807.43years, nine males; placebo: mean age 45.506.76years, eight males). Significant reductions in the LDL-cholesterol (LDL-C; -17.33% from baseline, p<0.001) and total cholesterol (TC; -13.38% from baseline, p<0.0001) values over the treatment period were observed with the tested product. The treatment also resulted in reductions in C-reactive protein (CRP), malondialdehyde (MDA) and superoxide dismutase (SOD) values, which are indices of oxidative stress. This rational combination of different compounds is effective and safe in lowering the elevated LDL-C and TC values. It is also effective in the modulation of the oxidation indices values; however, a further long term study in a larger population would be needed in order to confirm these preliminary findings.

UI  - 21654701
TI  - A diet rich in oat bran improves blood lipids and hemostatic factors, and reduces apparent energy digestibility in young healthy volunteers.
AB  - Addition of oat bran (6g soluble fiber/day) to a low-fiber diet lowered total and non-HDL cholesterol, as well as hemostatic factors, and may affect energy balance through reduced energy utilization.

UI  - 21651447
TI  - The effect of pitavastatin calcium on endothelial dysfunction induced by hypercholesterolemia.
AB  - Endothelial dysfunction induced by hypercholesteremia can be ameliorated by pitavastatin calcium treatment, which occurs in part through its antioxidative properties.

UI  - 21640762
TI  - Impact of atorvastatin on serum vaspin levels in hypercholesterolemic patients with moderate cardiovascular risk.
AB  - In hypercholesterolemic patients with moderate estimated cardiovascular risk, atorvastatin administration reduced hsCRP and increased serum vaspin levels compared to lifestyle modification. The relation of those pleiotropic, non-lipid-lowering effects of statins with their clinical outcomes remains to be proved.

UI  - 21623963
TI  - The effect of ezetimibe, administered alone or in combination with simvastatin, on lymphocyte cytokine release in patients with elevated cholesterol levels.
AB  - The results of this study indicate that simvastatin is superior to ezetimibe in producing lymphocyte-suppressing, systemic anti-inflammatory and endothelial protective effects in patients with elevated cholesterol levels. Hypercholesterolaemic patients with high cardiovascular risk may receive the greatest benefits from concomitant treatment with a statin and ezetimibe.

UI  - 21615316
TI  - Efficacy and safety of pitavastatin in Japanese patients with hypercholesterolemia: LIVES study and subanalysis.
AB  - The Livalo Effectiveness and Safety (LIVES) study was an observational study to examine the efficacy and safety of pitavastatin, a newly developed drug, in approximately 20,000 Japanese patients with hypercholesterolemia. During a 2-year follow-up period, no significant problems concerning safety were observed upon treatment with pitavastatin. Pitavastatin demonstrated potent and stable lowering of the LDL-cholesterol level. The LIVES study subanalyses revealed significant and continuous elevation of HDL-cholesterol in association with pitavastatin treatment and also showed that the drug did not adversely affect glycemic control as evaluated by the glycohemoglobin A(1c) level. Moreover, pitavastatin treatment was associated with an increase in estimated glomerular filtration rate in subjects with chronic kidney disease. These results suggest the usefulness of pitavastatin in hypercholesterolemic patients from various backgrounds. The ongoing LIVES study extension is expected to provide further data on cardiovascular outcome in subjects treated with pitavastatin.

UI  - 21605733
TI  - Activating peripheral arterial disease patients to reduce cholesterol: a randomized trial.
AB  - Telephone counseling that helped peripheral arterial disease patients request more intensive cholesterol-lowering therapy from their physician achieved greater LDL cholesterol decreases than an attention control arm that provided health information alone.

UI  - 21602698
TI  - Clinical management and follow-up of hypercholesterolemia among perinatally HIV-infected children enrolled in the PACTG 219C study.
AB  - The majority of children who develop hypercholesterolemia maintain elevated levels over time, potentially placing them at risk for premature cardiovascular morbidity.

UI  - 21600524
TI  - A Mediterranean-style low-glycemic-load diet improves variables of metabolic syndrome in women, and addition of a phytochemical-rich medical food enhances benefits on lipoprotein metabolism.
AB  - A Mediterranean-style low-glycemic-load diet effectively reduces the variables of MetS. Addition of the medical food results in a less atherogenic lipoprotein profile and lower plasma homocysteine.

UI  - 21596364
TI  - Safety and efficacy of ezetimibe added on to rosuvastatin 5 or 10 mg versus up-titration of rosuvastatin in patients with hypercholesterolemia (the ACTE Study).
AB  - The present multicenter, 6-week, randomized, double-blind, parallel-group, clinical trial evaluated the safety and efficacy of ezetimibe (10 mg) added to stable rosuvastatin therapy versus up-titration of rosuvastatin from 5 to 10 mg or from 10 to 20 mg. The study population included 440 subjects at moderately high/high risk of coronary heart disease with low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol levels higher than the National Cholesterol Education Program Adult Treatment Panel III recommendations (<100 mg/dl for moderately high/high-risk subjects without atherosclerotic vascular disease or <70 mg/dl for high-risk subjects with atherosclerotic vascular disease). Pooled data demonstrated that ezetimibe added to stable rosuvastatin 5 mg or 10 mg reduced LDL cholesterol by 21%. In contrast, doubling rosuvastatin to 10 mg or 20 mg reduced LDL cholesterol by 5.7% (between-group difference of 15.2%, p <0.001). Individually, ezetimibe plus rosuvastatin 5 mg reduced LDL cholesterol more than did rosuvastatin 10 mg (12.3% difference, p <0.001), and ezetimibe plus rosuvastatin 10 mg reduced LDL cholesterol more than did rosuvastatin 20 mg (17.5% difference, p <0.001). Compared to rosuvastatin up-titration, ezetimibe add-on achieved significantly greater attainment of LDL cholesterol levels of <70 or <100 mg/dl (59.4% vs 30.9%, p <0.001), and <70 mg/dl in all subjects (43.8% vs 17.5%, p <0.001); produced significantly greater reductions in total cholesterol, non-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and apolipoprotein B (p <0.001); and resulted in similar effects on other lipid parameters. Adverse experiences were generally comparable among the groups. In conclusion, compared to up-titration doubling of the rosuvastatin dose, ezetimibe 10 mg added to stable rosuvastatin 5 mg or 10 mg produced greater improvements in many lipid parameters and achieved greater attainment of the National Cholesterol Education Program Adult Treatment Panel III recommended LDL cholesterol targets in subjects with elevated LDL cholesterol and at moderately high/high coronary heart disease risk.

UI  - 21593041
TI  - Efficacy of apolipoprotein B synthesis inhibition in subjects with mild-to-moderate hyperlipidaemia.
AB  - Mipomersen administered as monotherapy in subjects with mild-to-moderate hyperlipidaemia produced potent reductions in all apoB-containing lipoproteins. Higher doses were associated with hepatic transaminase increases.

UI  - 21576969
TI  - Assessment of the quality of secondary ischemic stroke prevention in selected urban areas of Poland and Ukraine: the ASCEP study results.
AB  - The quality of secondary IS prevention is insufficient, and there is a need for complex educational interventions in patients, their families and medical staff. Our data also call for organizational changes in the health service both in Poland and Ukraine.

UI  - 21561620
TI  - Effect of n-3 fatty acids and statins on oxidative stress in statin-treated hypercholestorelemic and normocholesterolemic women.
AB  - Combining statins and n-3 fatty acids is an excellent strategy to reduce plasma cholesterol and triacylglycerol concentration in women. However, n-3 fatty acids increased the oxidative stress and the pleiotropic effect of statins seemed to be not enough to counterbalance this result. Our data also suggested that the mechanism by which n-3 fatty acids interfere in oxidative stress can be associated with antioxidant enzymes expression and activity.

UI  - 21555712
TI  - Endothelium-derived hyperpolarizing factor determines resting and stimulated forearm vasodilator tone in health and in disease.
AB  - First, by activating TEA-inhibitable K(+)(Ca) channels, endothelium-derived hyperpolarizing factors, together with nitric oxide, contribute to resting microvascular dilator tone. The contribution of K(+)(Ca) channel activation compared with nitric oxide is greater in those with multiple risk factors compared with healthy subjects. Second, activation of K(+)(Ca) channels is only partly through epoxyeicosatrienoic acid release, indicating the presence of other hyperpolarizing mechanisms. Third, bradykinin, but not acetylcholine, stimulates K(+)(Ca) channel-mediated vasodilation in healthy subjects, whereas in hypercholesterolemia, K(+)(Ca) channel-mediated vasodilation compensates for the reduced nitric oxide activity. Thus, enhanced endothelium-derived hyperpolarizing factor activity in conditions of nitric oxide deficiency contributes to maintenance of resting and agonist-stimulated vasodilation. Clinical Trial Registration- URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00166166.

UI  - 21546340
TI  - [Becoming more "goal-oriented" in therapy of dyslipidemias: results of the Hungarian MULTI GAP 2010].
AB  - There is a need for more effective lipid lowering therapy with more frequent use of higher doses of statins or combinations of lipid lowering drugs.

UI  - 21530172
TI  - Total cardiovascular risk approach to improve efficiency of cardiovascular prevention in resource constrain settings.
AB  - Adopting a total cardiovascular risk approach instead of a single risk factor approach reduces health care expenditure by reducing drug costs. Therefore, limited resources can be more efficiently used to target high-risk people who will benefit the most. This strategy needs to be complemented with population-wide measures to shift the cardiovascular risk distribution of the whole population.

UI  - 21505506
TI  - Beta-glucan- or rice bran-enriched foods: a comparative crossover clinical trial on lipidic pattern in mildly hypercholesterolemic men.
AB  - The results of the present crossover clinical trial showed that beta-glucan-enriched foods are more effective in lowering serum LDL levels, compared with rice bran-enriched foods.

UI  - 21505266
TI  - Multi-center study on the prevalence of hypothyroidism in patients with hypercholesterolemia.
AB  - Hypercholesterolemia is one of the most representative disorders of the common diseases. To evaluate the prevalence of hypothyroidism in the population of adult hypercholesterolemia, we prospectively examined the thyroid function in patients with untreated or treated hypercholesterolemia as a multi-center survey. Subjects were the patients who were treated with some antilipemic agents or the untreated patients whose total cholesterol (TC) was over 220 mg/dL and/or LDL-cholesterol (LDL-C) over 140 mg/dL. Among 737 cases recruited, 725 cases (300 males and 425 females) participated in the survey including the thyroid function test. The patient's backgrounds include hypertension (51%), diabetes mellitus (49%), fatty liver (17%), smoking (15%), and habitual drinking (10%). The 72% of the patients were treated with some antilipemic agents and the mean values of TC, LDL-C, triglyceride (TG), HDL-cholesterol (HDL-C), and LDL-C/HDL-C ratio (L/H) were 204.5 mg/dL, 119.6 mg/dL, 144.4 mg/dL, 60.7 mg/dL and 2.25, respectively. The primary hypothyroidism was seen in 27 cases (3.7%) (11 males, 16 females) with subclinical hypothyroidism in 17 cases (2.4%) and overt hypothyroidism in 10 cases (1.4%). The central hypothyroidism was seen in 4 cases (0.6%). The prevalence of hypothyroidism was 4.3% in patients with hypercholesterolemia. Taking account of the large number of patients with dyslipidemia and importance of avoiding unnecessary administration and associated adverse effects, evaluation of the thyroid function could be warranted in patients with dyslipidemia although cost-benefit issues waits further investigation.

UI  - 21498906
TI  - Randomized head-to-head comparison of pitavastatin, atorvastatin, and rosuvastatin for safety and efficacy (quantity and quality of LDL): the PATROL trial.
AB  - The safety and efficacy of these 3 strong statins are equal. It is suggested that the use of these 3 statins be completely dependent on physician discretion based on patient background.

UI  - 21489663
TI  - Low intestinal cholesterol absorption is associated with a reduced efficacy of phytosterol esters as hypolipemic agents in patients with metabolic syndrome.
AB  - PS therapy appears to be of little value to MetS patients, likely due to its reduced intestinal cholesterol absorption. The efficacy of PS as hypocholesterolaemic agents is thus limited.

UI  - 21488754
TI  - Cardiovascular effects of consumption of black versus English walnuts.
AB  - English walnuts have been shown to decrease cardiovascular disease risk; however, black walnuts do not appear to have not been studied for their cardioprotective effects. The purpose of this study was to determine the effects of English versus black walnut consumption on blood lipids, body weight, fatty-acid composition of red blood cell (RBC) membranes, and endothelial function. Consumption of 30 g of English walnuts per day for 30 days, by 36 human participants, improved blood lipids; the effects of black walnuts were dependent on the participant's sex. Addition of either nut to the diet did not result in weight gain. The fatty-acid composition of RBC membranes was favorably affected by walnut consumption. RBC polyunsaturated fatty acids increased after consumption of either type of nut; however, eicosapentaenoic acid increased significantly more after English walnut consumption. Endothelial function of 6 unmedicated humans with hypercholesterolemia was maintained after consumption of English walnuts with a meal high in high saturated fats; however, consumption of black walnuts with the same meal did not maintain endothelial function. Overall, these results support the recommendation that consumption of 1 oz of English walnuts per day may decrease cardiovascular risk, but more research on black walnut consumption is necessary before an appropriate recommendation can be made.

UI  - 21486801
TI  - Oral atorvastatin therapy restores cutaneous microvascular function by decreasing arginase activity in hypercholesterolaemic humans.
AB  - Elevated low-density lipoproteins (LDLs) are associated with vascular dysfunction evident in the cutaneous microvasculature. We hypothesized that uncoupled endothelial nitric oxide synthase (NOS3) through upregulated arginase contributes to cutaneous microvascular dysfunction in hyperocholesterolaemic (HC) humans and that a statin intervention would decrease arginase activity. Five microdialysis fibres were placed in the skin of nine normocholesterolaemic (NC: LDL level 954 mg dl) and nine hypercholesterolaemic (HC: LDL: 1776 mg dl) men and women before and after 3 months of systemic atrovastatin. Sites served as control, NOS inhibited, arginase inhibited, L-arginine supplemented and arginase inhibited plus L-arginine supplemented. Skin blood flow was measured while local skin heating (42C) induced NO-dependent vasodilatation. L-NAME was infused after the established plateau in all sites to quantify NO-dependent vasodilatation. Data were normalized to maximum cutaneous vascular conductance (CVC(max)). Skin samples were obtained to measure total arginase activity and arginase I and arginase II protein. Vasodilatation was reduced in hyperocholesterolaemic subjects (HC: 762 vs. NC: 943%CVC(max), P < 0.001) as was NO-dependent vasodilatation (HC: 435 vs. NC: 624%CVC(max), P < 0.001). The plateau and NO-dependent vasodilatation were augmented in HC with arginase inhibition (922, 672%CVC(max), P < 0.001), L-arginine (932, 715%CVC(max), P < 0.001) and combined treatments (944, 655%CVC(max), P < 0.001) but not in NC. After statin intervention (LDL: 985 mg dl) there was no longer a difference between control sites (884, 615%CVC(max)) and localized microdialysis treatment sites (all P > 0.05). Arginase activity and protein were increased in HC skin (P < 0.05 vs. NC) and activity decreased with atrovastatin treatment (P < 0.05). Reduced NOS3 substrate availability through upregulated arginase contributes to cutaneous microvascular dysfunction in hyperocholesterolaemic humans, which is corrected with atorvastatin therapy.

UI  - 21450606
TI  - Lipid-lowering treatment in hypercholesterolaemic patients: the CEPHEUS Pan-Asian survey.
AB  - A large proportion of Asian hypercholesterolaemic patients on lipid-lowering drugs are not at recommended LDL-C levels and remain at risk for cardiovascular disease. Given the proven efficacy of lipid-lowering drugs in the reduction of LDL-C, there is room for further optimization of treatments to maximize benefits and improve outcomes.

UI  - 21444882
TI  - Association of vascular risk factors with cervical artery dissection and ischemic stroke in young adults.
AB  - These results, from the largest series to date, suggest that hypertension, although less prevalent than in patients with a non-CEAD IS, could be a risk factor of CEAD, whereas hypercholesterolemia, obesity, and overweightness are inversely associated with CEAD.

UI  - 21392096
TI  - The effect of ezetimibe and simvastatin on hemostasis in patients with isolated hypercholesterolemia.
AB  - The aim of this study was to assess the strength of hemostatic effects of ezetimibe, administered alone or in combination with simvastatin, in patients with isolated hypercholesterolemia. One hundred and four patients with isolated primary hypercholesterolemia were randomized to one of four treatment groups, simultaneously treated for 90 days with ezetimibe (10 mg daily), simvastatin (40 mg daily), ezetimibe (10 mg daily) plus simvastatin (40 mg daily), or placebo. Plasma lipids/lipoproteins and hemostatic cardiovascular risk factors were assessed on the day of randomization and after 30 and 90 days of therapy. Despite improving lipid/lipoprotein profile by both simvastatin and ezetimibe, only simvastatin reduced plasma levels/activity of fibrinogen, factor VII, factor X, von Willebrand factor, and plasminogen activator inhibitor-1. The strongest effects on plasma lipids/lipoproteins and the assessed hemostatic variables were observed when patients were treated with both simvastatin and ezetimibe. With the exception of oxidized low-density lipoproteins, the hemostatic effects of simvastatin or simvastatin plus ezetimibe did not correlate with the changes in plasma lipids/lipoproteins. Our study shows that simvastatin is a more effective agent than ezetimibe in affecting coagulation and fibrinolysis in individuals with isolated hypercholesterolemia. It also suggests that the combined administration of simvastatin and ezetimibe may bring more benefits to patients than monotherapy with only one of these agents.

UI  - 21387322
TI  - Effects of Graptopetalum paraguayense consumption on serum lipid profiles and antioxidative status in hypercholesteremic subjects.
AB  - The present study demonstrated that consumption of G. paraguayense may increase in vivo antioxidant activities and have some protective effects in decreasing oxidative stress in hypercholesterolemic subjects.

UI  - 21372619
TI  - Proteomic approach to the study of statin pleiotropy in kidney transplant patients.
AB  - These findings may contribute to the growing body of evidence of the anti-inflammatory actions attributed to statins, by which these drugs could improve these patients' clinical status.

UI  - 21372492
TI  - Efficacy of ezetimibe as monotherapy or combination therapy in hypercholesterolemic patients with and without diabetes.
AB  - Ezetimibe selectively inhibits dietary and biliary cholesterol absorption and reduces serum cholesterol levels when administered alone (monotherapy) and along with common lipid-regulating agents (combination therapy). To evaluate the effect of ezetimibe therapy on the lipid profile, glucose metabolism, and levels of cholesterol absorption and synthesis markers, we administered 10 mg ezetimibe to 50 hypercholesterolemic patients with or without diabetes. The serum levels of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol and total cholesterol were significantly reduced at 4 and 12 weeks of ezetimibe therapy in diabetic patients of both the monotherapy and combination-therapy groups and in nondiabetic patients of the combination-therapy group. The serum levels of the cholesterol absorption markers were significantly reduced, while those of the cholesterol synthesis markers were significantly increased at 12 weeks of ezetimibe therapy. No significant differences were noted in the values of the parameters of glucose metabolism in all patients. We also investigated the clinical characteristics of patients who exhibited a good response to ezetimibe (ezetimibe responders); however, multivariate regression analysis did not reveal a correlation between ezetimibe efficacy and patient characteristics such as gender, age, BMI, diabetic condition, method of ezetimibe administration, and the initial absolute values of cholesterol absorption/synthesis markers levels. In conclusion, ezetimibe therapy significantly improved the lipid profile without disturbing glucose metabolism. We were unable to identify the specific characteristics of ezetimibe responders among our subjects. However, we may interpret this result as suggesting that ezetimibe can be used in any population to lower low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels.

UI  - 21371451
TI  - The effect of a platelet cholesterol modulation on the acetylsalicylic acid-mediated blood platelet inhibition in hypercholesterolemic patients.
AB  - Aspirin (acetylsalicylic acid, ASA) is widely used in the prevention of cardiovascular disease, but its beneficial effects may be restrained in some individuals, where the reduced ability of ASA to protect against arterial thrombotic events is observed. We analyzed the influence of the treatment with atorvastatin (10mg/day) on the platelet sensitivity to ASA monitored under in vitro conditions in hypercholesterolemic patients. The associations between plasma or platelet cholesterol parameters and the ASA-mediated inhibition of platelet reactivity or the extent of platelet protein acetylation by ASA were estimated in the patients treated with atorvastatin for 1, 3, or 6 months. Out of 27 patients, in 17 individuals platelets appeared significantly more sensitive to 50 M ASA in arachidonic acid- or collagen-induced whole blood aggregation following 1 month atorvastatin therapy (inhibition by 60.9  5.6% vs. 48.8  5.4%, P<0.05 for 0.5mM arachidonic acid, 40.8  2.9% vs. 27.0  4.1%, P<0.05 for 1 g/ml collagen), and this effect lasted for 3 and 6 months, remaining in a weak, although significant, relation to the reduction of platelet cholesterol content (R(S)=-0.277, P<0.002 for arachidonic acid, R(S)=-0.197, P<0.02 for collagen). It was, however, not dependent upon either antiplatelet action or plasma lipid-lowering activity of atorvastatin. In addition, in about 50% of patients, we noticed that ASA (50 M) significantly and time-dependently diminished thromboxane B(2) concentration in atorvastatin-treated patients. The ASA-induced acetylation of platelet proteins significantly increased in the course of atorvastatin therapy and was associated with reduced platelet cholesterol (R(S)=-0.598, P<0.0001). In conclusion, statin therapy may improve platelet sensitivity to ASA in some hypercholesterolemic patients. This effect may extend beyond the action of atorvastatin as merely a lipid-lowering agent. The mechanisms of resistance of some patients to such a combined ASA-statin treatment remain to be elucidated.

UI  - 21359598
TI  - Ezetimibe treatment lowers indicators of oxidative stress in hypercholesterolemic subjects with high oxidative stress.
AB  - Ezetimibe effectively reduces low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C). In this study, we tested the hypothesis that ezetimibe monotherapy may also decrease markers of oxidative stress in subjects with hypercholesterolemia. Subjects with hypercholesterolemia and no evidence of cardiovascular disease were randomly allocated to open-label ezetimibe monotherapy 10 mg/day (EZT group) or therapeutic lifestyle changes (TLC group). At baseline and 12 weeks post-treatment serum lipoprotein and apolipoprotein levels as well as oxidative stress parameters, including oxidized LDL (ox-LDL), 8-isoprostanes (8-epiPGF2a) and reactive oxygen metabolites (d-ROMs) levels, were blindly determined. A total of 60 patients were included; 30 in each group. Despite a significant decrease in ox-LDL levels (by 20.8%, p < 0.001 vs. baseline; p < 0.001 vs. TLC group) in the EZT group no change in the ratio ox-LDL to LDL-C was noticed following ezetimibe treatment. No significant change in 8-epiPGF2a and d-ROMs levels was observed in the EZT group. Of note, a significant decrease in 8-epiPGF2a and d-ROMs levels (by 20.4% and 18.2%, respectively, p < 0.01 vs. baseline for both), was noted among patients in the EZT group who exhibited 'high oxidative stress' at baseline. No change in any of oxidative stress parameters was noted in the TLC group. Ezetimibe may decrease markers of oxidative stress in hypercholesterolemic subjects. This benefit may be more profound among patients who exhibit 'high oxidative stress' at baseline.

UI  - 21357213
TI  - Low cholesterol in dialysis patients--causal factor for mortality or an effect of confounding?
AB  - Reverse association between cholesterol concentration and mortality in dialysis patients is short-termed, consistent with the hypothesis of time discrepancy of competing risks. Low cholesterol appeared to affect non-cardiovascular mortality in ESRD patients free from confounders.

UI  - 21354545
TI  - [Response to treatment with oral alitretinoin in patients with chronic hand eczema that is refractory to treatment with potent topical corticosteroids: experience in 15 patients].
AB  - The results of our study support the proposal of alitretinoin as an effective and safe short-term and medium-term treatment for chronic hand eczema in patients whose disease is refractory to treatment with potent topical corticosteroids.

UI  - 21349260
TI  - Switching from statin monotherapy to ezetimibe/simvastatin or rosuvastatin modifies the relationships between apolipoprotein B, LDL cholesterol, and non-HDL cholesterol in patients at high risk of coronary disease.
AB  - The use of Apo B for monitoring the efficacy of lipid-altering therapy would likely lead to more stringent criteria for lipid lowering.

UI  - 21343598
TI  - En Balance participants decrease dietary fat and cholesterol intake as part of a culturally sensitive Hispanic diabetes education program.
AB  - The En Balance program improved glycemic control and lipid profiles in a group of Hispanic diabetic participants. En Balance also promoted decreases in dietary fat and dietary cholesterol intake.

UI  - 21334753
TI  - Pleiotropic effects of ezetimibe/simvastatin vs. high dose simvastatin.
AB  - These data suggest that among stable CAD patients treated with S20, (1) both E10/S20 and S80 were equally effective in further reducing LDL-C; (2) neither treatment had any further significant anti-inflammatory effects; and (3) E10/S20 was more effective than S80 in inhibiting platelet aggregation. Thus, despite similar lipid lowering and doses 4 less of simvastatin, E10/S20 induced a greater platelet inhibitory effect than S80.

UI  - 21334223
TI  - High-dose atorvastatin enhances impaired cerebral vasomotor reactivity.
AB  - The influence of statin therapy on cerebral vasomotor function has not been fully characterized. We report the effects of high-dose atorvastatin therapy on cerebral vasomotor reactivity (VMR) in patients with controlled hypertension and dyslipidemia. We prospectively enrolled 36 patients with controlled hypertension and a low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol concentration >100 mg/dL. Atorvastatin 80 mg was given daily for 6 months and then discontinued. VMR was assessed by hypercapnic and hypocapnic transcranial Doppler challenge in both the right and left middle cerebral artery (MCA) at baseline, and after 3 and 6 months of therapy. Forty-five days after statin cessation, a repeat VMR was performed. VMR impairment was defined as 70%. Blood pressure, lipid levels, liver function, and creatine kinase level were monitored. Mean patient age was 60 years, 16 were men, and 13 had a previous history of subcortical infarction. Mean LDL cholesterol level before treatment was 154  30 mg/dL. Atorvastatin lowered LDL by 53% at 3 months and by 46% at 6 months. Baseline VMR was 71%  21% in the right MCA and 70%  19% in the left MCA. No significant effect of atorvastatin on VMR was seen at 3 months and 6 months in the study population as a whole. In the subgroup of patients with baseline VMR impairment, atorvastatin therapy was associated with significantly improved VMR at both 3 and 6 months. This effect persisted for at least 45 days after discontinuation of therapy. Our findings indicate that high-dose atorvastatin therapy can significantly improve impaired cerebral VMR, and that the effects of atorvastatin on VMR persist for 1.5 months after discontinuation of therapy. We found no benefit of atorvastatin therapy in patients with preserved baseline vasoreactivity.

UI  - 21324888
TI  - Obesity is associated with fatal coronary heart disease independently of traditional risk factors and deprivation.
AB  - These hypothesis generating data suggest that obesity is associated with fatal, but not non-fatal, CHD after accounting for known cardiovascular risk factors and deprivation. Clinical trial registration WOSCOPS was carried out and completed before the requirement for clinical trial registration.

UI  - 21320365
TI  - Consumption of a plant sterol-based spread derived from rice bran oil is effective at reducing plasma lipid levels in mildly hypercholesterolaemic individuals.
AB  - To establish the effectiveness of a new phytosterol-containing spread derived from rice bran oil (RBO), a randomised, double-blind, cross-over human clinical trial was conducted over 12 weeks. A total of eighty mildly hypercholesterolaemic (total blood cholesterol level 5 and 75mmol/l with a serum TAG level of 45mmol/l) individuals were randomised into two groups (n 40). Group 1 consumed spread only daily for 4 weeks. They were randomised to consume 20g RBO spread (RBOS), 20g standard spread (SS) or 20g phytosterol-enriched spread (PS). After a 4-week period, individuals changed to the next randomised treatment until all three treatments had been consumed. Group 2 consumed spread plus oil daily for 4 weeks. They consumed 20g RBOS plus 30ml RBO, 20g SS plus 30ml sunflower oil or 20g RBOS. Blood samples were collected for the analysis of lipid parameters, and 3d diet records were collected. Compared with SS, RBOS significantly reduced total cholesterol by 22% (P=0045), total cholesterol:HDL by 41% (P=0005) and LDL-cholesterol by 35% (P=0016), but was not as effective overall as PS, which reduced total cholesterol by 44% (P=0001), total cholesterol:HDL by 34% (P=0014) and LDL-cholesterol by 56% (P=0001). In group 2, the addition of RBO to the RBOS produced no differences in cholesterol levels. These results confirm that RBOS is effective in lowering serum cholesterol when consumed as part of a normal diet.

UI  - 21315463
TI  - Different effects of rosuvastatin and simvastatin on myocardial high-energy phosphate metabolism.
AB  - 

UI  - 21298654
TI  - The effects of statin monotherapy and low-dose statin/ezetimibe on lipoprotein-associated phospholipase A.
AB  - Atorvastatin monotherapy was stronger at reducing plasma Lp-PLA than the low-dose atorvastatin/ezetimibe combination after equivalent LDL-C lowering. This result may provide evidence of potential statin effects beyond the lowering of LDL-C.

UI  - 21297494
TI  - Effects of prescription omega-3-acid ethyl esters on fasting lipid profile in subjects with primary hypercholesterolemia.
AB  - This double-blind, randomized crossover study investigated the effects of 6 weeks of treatment with prescription omega-3-acid ethyl esters (POM3, 4 g/day) versus placebo (soy oil) on low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) and other aspects of the fasting lipid profile in 31 men and women with primary, isolated hypercholesterolemia (LDL-C 130-220 mg/dL and triglycerides less than 150 mg/dL while free of lipid-altering therapies). Mean  standard error of the mean baseline concentrations of total cholesterol, LDL-C, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C), very-low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and triglycerides were 229  3, 146  3, 60  2, 23  2, and 113  8 mg/dL, respectively. POM3 produced a modest increase from baseline in LDL-C (3.4%) versus the placebo response (-0.7%, P = 0.010). Significant changes (P < 0.05) for POM3 (placebo-corrected) were observed for very-low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (-18.8%), triglycerides (-18.7%), and HDL-C (3.3%). Nuclear magnetic resonance-determined very-low-density lipoprotein particle concentration and size and HDL particle concentration decreased significantly more with POM3 versus placebo, whereas LDL and HDL particle sizes increased significantly more with POM3 versus placebo. Total cholesterol, non-HDL-C, apolipoproteins A1 and B, and LDL particle concentration responses did not differ between treatments. These results did not confirm the hypothesis that POM3 treatment would lower LDL-C in primary, isolated hypercholesterolemia. Effects on other variables were consistent with prior results in mixed dyslipidemia.

UI  - 21297492
TI  - The effect of ezetimibe and simvastatin on monocyte cytokine release in patients with isolated hypercholesterolemia.
AB  - Apart from reducing plasma lipids, ezetimibe may produce non-lipid-related pleiotropic effects. The aim of this article was to compare the effect of ezetimibe and simvastatin on monocyte cytokine release and systemic inflammation in isolated hypercholesterolemic patients. One hundred thirty-four subjects with isolated hypercholesterolemia were allocated to 1 of 4 treatment groups treated for 90 days with, respectively, ezetimibe, simvastatin, ezetimibe plus simvastatin, or placebo. Monocyte cytokine release was determined at baseline and after 30 and 90 days of treatment. Compared with placebo, all the remaining treatment options reduced-monocyte release of tumor necrosis factor-, interleukin-1, interleukin-6, and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1, which was accompanied by a reduction in plasma C-reactive protein levels. In subjects receiving both simvastatin and ezetimibe, posttreatment monocyte cytokine release and plasma C-reactive protein levels did not differ from those observed in 30 matched healthy subjects. Monocyte-suppressing and systemic-anti-inflammatory effects were more expressed in simvastatin- than in ezetimibe-treated patients and strongest when both the agents were administered together. The results obtained suggest that simvastatin may be a better treatment option than ezetimibe in isolated hypercholesterolemic patients and that hypercholesterolemic patients of high cardiovascular risk may benefit the most from combined treatment with simvastatin and ezetimibe.

UI  - 21273396
TI  - Trends in cardiovascular risk factor levels in the Minnesota Heart Survey (1980-2002) as compared with the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (1976-2002): A partial explanation for Minnesota's low cardiovascular disease mortality?
AB  - The authors compared trends in and levels of coronary heart disease (CHD) risk factors between the Minneapolis-St. Paul, Minnesota, metropolitan area (Twin Cities) and the entire US population to help explain the ongoing decline in US CHD mortality rates. The study populations for risk factors were adults aged 25-74 years enrolled in 2 population-based surveillance studies: the Minnesota Heart Survey (MHS) in 1980-1982, 1985-1987, 1990-1992, 1995-1997, and 2000-2002 and the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) in 1976-1980, 1988-1994, 1999-2000, and 2001-2002. The authors found a continuous decline in CHD mortality rates in the Twin Cities and nationally between 1980 and 2000. Similar decreasing rates of change in risk factors across survey years, parallel to the CHD mortality rate decline, were observed in MHS and in NHANES. Adults in MHS had generally lower levels of CHD risk factors than NHANES adults, consistent with the CHD mortality rate difference. Approximately 47% of women and 44% of men in MHS had no elevated CHD risk factors, including smoking, hypertension, high cholesterol, and obesity, versus 36% of women and 34% of men in NHANES. The better CHD risk factor profile in the Twin Cities may partly explain the lower CHD death rate there.

UI  - 21271793
TI  - The effect of simvastatin alone versus simvastatin plus ezetimibe on the concentration of small dense low-density lipoprotein cholesterol in subjects with primary hypercholesterolemia.
AB  - The combination of simvastatin 10mg plus ezetimibe 10mg is similarly effective to simvastatin 40mg in improving sdLDL-C concentration and LDL particle size in subjects with primary hypercholesterolemia.

UI  - 21270268
TI  - Reduction in basal nitric oxide activity causes albuminuria.
AB  - NOS inhibition provokes albuminuria that is unrelated to changes in blood pressure. It is noteworthy that this finding was evident in patient groups prone to endothelial dysfunction and albuminuria. Thus, acute deterioration of endothelial function by reducing NO activity causes an increase in albuminuria.

UI  - 21262998
TI  - Inhibition of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase improves nitric oxide-mediated vasodilatation and reduces inflammation in hypercholesterolemia.
AB  - Losmapimod improves nitric oxide-mediated vasodilatation in hypercholesterolemic patients, which is consistent with findings in previous translational animal models. These data support the hypothesis that attenuating the inflammatory milieu by inhibiting p38 MAPK activity improves NO activity. This suggests p38 MAPK as a novel target for patients with cardiovascular disease.

UI  - 21257028
TI  - The whey fermentation product malleable protein matrix decreases triglyceride concentrations in subjects with hypercholesterolemia: a randomized placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - Malleable protein matrix (MPM) is a unique whey-derived ingredient obtained through a fermentation process using proprietary lactic acid bacteria strains from the Lactobacillus kefiranofaciens species. Because evidence from animal models suggests that MPM decreases serum lipid concentrations, the purpose of the present trial was to assess the hypothesis that MPM exerts lipid-lowering effects in humans. A total of 161 subjects (50% male; age 54.5  9.8 yr, body mass index 26.3  3.6 kg/m(2)) with hypercholesterolemia with baseline low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) levels of 181  30 mg/dL and normal triglyceride (TG) levels (131  55 mg/dL) were randomized to receive MPM (2  15 g/d) or matching placebo. A 6-wk run-in phase was followed by a double-blind 12-wk treatment phase after randomization. The data were analyzed on an intention-to-treat basis. The primary outcome measure was the percentage change of LDL-C. The secondary outcome measures were changes in TG and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol concentrations as well as changes in other cardiovascular risk factors. After 12 wk of treatment, the relative TG decrease from baseline reached 9.8%, whereas LDL-C was slightly decreased (by 1.5%) following MPM treatment compared with placebo in the intention-to-treat cohort. The treatment effect on TG reduction was much higher in the subset of subjects having TG levels at baseline of 150 mg/dL or above (n=42), reaching 20.0% compared with placebo. High-density lipoprotein cholesterol concentrations, blood pressure, and fasting blood glucose remained unchanged, whereas a positive treatment effect was seen on hemoglobin A(1c). The MPM product was tolerated well without severe adverse events. In conclusion, MPM has significant TG-lowering properties in subjects with combined hypercholesterolemia and higher TG levels. Its effects on LDL-C concentrations and glucose metabolism deserve further investigation.

UI  - 21246853
TI  - [Effects of different time parameters on hypercholesterolemia treated with mild moxibustion].
AB  - The interval time of mild moxibustion is the chief factor of the efficacy on hypercholesterolemia. The optimum treatment program is mild moxibustion, 10 min on each point, once every other day and lasting 6 weeks.

UI  - 21244474
TI  - Distinct effects of pitavastatin and atorvastatin on lipoprotein subclasses in patients with Type 2 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - The impact on lipoprotein subclass profiles was different between pitavastatin and atorvastatin. It may be beneficial to determine lipoprotein subclass profile and select the appropriate statin for each profile in patients with diabetes with an additional cardiovascular risk such as low HDL cholesterol or hypertriglyceridaemia.

UI  - 21234859
TI  - Effects of vitamin E on plasma lipid status and oxidative stress in Chinese women with metabolic syndrome.
AB  - Following the change of dietary structure and living style, metabolic syndrome (MetS) has become increasingly common in China, especially in women, who have abnormal plasma lipid profiles with increased levels of oxidative stress. Vitamin E (VitE) is a powerful chain-breaking antioxidant, which may be a protective factor against oxidative stress-related diseases. This study investigated the effects of three different dosages of tocopherol supplementation (100 IU /day, 200 IU /day, 300 IU /day) for 4 months in Chinese women with MetS. The plasma VitE concentrations increased significantly after the 4 months of supplementation (p < 0.01). The protective decreases in plasma total cholesterol were significant in 200 IU/day and 300 IU/day VitE groups (p < 0.05), but decreases in high-density lipoprotein cholesterol were also significant in all the supplementation groups (p < 0.05). Plasma triglycerides were unaltered (p > 0.05). The indicators of oxidative stress decreased substantially in all of the VitE supplementation groups: malondialdehyde (MDA) was reduced by nearly 50 percent (all groups, p < 0.001), erythrocyte hemolysis was decreased by nearly 40 percent (all groups, p < 0.05); among which the 300IU/day VitE group showed the most significant effect. However, the activity of superoxide dismutase (SOD) decreased after the trial (p < 0.001). VitE provided marked benefits in reducing oxidative stress levels and improving lipid status in women with MetS. Although no dose-effect relationship was observed, 300 IU VitE per day showed the optimal effect. Research is needed to identify potential protective mechanisms or utilization of vitamin E during MetS.

UI  - 21215605
TI  - The effect of high-fiber rye bread enriched with nonesterified plant sterols on major serum lipids and apolipoproteins in normocholesterolemic individuals.
AB  - Rye bread enriched with 2-4g/d of nonesterified plant sterols beneficially modifies cardiovascular lipid risk factors in normocholesterolemic subjects compared to controls.

UI  - 21198725
TI  - Inhibition of intestinal cholesterol absorption might explain cholesterol-lowering effect of telmisartan.
AB  - Our results suggest that the cholesterol-lowering effect of telmisartan might be caused by inhibition of cholesterol absorption, whereas that of statins is by inhibition of cholesterol synthesis. If confirmed, co-treatment with the two agents may be useful for synergistically lowering cholesterol in hypertensive patients.

UI  - 21157106
TI  - Comparison of effects of rosuvastatin and atorvastatin on plaque regression in Korean patients with untreated intermediate coronary stenosis.
AB  - Moderate doses of rosuvastatin and atorvastatin could contribute to effective plaque regression. Follow-up LDL-C and baseline hs-CRP are associated with plaque progression in patients with intermediate coronary stenosis.

UI  - 21131223
TI  - Effect of atorvastatin on lipoprotein (a) and interleukin-10: a randomized placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - Our results suggest that 12-week atorvastatin is effective in reducing Lp(a) in dyslipidaemic patients free of CVD. Furthermore, this is also the first evidence that the drug increases IL-10 in a dose-dependent manner.

UI  - 21122856
TI  - Effects of long term plant sterol and -stanol consumption on the retinal vasculature: a randomized controlled trial in statin users.
AB  - As sitosterolemic patients have an increased cardiovascular risk, there is concern that reducing serum LDL-cholesterol concentrations by plant sterols enriched functional foods might adversely affect vascular function. Whether increased concentrations of plant sterols truly affect vascular function and whether these effects are exclusive to the larger vessels remains unknown. We compared the effects of long-term plant sterol and -stanol consumption on changes in retinal vessels diameter which reflex alterations in the microcirculation. Three randomized groups were studied at baseline and after 85-weeks. Group one (N=11) consumed plant sterol enriched margarine (2.5g/day), the second (N=8) plant stanol enriched margarine (2.5g/day), and the control group (N=11) non-enriched margarine (2.5g/day). Serum cholesterol-standardized campesterol and sitosterol concentrations increased by 354.84168.22102mol/mmol and 84.3648.26102mol/mmol (p<0.001), respectively in the sterol group, while decreasing non-significantly in the plant stanol group. Serum LDL-cholesterol concentrations decreased significantly in both the plant sterol (-0.330.33mmol/L, p=0.016) and -stanol groups (-0.380.34mmol/L, p=0.018) compared to the increase in the controls (0.290.34mmol/L). The mean change in venular diameters for the plant sterol group (2.33.1m), plant stanol groups (-0.83.4m) and control group (-0.85.1m) did not reach significance but the change in cholesterol-standardized campesterol concentrations correlated positively with the change in venular diameter independent of changes in serum LDL-cholesterol concentrations (r=0.39, N=30, p=0.033). Increased serum campesterol concentration correlated positively with increased retinal venular diameter, independent from changes in serum LDL-cholesterol concentrations. This may constitute an explanation for the suggested effects of plant sterols on vascular function. However, this novel finding needs confirmation and further study.

UI  - 21122701
TI  - Effects of soy protein on lipoprotein lipids and fecal bile acid excretion in men and women with moderate hypercholesterolemia.
AB  - These results confirm that SP consumption exerts a hypocholesterolemic effect and indicate that TMP elicits a less pronounced response. However, these findings do not support the hypothesis that increased bile acid excretion is an important contributor to the hypocholesterolemic effects of either protein source.

UI  - 21122660
TI  - Ezetimibe/simvastatin 10/20 mg versus simvastatin 40 mg in coronary heart disease patients.
AB  - NCT00423579).

UI  - 21095484
TI  - Efficacy and tolerability of a generic and a branded formulation of atorvastatin 20 mg/d in hypercholesterolemic Korean adults at high risk for cardiovascular disease: a multicenter, prospective, randomized, double-blind, double-dummy clinical trial.
AB  - After 8 weeks of treatment, the differences in the LDL-C-lowering effects between the generic and branded formulations of atorvastatin 20 mg/d did not reach statistical significance in these Korean patients at high risk for cardiovascular events. Both formulations were generally well tolerated.

UI  - 21095021
TI  - Effects of simvastatin therapy on circulating adipocytokines in patients with hypercholesterolemia.
AB  - 

UI  - 21067805
TI  - Intensive lowering of LDL cholesterol with 80 mg versus 20 mg simvastatin daily in 12,064 survivors of myocardial infarction: a double-blind randomised trial.
AB  - Merck; The Clinical Trial Service Unit also receives funding from the UK Medical Research Council and the British Heart Foundation.

UI  - 21056418
TI  - Effects of atorvastatin and rosuvastatin on thromboxane-dependent platelet activation and oxidative stress in hypercholesterolemia.
AB  - Both atorvastatin and rosuvastatin cause comparable reductions of thromboxane-dependent platelet activation, lipid peroxidation and inflammation. The presence of 3'UTR/LOX-1 polymorphism does not affect the changes induced by either statin.

UI  - 21056284
TI  - Orange juice decreases low-density lipoprotein cholesterol in hypercholesterolemic subjects and improves lipid transfer to high-density lipoprotein in normal and hypercholesterolemic subjects.
AB  - Orange juice (OJ) is regularly consumed worldwide, but its effects on plasma lipids have rarely been explored. This study hypothesized that consumption of OJ concentrate would improve lipid levels and lipid metabolism, which are important in high-density lipoprotein (HDL) function in normolipidemic (NC) and hypercholesterolemic (HCH) subjects. Fourteen HCH and 31 NC adults consumed 750 mL/day OJ concentrate (1:6 OJ/water) for 60 days. Eight control subjects did not consume OJ for 60 days. Plasma was collected before and on the last day for biochemical analysis and an in vitro assay of transfers of radioactively labeled free-cholesterol, cholesteryl esters, phospholipids, and triglycerides from lipoprotein-like nanoemulsions to HDL. Orange juice consumption decreased low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (160  17 to 141  26 mg/dL, P < .01) in the HCH group but not in the NC group. HDL-cholesterol and triglycerides remained unchanged in both groups. Free-cholesterol transfer to HDL increased (HCH: 4.4  2 to 5.6  1%, NC: 3.2  2 to 6.2  1%, P< .05) whereas triglyceride (HCH 4.9  1 to 3.1  1%, NC 4.4  1 to 3.4  1%, P< .05) and phospholipid (HCH 21.6  2 to 18.6  3%, NC 20.2  2 to 18.4  2%, P < .05) transfers decreased in both groups. Cholesteryl-ester transfer decreased only in HCH (3.6  1 to 3.1  1%, P < .05), but not in NC. In control subjects, plasma lipids and transfers were unaltered for 60 days. Thus, by decreasing atherogenic low-density lipoprotein cholesterol in HCH and increasing HDL ability to take up free cholesterol in HCH and NC, OJ may be beneficial to both groups as free-cholesterol transfer to HDL is crucial for cholesterol esterification and reverse cholesterol transport.

UI  - 21050476
TI  - Ezetimibe/simvastatin 10/20 mg versus rosuvastatin 10 mg in high-risk hypercholesterolemic patients stratified by prior statin treatment potency.
AB  - Registered at ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT00479713.

UI  - 21048770
TI  - Serum lipid responses to phytosterol-enriched milk in a moderate hypercholesterolemic population is not affected by apolipoprotein E polymorphism or diameter of low-density lipoprotein particles.
AB  - The results of this study show that Apo E genotype does not have an impact on the lipid response to PS as a cholesterol-lowering agent in mild-hypercholesterolemic patients. Furthermore, the evidence obtained confirms that LDLc particle size is not modified when PS are added to a standard healthy diet.

UI  - 21048536
TI  - Early steroid-free immunosuppression with FK506 after liver transplantation: long-term results of a prospectively randomized double-blinded trial.
AB  - Early tapering down of steroids to a tacrolimus monotherapy is possible with comparable acute rejection rates. During steroid therapy, PTDM and hypercholesterolemia are cumulative. These side effects are reversible. The recirrhosis in HCV patients is not influenced by continuous steroid therapy but more frequent in HCV patients receiving a steroid bolus therapy.

UI  - 21047146
TI  - Biomarker assessment of the immunomodulator effect of atorvastatin in stable renal transplant recipients and hypercholesterolemic patients.
AB  - Atorvastatin showed immunoregulatory effects on T cells in hypercholesterolemic patients. These effects were absent in renal transplant recipients, suggesting that the beneficial effects of atorvastatin in this patient group do not relate to immunoregulation. Therefore, statin treatment cannot be considered as a means to reduce the dose of immunosuppressive agents.

UI  - 21041432
TI  - Adding monounsaturated fatty acids to a dietary portfolio of cholesterol-lowering foods in hypercholesterolemia.
AB  - Monounsaturated fat increased the effectiveness of a cholesterol-lowering dietary portfolio, despite statin-like reductions in LDL cholesterol. The potential benefits for cardiovascular risk were achieved through increases in HDL cholesterol, further reductions in the ratio of total to HDL cholesterol and reductions in C-reactive protein. (ClinicalTrials.gov trial register no. NCT00430430.).

UI  - 21029821
TI  - Safety and efficacy of ezetimibe/simvastatin combination versus atorvastatin alone in adults 65 years of age with hypercholesterolemia and with or at moderately high/high risk for coronary heart disease (the VYTELD study).
AB  - Higher than 80% of coronary heart disease-related mortality occurs in patients 65 years of age. Guidelines recommend low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol targets for these at-risk patients; however, few clinical studies have evaluated lipid-lowering strategies specifically in older adults. This multicenter, 12-week, randomized, double-blind, parallel-group trial evaluated the efficacy and safety of the usual starting dose of ezetimibe/simvastatin (10/20 mg) versus atorvastatin 10 or 20 mg and the next higher dose of ezetimibe/simvastatin (10/40 mg) versus atorvastatin 40 mg in 1,289 hypercholesterolemic patients 65 years of age with or without cardiovascular disease. Patients randomized to ezetimibe/simvastatin had greater percent decreases in LDL cholesterol (-54.2% for 10/20 mg vs -39.5% and -46.6% for atorvastatin 10 and 20 mg, respectively; -59.1% for 10/40 mg vs -50.8% for atorvastatin 40 mg; p <0.001 for all comparisons) and the number attaining LDL cholesterol <70 mg/dl (51.3% for 10/20 mg, 68.2% for 10/40 mg) and <100 mg/dl (83.6% for 10/20 mg; 90.3% for 10/40 mg) was significantly larger compared to those receiving atorvastatin for all prespecified dose comparisons (p <0.05 to <0.001). A significantly larger percentage of high-risk patients achieved LDL cholesterol <70 mg/dl on ezetimibe/simvastatin 10/20 mg (54.3%) versus atorvastatin 10 mg (10.9%, p <0.001) or 20 mg (28.9%, p <0.001) and ezetimibe/simvastatin 10/40 mg (69.2%) versus atorvastatin 40 mg (38.2%, p <0.001), and a significantly larger percentage of intermediate-risk patients achieved LDL cholesterol <100 mg/dl on ezetimibe/simvastatin 10/20 mg (82.1%) versus atorvastatin 10 mg (59.3%, p <0.05). Improvements in non-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, total cholesterol, apolipoprotein B, and lipoprotein ratios were significantly greater with ezetimibe/simvastatin than atorvastatin for all comparisons (p <0.01 to <0.001). High-density lipoprotein cholesterol and triglyceride results were variable. All treatments were generally well tolerated. In conclusion, ezetimibe/simvastatin provided significantly greater improvements in key lipid parameters and higher attainment of LDL cholesterol targets than atorvastatin, with comparable tolerability.

UI  - 21028996
TI  - Pitavastatin further decreases serum high-sensitive C-reactive protein levels in hypertensive patients with hypercholesterolemia treated with angiotensin II, type-1 receptor antagonists.
AB  - Lipid-lowering therapy with a statin not only powerfully lowers cholesterol but also exerts anti-inflammatory effects by decreasing serum C-reactive protein (CRP). Since an angiotensin II, type-1 receptor antagonist (ARB) also decreases CRP levels, the add-on effect of statins on CRP may be worth exploring. We determined the effect of pitavastatin on serum levels of highly sensitive CRP (hs-CRP) in 30 patients with hypercholesterolemia undergoing treatment with anti-hypertensive medication including ARBs. Pitavastatin, 2 mg daily, was given. The control group consisted of hypertensive patients without hyperlipidemia. The low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C), and hs-CRP were measured at baseline, 1, 3, 6, and 12 months after treatment. For the atherosclerotic index, LDL-C/HDL-C ratios at 12 months were calculated. The LDL-C level was markedly reduced at 1 month and thereafter. The baseline level of hs-CRP in the hyperlipidemia group was significantly higher than that in the control group (1.647  0.210 mg/L vs. 0.666  0.097 mg/L p < 0.0001). After 3 months, the percentage of reduction of hs-CRP was significantly higher than that in the control group. The absolute values of hs-CRP were significantly decreased to a level similar to the control group, and the hs-CRP in both groups was remained at the same level for 12 months. Although the LDL-C/HDL-C ratios of the pitavastatin group was significantly reduced from 3.3 to 1.8, those of the control group were not changed. In conclusion, pitavastatin was found to have powerful anti-inflammatory, add-on effects over the similar effects of ARB as assessed by hs-CRP.

UI  - 20977482
TI  - Low-density lipoprotein apheresis reduces platelet factor 4 on the surface of platelets: a possible protective mechanism against heparin-induced thrombocytopenia and thrombosis.
AB  - We have demonstrated that LDL apheresis via dextran sulfate absorption removes plasma PF4 and reduces the amount of PF4 on the surface of circulating PLTs. Reduced surface PF4 may decrease antibody formation and/or recognition by HITT antibodies. These data provide a potential explanation for the near lack of HITT in hypercholesterolemic patients undergoing LDL apheresis. They also suggest the possibility that LDL apheresis using dextran sulfate adsorption may have therapeutic value in the treatment of HITT.

UI  - 20965319
TI  - Lactobacillus gasseri [corrected] CHO-220 and inulin reduced plasma total cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol via alteration of lipid transporters.
AB  - This randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, and parallel-designed study was conducted to investigate the effect of a synbiotic product containing Lactobacillus gasseri [corrected] CHO-220 and inulin on lipid profiles of hypercholesterolemic men and women. Thirty-two hypercholesterolemic men and women with initial mean plasma cholesterol levels of 5.70.32 mmol/L were recruited for the 12-wk study. The subjects were randomly allocated to 2 groups; namely the treatment group (synbiotic product) and the control group (placebo), and each received 4 capsules of synbiotic or placebo daily. Our results showed that the mean body weight, energy, and nutrient intake of the subjects did not differ between the 2 groups over the study period. The supplementation of synbiotic reduced plasma total cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein (LDL)-cholesterol by 7.84 and 9.27%, respectively, compared with the control over 12 wk. Lipoproteins were subsequently subfractionated and characterized. The synbiotic supplementation resulted in a lower concentration of triglycerides in the very low, intermediate, low, and high-density lipoprotein particles compared with the control over 12 wk. The concentration of triglycerides in lipoproteins is positively correlated with an increased risk of atherosclerosis. Our results showed that the synbiotic might exhibit an atheropreventive characteristic. Cholesteryl ester (CE) in the high-density lipoprotein particles of the synbiotic group was also higher compared with the control, indicating greater transport of cholesterol in the form of CE to the liver for hydrolysis. This may have led to the reduced plasma total cholesterol level of the synbiotic group. The supplementation of synbiotic also reduced the concentration of CE in the LDL particles compared with the control, leading to the formation of smaller and denser particles that are more easily removed from blood. This supported the reduced LDL-cholesterol level of the synbiotic group compared with the control. Our present study showed that the synbiotic product improved plasma total- and LDL-cholesterol levels by modifying the interconnected pathways of lipid transporters. In addition, although Lactobacillus gasseri [corrected] CHO-220 could deconjugate bile, our results showed a statistically insignificant difference in the levels of conjugated, deconjugated, primary, and secondary bile acids between the synbiotic and control groups over 12 wk, indicating safety from bile-related toxicity.

UI  - 20964740
TI  - Effects of a healthy Nordic diet on cardiovascular risk factors in hypercholesterolaemic subjects: a randomized controlled trial (NORDIET).
AB  - a healthy ND improves blood lipid profile and insulin sensitivity and lowers blood pressure at clinically relevant levels in hypercholesterolaemic subjects.

UI  - 20956490
TI  - Gender differences in the implementation of cardiovascular prevention measures after an acute coronary event.
AB  - The EUROASPIRE III results show that despite similarities in medication exposure, women are less likely than men to achieve BP, LDL-cholesterol and HbA1c targets after a coronary event. This gap did not appear to narrow between 1994 and 2007.

UI  - 20940516
TI  - Pitavastatin reduces elevated IL-18 levels in Japanese subjects with hypercholesterolemia: sub-analysis of Kansai investigation of statin for hyperlipidemic intervention in metabolism and endocrinology (KISHIMEN).
AB  - Pitavastatin significantly improves lipid profiles, and reduces enhanced inflammation monitored by IL-18, as well as by hs-CRP, in hypercholesterolemic subjects.

UI  - 20879476
TI  - [Cardiovascular Epidemiologic Observatory: temporal trends of cardiovascular risk factors].
AB  - 

UI  - 20877394
TI  - Effects of different forms of hazelnuts on blood lipids and -tocopherol concentrations in mildly hypercholesterolemic individuals.
AB  - The ingestion of three different forms of hazelnuts equally improved the lipoprotein profile and -tocopherol concentrations in mildly hypercholesterolemic individuals. Hazelnuts can therefore be incorporated into the usual diet as a means of reducing cardiovascular disease risk.

UI  - 20875216
TI  - High-oleic rapeseed (canola) and flaxseed oils modulate serum lipids and inflammatory biomarkers in hypercholesterolaemic subjects.
AB  - Recently, novel dietary oils with modified fatty acid profiles have been manufactured to improve fatty acid intakes and reduce CVD risk. Our objective was to evaluate the efficacy of novel high-oleic rapeseed (canola) oil (HOCO), alone or blended with flaxseed oil (FXCO), on circulating lipids and inflammatory biomarkers v. a typical Western diet (WD). Using a randomised, controlled, crossover trial, thirty-six hypercholesterolaemic subjects consumed three isoenergetic diets for 28 d each containing approximately 36% energy from fat, of which 70% was provided by HOCO, FXCO or WD. Dietary fat content of SFA, MUFA, PUFA n-6 and n-3 was 6, 23, 5, 1% energy for HOCO; 6, 16, 5, 75% energy for FXCO; 115, 16, 6, 05% energy for WD. After 28 d, compared with WD, LDL-cholesterol was reduced 151% (P < 0001) with FXCO and 74% (P < 0001) with HOCO. Total cholesterol (TC) was reduced 11% (P < 0001) with FXCO and 35% (P = 0002) with HOCO compared with WD. Endpoint TC differed between FXCO and HOCO (P < 005). FXCO consumption reduced HDL-cholesterol by 85% (P < 0001) and LDL:HDL ratio by 75% (P = 0008) v. WD. FXCO significantly decreased E-selectin concentration compared with WD (P = 002). No differences were observed in inflammatory markers after the consumption of HOCO compared with WD. In conclusion, consumption of novel HOCO alone or when blended with flaxseed oil is cardioprotective through lipid-lowering effects. The incorporation of flaxseed oil may also target inflammation by reducing plasma E-selectin.

UI  - 20860820
TI  - The RISAP-study: a complex intervention in risk communication and shared decision-making in general practice.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov Protocol Registration System NCT01187056.

UI  - 20860413
TI  - A 50-week extension study on the safety and efficacy of colesevelam in adults with primary hypercholesterolemia.
AB  - In this study, colesevelam was found to be safe and effective for the management of LDL-C levels in adults with primary hypercholesterolemia.

UI  - 20857893
TI  - Simvastatin and asymmetric dimethylarginine-homocysteine metabolic pathways in patients with newly detected severe hypercholesterolemia.
AB  - Optimizing the target values of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol to the moderate dose (40 mg) of simvastatin has no effect on asymmetric dimethylarginine and total homocysteine in contrast to high dose (80 mg) after targeted LDL of < or = 2.6 mmol/L levels are reached in patients with newly detected severe hypercholesterolemia.

UI  - 20854987
TI  - A synbiotic containing Lactobacillus gasseri [corrected] CHO-220 and inulin improves irregularity of red blood cells.
AB  - This randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, and parallel-design study was conducted to investigate the effect of a synbiotic product containing Lactobacillus gasseri [corrected] CHO-220 and inulin on the irregularity in shape of red blood cells (RBC) in hypercholesterolemic subjects. The subjects (n=32) were randomly allocated to 2 groups, a treatment group (synbiotic product) and a control group (placebo), and received 4 capsules of either synbiotic or placebo daily for 12 wk. Morphological representation via scanning electron microscopy showed that the occurrence of spur RBC was improved upon supplementation of the synbiotic. In addition, the supplementation of synbiotic reduced the cholesterol:phospholipids ratio of the RBC membrane by 47.02% over 12 wk, whereas the control showed insignificant changes. Our present study also showed that supplementation of the synbiotic reduced the concentration of saturated fatty acids (SFA), increased unsaturated fatty acids (UFA), and increased the ratio of UFA:SFA over 12 wk, whereas the control showed inconspicuous changes. The alteration of RBC membrane was assessed using fluorescence anisotropy (FAn) and fluorescence probes with different affinities for varying sections of the membrane phospholipid bilayer. A noticeable decrease in FAn of three fluorescent probes was observed in the synbiotic group compared with the control over 12 wk, indicative of increased membrane fluidity and reduced cholesterol enrichment in the RBC membrane.

UI  - 20846602
TI  - Association of combinations of lipid parameters with carotid intima-media thickness and coronary artery calcium in the MESA (Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis).
AB  - Combined hyperlipidemia and simple hypercholesterolemia were associated with increased CIMT and prevalent CAC in a relatively healthy multiethnic population.

UI  - 20837464
TI  - Effects of internet-based tailored advice on the use of cholesterol-lowering interventions: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - NCT00220974; http://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT00220974 (Archived by WebCite at http://www.webcitation.org/5sdq63rrY).

UI  - 20837371
TI  - Influence of age, gender, and race on the efficacy of adding ezetimibe to atorvastatin vs. atorvastatin up-titration in patients at moderately high or high risk for coronary heart disease.
AB  - Treatment efficacy in age, gender, and race subgroups did not substantially differ from the entire study population. Ezetimibe combined with atorvastatin generally produced greater incremental reductions in LDL cholesterol and several other key lipid parameters compared with doubling the atorvastatin dose in hypercholesterolemic patients with high or moderately high CHD risk. These results suggest that co-administration of ezetimibe with statins is a useful therapeutic option for treatment of dyslipidemia in differing patient populations.

UI  - 20832062
TI  - Atorvastatin inhibits oxidative stress via adiponectin-mediated NADPH oxidase down-regulation in hypercholesterolemic patients.
AB  - This study provides the first evidence that in patients higher APN serum levels are associated with gp91(phox) down-regulation. APN-mediated gp91(phox) reduction could be one of the mechanisms involved in atorvastatin's antioxidant effect.

UI  - 20807459
TI  - Whole and fractionated yellow pea flours reduce fasting insulin and insulin resistance in hypercholesterolaemic and overweight human subjects.
AB  - The objective of the present study was to compare whole pea flour (WPF) to fractionated pea flour (FPF; hulls only) for their ability to reduce risk factors associated with CVD and diabetes in overweight hypercholesterolaemic individuals. Using a cross-over design, twenty-three hypercholesterolaemic overweight men and women received two-treatment muffins/d containing WPF, FPF or white wheat flour (WF) for 28 d, followed by 28 d washout periods. Daily doses of WPF and FPF complied with the United States Department of Agriculture's recommended level of intake of half a cup of pulses/d (approximately 50 g/d). Dietary energy requirements were calculated for each study subject, and volunteers were only permitted to eat food supplied by the study personnel. Fasting insulin, body composition, urinary enterolactone levels, postprandial glucose response, as well as fasting lipid and glucose concentrations, were assessed at the beginning and at the end of each treatment. Insulin concentrations for WPF (378 (SEM 34) pmol/ml, P = 0021) and FPF (405 (SEM 34) pmol/ml, P = 0037) were lower compared with WF (507 (SEM 34) pmol/ml). Insulin homeostasis modelling assessment showed that consumption of WPF and FPF decreased (P < 005) estimates of insulin resistance (IR) compared with WF. Android:gynoid fat ratios in women participants were lower (P = 0027) in the WPF (101 (sem 001) group compared with the WF group (106 (SEM 001). Urinary enterolactone levels tended to be higher (P = 0087) in WPF compared with WF. Neither treatment altered circulating fasting lipids or glucose concentrations. In conclusion, under a controlled diet paradigm, a daily consumption of whole and fractionated yellow pea flours at doses equivalent to half a cup of yellow peas/d reduced IR, while WPF reduced android adiposity in women.

UI  - 20797475
TI  - Flaxseed lignan lowers blood cholesterol and decreases liver disease risk factors in moderately hypercholesterolemic men.
AB  - The effects of flaxseed lignan (secoisolariciresinol diglucoside [SDG]) intake on hypercholesterolemia and liver disease risk factors in moderately hypercholesterolemic men were investigated. In a previous study, we reported that SDG attenuates high-fat, diet-induced hypercholesterolemia in mice. Here, we report a double-blinded, randomized, and placebo-controlled study in moderately hypercholesterolemic men in which we investigated the hypothesis that oral administration of SDG (20 or 100 mg) would decrease the level of blood cholesterol and liver disease risk factors induced by hypercholesterolemia in humans. Thirty men with total cholesterol levels of 4.65 to 6.21 mmol/L (180-240 mg/dL) were randomly assigned to 3 groups; 2 groups received flaxseed lignan capsules (SDG, 20 or 100 mg/d) and the other received placebo capsules for 12 weeks. We found that, compared to the subjects who received placebo, those who received 100 mg of SDG exhibited a significant reduction in the ratio of low-density lipoprotein/high-density lipoprotein cholesterol at baseline (P < .05) and at week 12 (P < .05). In addition, in SDG-treated subjects, we also observed a significant percentage decrease in the levels of glutamic pyruvic transaminase and gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase relative to the levels at baseline (P < .01) and a significant percentage decrease in the level of gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase relative to the placebo-treated group (P < .05). These results suggest that daily administration of 100 mg SDG can be effective at reducing blood level of cholesterol and hepatic diseases risk in moderately hypercholesterolemic men.

UI  - 20733267
TI  - Lipid-lowering effects of ezetimibe for hypercholesterolemic patients with and without type 2 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - To date, there are very few clinical reports that have compared the effects of ezetimibe on lipid parameters between hypercholesterolemic patients with and without type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). In this study, we recruited patients for hypercholesterolemic groups with T2DM (n = 42; men/women = 24/18; HbA1c = 6.7  5.4%) and without T2DM (n = 21; men/women = 7/14; HbA1c = 5.3  0.4%). Patients were prescribed ezetimibe at a dose of 10 mg/daily for the course of the 12-week study. At baseline and after 12 weeks of treatment, several lipid parameters, including serum low-density-lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), non-high-density-lipoprotein cholesterol (non-HDL-C), high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP), and cholesterol synthesis/absorption-related markers, were measured. Compared with those at the baseline, the levels of LDL-C, non-HDL-C, campesterol, and sitosterol were significantly reduced after 12 weeks of ezetimibe treatment in both groups. After adjusting for confounding factors, such as age, gender, smoking, and BMI, the levels of LDL-C and non-HDL-C displayed significantly greater reductions in the patients with T2DM (-25.1  13.6% in LDL-C, -20.5  11.2% in non-HDL-C) than those without T2DM (-20.5  7.8% in LDL-C, P < 0.05; -17.4  7.6% in non-HDL-C, P < 0.05). The reduction of the level of cholestanol was significantly and positively correlated with those of LDL-C and non-HDL-C in the patients with T2DM. Taken together, these findings indicate that ezetimibe could reduce the levels of atherogenic lipoproteins to a greater extent in hypercholesterolemic patients with T2DM than in those without T2DM.

UI  - 20729742
TI  - Serum lipids in European chronic HCV genotype 1 patients during and after treatment with pegylated interferon--2a and ribavirin.
AB  - Our study reports a substantial pretreatment hypocholesterolemia in European HCV genotype 1 patients with nonresponse to interferon--based therapy and lower pretreatment cholesterol levels were an independent predictor of not attaining SVR. After treatment-induced HCV eradication median cholesterol levels increased above baseline, but the proportion of patients with high-risk cholesterol levels remained relatively low.

UI  - 20718814
TI  - Short-term treatment with high-dose atorvastatin reduces LDL cholesterol but shows no anti-inflammatory effects in normolipidemic subjects with normal CRP levels.
AB  - The benefit in reducing cardiovascular risk with statins has been attributed both to cholesterol lowering and pleiotropic effects. These pleiotropic effects are thought to include attenuation of the inflammatory response due to reduced prenylation of proteins in the inflammatory cascade. We conducted studies in normolipidemic subjects to determine if treatment with high-dose (80 mg) atorvastatin could reduce circulating levels of inflammatory markers. We also determined whether high-dose atorvastatin affected the inflammatory response of monocytes stimulated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) ex vivo. We found that treatment with atorvastatin rapidly and significantly reduced plasma low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol levels in subjects treated for 2 weeks. However, statin treatment had no discernible effect on plasma levels of the inflammatory markers high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP), tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, or interleukin (IL-6) and no effect on the cytokine response of monocytes following ex vivo stimulation with LPS. High-dose atorvastatin treatment of normolipidemic subjects with normal C-reactive protein levels has no effect on the inflammatory response assessed by monocyte stimulation with LPS ex vivo despite significant reductions in LDL cholesterol levels.

UI  - 20716520
TI  - Fasting reduces plasma proprotein convertase, subtilisin/kexin type 9 and cholesterol biosynthesis in humans.
AB  - Proprotein convertase, subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9), a key regulator of plasma LDL-cholesterol (LDL-c) and cardiovascular risk, is produced in liver and secreted into plasma where it binds hepatic LDL receptors (LDLR), leading to their degradation. PCSK9 is transcriptionally activated by sterol response element-binding protein (SREBP)-2, a transcription factor that also activates all genes for cholesterol synthesis as well as the LDLR. Here we investigated the relationship between plasma PCSK9 levels and the lathosterol-to-cholesterol ratio, a marker of cholesterol biosynthesis, in 18 healthy subjects during a 48 h fast. In all individuals, plasma PCSK9 levels declined steadily during the fasting period, reaching a nadir at 36 h that was 58% lower than levels measured in the fed state (P < 0.001). Similarly, the lathosterol-to-cholesterol ratio declined in parallel with plasma PCSK9 concentrations during the fast, reaching a nadir at 36 h that was 28% lower than that measured in the fed state (P = 0.024). In summary, fasting has a marked effect on plasma PCSK9 concentrations, which is mirrored by measures of cholesterol synthesis in humans. Inasmuch as cholesterol synthesis and PCSK9 are both regulated by SREBP-2, these results suggest that plasma PCSK9 levels may serve as a surrogate marker of hepatic SREBP-2 activity in humans.

UI  - 20702792
TI  - Cardiovascular risk factors associated with lower baseline cognitive performance in HIV-positive persons.
AB  - In this HIV-positive population with high CD4 cell counts, neurocognitive impairment was associated with prior CVD. Lower neurocognitive performance was associated with prior CVD, hypertension, and hypercholesterolemia, but not conventional HAD risk factors. The contribution of CVD and cardiovascular risk factors to the neurocognition of HIV-positive populations warrants further investigation.

UI  - 20693157
TI  - Lifibrol as a model compound for a novel lipid-lowering mechanism of action.
AB  - Lifibrol is a potent lipid-lowering drug with an unknown mechanism of action. We investigated its effects on lipoprotein and sterol metabolism in normocholesterolemic male participants. Seven participants were treated for 4 weeks with 600 mg/d lifibrol and 9 with 40 mg/d pravastatin in a double-blind randomized parallel-group trial. Kinetic studies were performed at baseline and under acute and chronic treatment. Turnover of apolipoprotein B-100 was investigated with endogenous stable-isotope labeling, and kinetic parameters were derived by multicompartmental modeling. Lathosterol and cholesterol metabolism were investigated using mass isotopomer distribution analysis (MIDA) after [1-(13)C]acetate labeling. Carbon metabolism was investigated by calculating the total isotope incorporation into newly formed sterols and measuring the disposal of acetate by (13)CO(2) breath analysis. Total- and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol decreased by 18% and 27% under lifibrol and by 17% and 28% under pravastatin, respectively, whereas very-low-density lipoprotein (VLDL) cholesterol, triglycerides, and high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol did not change. Very-low-density lipoprotein apoB fractional synthesis and production increased under lifibrol but remained unchanged under pravastatin. Low-density lipoprotein apoB fractional synthesis and production increased under pravastatin but remained unchanged under lifibrol. Mass isotopomer distribution analysis indicated that both drugs decrease endogenous sterol synthesis after acute administration, but pravastatin had more powerful effects. Carbon-13 appearance in breath was higher during pravastatin than during lifibrol treatment. Mass isotopomer distribution analysis and carbon metabolism analysis indicated compartmentalization at the site of sterol synthesis, thus suggesting differential effects of the 2 drugs. Although having comparable lipid-lowering properties, lifibrol seems to have a mechanism of action distinct from that of statins. Lifibrol could serve as a model compound for the development of new lipid-lowering agents.

UI  - 20683465
TI  - The regular consumption of a polyphenol-rich apple does not influence endothelial function: a randomised double-blind trial in hypercholesterolemic adults.
AB  - These data suggest that over a 4-week period, the consumption of a polyphenol-rich apple does not improve vascular function in hypercholesterolemic patients.

UI  - 20678906
TI  - Effects of simvastatin on carotenoid status in plasma.
AB  - To summarize, the change in carotenoid status during simvastatin therapy was mainly attributed to the lowering of cholesterol and not to the suppression of inflammatory activity. After adjustment for lipids, the levels of lutein, lycopene, -carotene and -carotene were significantly increased by simvastatin suggesting an increased ratio of carotenoids per particle.

UI  - 20668455
TI  - Simvastatin reduces sympathetic activity in men with hypertension and hypercholesterolemia.
AB  - Beyond their hypolipidemic effect, statins reduce cardiovascular risk in hypertensive subjects via various mechanisms; one suggested mechanism is that they reduce sympathetic activity. We investigated the hypothesis that simvastatin decreased muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) in 31 hypertensive subjects with hypercholesterolemia (aged 38.7  10 years). In this randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blinded study, patients were treated with simvastatin (40mgday(-1); n=15) or placebo (n=16) for 8 weeks. Before and after treatment, we measured MSNA, blood pressure and heart rate. Baroreceptor control of the heart rate, or baroreceptor sensitivity (BRS), was computed by the sequence method, a cross-analysis of systolic blood pressure and the electrocardiogram R-R interval. Blood samples were tested for plasma levels of catecholamines, neuropeptide Y, aldosterone, endothelin and renin activity. Simvastatin significantly reduced MSNA (from 36.5  5 to 27.8  6 bursts per min, P=0.001), heart rate (from 77  6.7 to 71  6.1 beats per min, P=0.01) and both total and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (from 249  30.6 to 184  28.3mgdl(-1), P=0.001 and from 169  30.6 to 117  31.2mgdl(-1), P=0.01, respectively). Simvastatin also improved BRS (from 10.3  4.1 to 17.1  4.3ms per mmHg, P=0.04). No changes were observed in systolic or diastolic blood pressures, or in plasma levels of catecholamines, neuropeptide Y, endothelin, aldosterone and renin activity. After simvastatin therapy, MSNA and BRS were inversely related (r=-0.94, P<0.05). In conclusion, we found that, in patients with hypertension and hypercholesterolemia, simvastatin reduced MSNA, and this was related to increased baroreceptor sensitivity.

UI  - 20668250
TI  - Supplemental barley protein and casein similarly affect serum lipids in hypercholesterolemic women and men.
AB  - High-protein diets have been advocated for weight loss and the treatment of diabetes. Yet animal protein sources are often high in saturated fat and cholesterol. Vegetable protein sources, by contrast, are low in saturated fat and without associated cholesterol. We have therefore assessed the effect on serum lipids of raising the protein intake by 5% using a cereal protein, barley protein, as part of a standard therapeutic diet. Twenty-three hypercholesterolemic men and postmenopausal women completed a randomized crossover study comparing a bread enriched with either barley protein or calcium caseinate [30 g protein, 8374 kJ (2000 kcal)] taken separately as two 1-mo treatment phases with a minimum 2-wk washout. Body weight and diet history were collected weekly during each treatment. Fasting blood samples were obtained at wk 0, 2, and 4. Palatability, satiety, and compliance were similar for both the barley protein- and casein-enriched breads, with no differences between the treatments in effects on serum LDL cholesterol or C-reactive protein, measures of oxidative stress, or blood pressure. Nevertheless, because no adverse effects were observed on cardiovascular risk factors, barley protein remains an additional option for raising the protein content of the diet.

UI  - 20660284
TI  - The citrus flavonoids hesperidin and naringin do not affect serum cholesterol in moderately hypercholesterolemic men and women.
AB  - The citrus flavonoids hesperidin and naringin have been suggested to lower blood total (TC) and LDL-cholesterol (LDL-C) both in animal models and humans. However, the evidence from previous studies in humans is not convincing. This study evaluated the LDL-C-lowering efficacy of pure hesperidin and naringin in moderately hypercholesterolemic individuals. A total of 204 healthy men and women with a serum TC concentration of 5.0-8.0 mmol/L participated in a randomized, placebo-controlled, parallel trial with 3 groups. A 4-wk preintervention period during which participants refrained from consuming hesperidin and naringin sources preceded the intervention. During the 4-wk intervention, the participants applied the same dietary restrictions and consumed 4 capsules/d providing either placebo (cellulose) or a daily dose of 800 mg hesperidin or 500 mg naringin. Blood samples to measure serum lipids were taken on 2 consecutive days at the beginning and end of the intervention phase. One hundred ninety-four participants completed the study. They maintained their prestudy body weights (mean changes lt 0.2 kg in all groups). In all groups, the mean consumption of scheduled capsules was gt 99%. Hesperidin and naringin did not affect TC or LDL-C, with endpoint LDL-C concentrations (adjusted for baseline) of 4.00 +/- 0.04, 3.99 +/- 0.04, and 3.99 +/- 0.04 mmol/L for control, hesperidin, and naringin groups, respectively. These citrus flavonoids also did not affect serum HDL-cholesterol and triglyceride concentrations. In conclusion, pure hesperidin and naringin consumed in capsules at mealtime do not lower serum TC and LDL-C concentrations in moderately hypercholesterolemic men and women.

UI  - 20636227
TI  - HypoCol (red yeast rice) lowers plasma cholesterol - a randomized placebo controlled study.
AB  - The tested red yeast rice product demonstrated a significant cholesterol lowering effect compared to placebo, and was well tolerated in this Caucasian population.

UI  - 20634176
TI  - Colesevelam hydrochloride to treat hypercholesterolemia and improve glycemia in prediabetes: a randomized, prospective study.
AB  - Colesevelam is an option for managing the lipid profile and normalizing glucose levels in patients with hypercholesterolemia and prediabetes. Further study is warranted to determine whether colesevelam slows or prevents progression of prediabetes to type 2 diabetes.

UI  - 20630099
TI  - Immediate effect of intensive atorvastatin therapy on lipid parameters in patients with acute coronary syndrome.
AB  - We have shown that intensive statin therapy started at admission in ACS patients has a highly significant, immediate effect on all monitored lipid levels. Since TC and LDL levels were decreased as predicted, reduction in HDL and increase in TG levels suggest a different acute effect of high-dose statin on lipid levels in comparison with long-term treatment of ACS patients.

UI  - 20627247
TI  - Exercise training accelerates the removal from plasma of LDL-like nanoemulsion in moderately hypercholesterolemic subjects.
AB  - In HCh, exercise training increased the removal of LDL as tested by the nanoemulsion, and this probably accounted for decreased LDL cholesterol and diminished LDL susceptibility to oxidation.

UI  - 20626664
TI  - A randomized clinical trial to assess the effect of statins on skeletal muscle function and performance: rationale and study design.
AB  - Hydroxymethylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase inhibitors or statins are the most effective medications for reducing elevated concentrations of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C). Statins reduce cardiac events in patients with coronary artery disease and previously healthy persons. Current recommendations for LDL-C treatment goals indicate that more patients will be treated with higher doses of these medications. Statins have been extremely well-tolerated in controlled clinical trials but are increasingly recognized to produce skeletal muscle myalgia, cramps, and weakness. The reported frequency of such mild symptoms is not clear, and muscle performance has not been examined with these medications. Accordingly, the present investigation, the Effect of Statins on Skeletal Muscle Function and Performance (STOMP) study, will recruit approximately 440 healthy persons. Participants will be randomly assigned to treatment with atorvastatin 80 mg/d or placebo. Handgrip, elbow and knee isometric and isokinetic strength, knee extensor endurance, and maximal aerobic exercise performance will be determined at baseline. Participants will undergo repeat testing after 6 months of treatment or after meeting the study definition of statin myalgia. This study will determine the effect of statins on skeletal muscle strength, endurance, and aerobic exercise performance and may ultimately help clinicians better evaluate statin-related muscle and exercise complaints.

UI  - 20626402
TI  - Lipid-altering efficacy of ezetimibe/simvastatin 10/20 mg compared to rosuvastatin 10 mg in high-risk patients with and without type 2 diabetes mellitus inadequately controlled despite prior statin monotherapy.
AB  - Switching to EZE/SIMVA 10/20 mg versus ROSUVA 10 mg provided superior lipid reductions in patients with/without T2DM.

UI  - 20625310
TI  - Markers of cholesterol absorption and synthesis predict the low-density lipoprotein cholesterol response to atorvastatin.
AB  - CCR and desmosterol explain more variation in LDL-C response to statin than that reported with pharmacogenomics. CCR and desmosterol may guide lipid-lowering therapy.

UI  - 20617456
TI  - The metabolic effects of omega-3 plant sterol esters in mixed hyperlipidemic subjects.
AB  - In patients with mixed hyperlipidemia, n-3-PSE treatment may offer a safe and effective therapy for triglyceride level reduction while avoiding the typical increase in LDL-C levels associated with n-3 fatty acid treatment. The observed reduction in blood pressure and inflammation markers warrants further evaluation. The positive effect of n-3-PSE treatment was preserved at the end of the follow up phase.

UI  - 20607595
TI  - Effects of simvastatin on proinflammatory cytokines and matrix metalloproteinases in hypercholesterolemic individuals.
AB  - Statins are potent lipid-lowering drugs but anti-inflammatory effects have also been suggested. Our aim was to investigate the effects of simvastatin on proinflammatory cytokines and matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs). Eighty hypercholesterolemic men were randomized to simvastatin 40 mg or placebo for 6 weeks. Simvastatin treatment significantly reduced C-reactive protein (CRP) levels while interleukin (IL)-6 levels remained unchanged. The ex vivo release of IL-1 and IL-6 was not altered by simvastatin, whereas the release of TNF- and IL-8 increased after 6 weeks of simvastatin treatment. Similarly, the circulating levels of MMP-3 and TIMP-1 remained unaffected by simvastatin while MMP-9 increased. However, none of the effects except for the CRP reduction within the simvastatin group reached statistical significance when compared to the placebo group. Our findings are in contrast to previous in vitro and animal data and question the in vivo relevance of some of the pleiotropic effects of simvastatin.

UI  - 20606518
TI  - Aerobic training restores arterial baroreflex sensitivity in older adults with type 2 diabetes, hypertension, and hypercholesterolemia.
AB  - Our findings indicate that a relatively short aerobic exercise intervention can reverse functional impairments of the arterial baroreflex function in older adults at high cardiovascular risk.

UI  - 20603038
TI  - The tolerability and efficacy of low-dose simvastatin in statin-intolerant patients.
AB  - Low-dose simvastatin therapy is tolerated in a considerable proportion of statin-intolerant patients with significant lipid lowering efficacy. Low-dose statin therapy can be considered in multidrug regimens in statin-intolerant patients.

UI  - 20561460
TI  - Controlled trial of an intervention to improve cholesterol management in diabetes patients in remote Aboriginal communities.
AB  - Audit and feedback listing patients requiring treatment did not increase statin prescription rates in diabetic patients in remote Aboriginal settings. This may be due to elevated baseline rates, the low intensity of feedback and the constraints of the practice environment, such as low staffing and high staff turnover.

UI  - 20543522
TI  - Association between lowering low-density lipoprotein cholesterol with pravastatin and primary prevention of cardiovascular disease in mild to moderate hypercholesterolemic Japanese.
AB  - The usual Japanese dose of pravastatin therapy is sufficient in this low-risk patient population to reduce cardiovascular risk, with an achieved LDL-C level <133.4 mg/dL. Further risk reduction was not found with an achieved LDL <120 mg/dL.

UI  - 20524719
TI  - Efficacy and safety of rosuvastatin and fenofibric acid combination therapy versus simvastatin monotherapy in patients with hypercholesterolemia and hypertriglyceridemia: a randomized, double-blind study.
AB  - In patients with high LDL-C and TG levels, combination treatment with rosuvastatin/fenofibric acid was well tolerated, and each of the rosuvastatin/fenofibric acid doses produced greater reductions in LDL-C and improvements in other efficacy parameters, compared with simvastatin 40 mg. [Clinical trial is registered at www.clinicaltrials.gov NCT00812955.].

UI  - 20525997
TI  - High-dose atorvastatin causes a rapid sustained increase in human serum PCSK9 and disrupts its correlation with LDL cholesterol.
AB  - Proprotein convertase subtilisin kexin type 9 (PCSK9) is a key regulator of serum LDL-cholesterol (LDL-C) levels. PCSK9 is secreted by the liver into the plasma and binds the hepatic LDL receptor (LDLR), causing its subsequent degradation. We first demonstrated that a moderate dose of atorvastatin (40 mg) increases PCSK9 serum levels, suggesting why increasing statin doses may have diminished efficacy with regard to further LDL-C lowering. Since that initial observation, at least two other groups have reported statin-induced PCSK9 increases. To date, no analysis of the effect of high-dose atorvastatin (80 mg) on PCSK9 over time has been conducted. Therefore, we studied the time course of atorvastatin (80 mg) in human subjects. We measured PCSK9 and lipid levels during a 2-week lead-in baseline period and every 4 weeks thereafter for 16 weeks. We observed that atorvastatin (80 mg) caused a rapid 47% increase in serum PCSK9 at 4 weeks that was sustained throughout 16 weeks of dosing. Importantly, while PCSK9 levels were highly correlated with total cholesterol (TC), LDL-C, and triglyceride (TG) levels at baseline, atorvastatin (80 mg) completely abolished all of these correlations. Together, these results further suggest an explanation for why increasing doses of statins fail to achieve proportional LDL-C lowering.

UI  - 20518948
TI  - Efficacy and safety of extended-release niacin/laropiprant plus statin vs. doubling the dose of statin in patients with primary hypercholesterolaemia or mixed dyslipidaemia.
AB  - The addition of ERN/LRPT to ongoing statin treatment produced significantly improved lipid-modifying benefits on LDL-C, HDL-C and TG and all other lipid parameters compared with doubling the statin dose in patients with primary hypercholesterolaemia or mixed dyslipidaemia. The types of AEs that occurred at a greater frequency in the ERN/LRPT group were those typically associated with niacin.

UI  - 20507015
TI  - Atorvastatin for diabetic macular edema in patients with diabetes mellitus and elevated serum cholesterol.
AB  - Oral atorvastatin therapy in patients with diabetes mellitus and dyslipidemia seems to reduce the severity of hard exudates and fluorescein leakage in diabetic maculopathy and could be useful as an adjuvant therapy in the management of diabetic macular edema.

UI  - 20492655
TI  - Ezetimibe + simvastatin versus doubling the dose of simvastatin in high cardiovascular risk diabetics: a multicenter, randomized trial (the LEAD study).
AB  - These results demonstrate that EZ + simva 10/20 mg may provide a superior alternative for LDL-C lowering vs doubling the dose of simvastatin to 40 mg in hyperlipidemic patients with T2DM and CHD. In addition, the combination therapy may provide an alternative treatment for patients who require further LDL-C reduction than they can achieve with simvastatin 20 mg alone.

UI  - 20488274
TI  - The influence of long-term awareness of hyperlipidemia and of 3 years of dietary counseling on depression, anxiety, and quality of life.
AB  - Compared to the general population, screening-positive subjects did not have increased mental distress 25 years after screening, and beneficial health behavior persisted. Dietary counseling did not affect psychosocial outcomes.

UI  - 20487050
TI  - Incremental cholesterol reduction with ezetimibe/simvastatin, atorvastatin and rosuvastatin in UK General Practice (IN-PRACTICE): randomised controlled trial of achievement of Joint British Societies (JBS-2) cholesterol targets.
AB  - Approximately 45% of patients screened had not achieved LDL-C < 2 mmol/l after > or = 12 weeks of treatment with simvastatin 40 mg. In this group, treatment with ezetimibe/simvastatin 10/40 mg achieved target LDL-C levels in a significantly higher proportion of patients during a 6-week period than switching to either atorvastatin 40 mg or rosuvastatin 5-10 mg.

UI  - 20484828
TI  - Preventive effects of eicosapentaenoic acid on coronary artery disease in patients with peripheral artery disease.
AB  - Subanalysis of the JELIS trial demonstrated that in patients with PAD the incidence of CAD was higher than in controls, and that EPA markedly reduced the occurrence of CAD in those patients.

UI  - 20473136
TI  - Effects of simvastatin on cholesterol metabolism and Alzheimer disease biomarkers.
AB  - Preclinical and epidemiologic studies suggest a protective effect of statins on Alzheimer disease (AD). Experimental evidence indicates that some statins can cross the blood-brain barrier, alter brain cholesterol metabolism, and may ultimately decrease the production of amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptide. Despite these promising leads, clinical trials have yielded inconsistent results regarding the benefits of statin treatment in AD. Seeking to detect a biological signal of statins effect on AD, we conducted a 12-week open-label trial with simvastatin 40 mg/d and then 80 mg/d in 12 patients with AD or amnestic mild cognitive impairment and hypercholesterolemia. We quantified cholesterol precursors and metabolites and AD biomarkers of Abeta and tau in both plasma and cerebrospinal fluid at baseline and after the 12-week treatment period. We found a modest but significant inhibition of brain cholesterol biosynthesis after simvastatin treatment, as indexed by a decrease of cerebrospinal fluid lathosterol and plasma 24S-hydroxycholesterol. Despite this effect, there were no changes in AD biomarkers. Our findings indicate that simvastatin treatment can affect brain cholesterol metabolism within 12 weeks, but did not alter molecular indices of AD pathology during this short-term treatment.

UI  - 20461472
TI  - Influence of simvastatin on apoB-100 secretion in non-obese subjects with mild hypercholesterolemia.
AB  - Statins decrease apoB-100-containing lipoproteins by increasing their fractional catabolic rates through LDL receptor-mediated uptake. Their influence on hepatic secretion of these lipoproteins is controversial. The objective of the study was to examine the influence of simvastatin on the secretion of apoB-100-containing lipoproteins in fasting non-obese subjects. Turnover of apoB-100-containing lipoproteins was investigated using stable isotope-labeled tracers. Multicompartmental modeling was used to derive kinetic parameters. Eight male subjects (BMI 25 +/- 3 kg/m(2)) with mild hypercholesterolemia (LDL cholesterol 135 +/- 30 mg/dL) and normal triglycerides (111 +/- 44 mg/dL) were examined under no treatment (A), under chronic treatment with simvastatin 40 mg/day (B) and after an acute-on-chronic dosage of 80 mg simvastatin under chronic simvastatin treatment (C). Lipoprotein concentrations changed as expected under 40 mg/day simvastatin. Fractional catabolic rates increased in IDL and LDL but not in VLDL fractions versus control [VLDL +35% in B (n.s.) and +21% in C (n.s.); IDL +169% in B (P = 0.08) and +187% in C (P = 0.032); LDL +87% in B (P = 0.025) and +133% in C (P = 0.025)]. Chronic (B) and acute-on-chronic simvastatin treatment (C) did not affect lipoprotein production rates [VLDL -8 and -13%, IDL +47 and +38%, and LDL +19 and +30% in B and C, respectively (all comparisons n.s.)]. The data indicate that simvastatin does not influence the secretion of apoB-100-containing lipoproteins in non-obese subjects with near-normal LDL cholesterol concentrations.

UI  - 20456813
TI  - Effects of phytosterol ester-enriched low-fat milk on serum lipoprotein profile in mildly hypercholesterolaemic patients are not related to dietary cholesterol or saturated fat intake.
AB  - Phytosterols (PS) are recommended to reduce LDL-cholesterol. However, the influence of cholesterol and fat intake on the lipid-lowering effect of PS in mildly hypercholesterolaemia is unclear. Thus, the aim of the present study was to evaluate whether the efficacy of PS is related to the composition of saturated fat and dietary cholesterol intake. Additionally, serum carotenoid content was analysed to evaluate to what extent it was undermined by PS. This was a 3-month randomised, parallel trial with a three-arm design. Patients were divided into three groups: healthy diet (n 24), healthy diet+PS (n 31) and free diet+PS (n 29), receiving 2 g/d of PS. Healthy and free diets were characterised by a daily ingestion of 6.8 % of saturated fat and 194.4 mg of cholesterol and 12.7 % of saturated fat and 268.1 mg of cholesterol, respectively. After PS therapy, patients receiving the healthy diet+PS or a free diet+PS exhibited a similar reduction in total cholesterol (6.7 and 5.5 %), LDL-cholesterol (9.6 and 7.0 %), non-HDL-cholesterol (12.2 and 8.9 %) and apo B-100/apo A-I ratio (11.5 and 11.6 %), respectively. In patients following the healthy diet, (-carotene concentration rose by 26.9 %, whereas the -carotene and lycopene levels dropped by 21.0 and 22.8 % in the group receiving the free diet+PS, respectively. No change was observed in carotenoid levels in healthy diet+PS group. In conclusion, the efficacy of PS in relation to lipoprotein profile is not influenced by saturated fat or dietary cholesterol intake, which confirms the positive effect of healthy diet therapy in improving the negative effects that PS exert on carotenoid levels.

UI  - 20434929
TI  - [Utilisation of atypical antipsychotic drugs in institutionalised elderly persons and prevalence of metabolic alterations].
AB  - The results obtained show that utilisation of atypical antipsychotics in elderly patients complies with the established general recommendations. The doses used in elderly patients with behavioural alterations associated with dementia, mostly treated with risperidone, do not have a significant impact over prevalence increase of metabolic alterations.

UI  - 20434045
TI  - Risk factor profiles of stroke, myocardial infarction, and atrial fibrillation: a Japanese Multicenter Cooperative Registry.
AB  - Risk factor profiles and their modification were not similar among patients in Japan with MI, stroke, and NVAF, although they share a high risk of thrombotic events.

UI  - 20432816
TI  - Soy-derived isoflavones treatment in children with hypercholesterolemia: a pilot study.
AB  - The results of this pilot study do not suggest a beneficial role of an isoflavone-enriched diet in children with hypercholesterolemia.

UI  - 20413969
TI  - HDL cholesterol levels in children with mild hypercholesterolemia: effect of consuming skim milk enriched with olive oil and modulation by the TAQ 1B polymorphism in the CETP gene.
AB  - The consumption of skim milk enriched with olive oil increases the HDL cholesterol and apolipoprotein A-I levels in children with hypercholesterolemia, this effect being more intense in carriers of the B1B1 genotype.

UI  - 20413736
TI  - Atorvastatin reduces macrophage accumulation in atherosclerotic plaques: a comparison of a nonstatin-based regimen in patients undergoing carotid endarterectomy.
AB  - Short-term treatment with high-dose statin is superior to a nonstatin lipid-lowering regimen in reducing the macrophage cell content within atherosclerotic lesions, but this effect was determined by the degree of LDL-C-lowering.

UI  - 20413122
TI  - Soluble fibre (Plantago ovata husk) reduces plasma low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, triglycerides, insulin, oxidised LDL and systolic blood pressure in hypercholesterolaemic patients: A randomised trial.
AB  - Po-husk, apart from lowering LDL-C, also reduced TG, TG related to certain gene variants, TC, Apo B-100, oxLDL, insulin-resistance and systolic BP in mild-moderate hypercholesterolaemic individuals. Thus, the target patients to receive Po-husk would be those who present a cluster of various CVD risk factors, such as metabolic syndrome.

UI  - 20395260
TI  - Fasting plasma glucose in non-diabetic participants and the risk for incident cardiovascular events, diabetes, and mortality: results from WOSCOPS 15-year follow-up.
AB  - Elevations in FPG in the non-diabetic range were not associated with long-term risk of cardiovascular events in middle-aged men in WOSCOPS. These data suggest that the current FPG cutoff for diagnosing diabetes also appropriately identifies western men at risk of CVD.

UI  - 20378080
TI  - Efficacy and safety of mipomersen, an antisense inhibitor of apolipoprotein B, in hypercholesterolemic subjects receiving stable statin therapy.
AB  - Mipomersen might hold promise for treatment of patients not reaching target LDL cholesterol levels on stable statin therapy. Further studies are needed to address the mechanisms and clinical relevance of transaminase changes after mipomersen administration. (Dose-Escalating Safety Study in Subjects on Stable Statin Therapy; NCT00231569).

UI  - 20375102
TI  - Renal function, cardiovascular disease risk factors' prevalence and 5-year disease incidence; the role of diet, exercise, lipids and inflammation markers: the ATTICA study.
AB  - Renal function seems to be associated with the levels of lifestyle and bio-clinical CVD risk factors and contribute to the long-term incidence of cardiac events. Public health care practitioners should take into account renal function in better preventing the burden of CVD at individual, and population level, as well.

UI  - 20357077
TI  - Pistachios increase serum antioxidants and lower serum oxidized-LDL in hypercholesterolemic adults.
AB  - Pistachios are high in lutein, beta-carotene, and gamma-tocopherol relative to other nuts; however, studies of the effects of pistachios on oxidative status are lacking. We conducted a randomized, crossover controlled-feeding study to evaluate 2 doses of pistachios on serum antioxidants and biomarkers of oxidative status in 28 hypercholesterolemic adults (LDL-cholesterol >or=2.86 mmol/L). Participants consumed 3 isoenergetic diets for 4 wk each after a 2-wk baseline Western diet. Experimental diets included a lower-fat control diet without pistachios (25% total fat) with 1 serving/d (i.e. 32-63 g/d; energy adjusted) of pistachios (1 PD; 10% energy from pistachios; 30% total fat) or with 2 servings/d (63-126 g/d; energy adjusted) of pistachios (2 PD; 20% energy from pistachios; 34% total fat). When participants consumed the pistachio-enriched diets, they had higher plasma lutein (P < 0.0001), alpha-carotene, and beta-carotene (P < 0.01) concentrations than after the baseline diet. After consuming the pistachio diets, participants had greater plasma lutein (P < 0.001) and gamma-tocopherol (P < 0.05; 2 PD only) relative to the lower-fat control diet. After the 2 PD diet period, participants also had lower serum oxidized-LDL concentrations than following the baseline diet period (P < 0.05). After both the 1 PD and 2 PD diet periods, they had lower serum oxidized-LDL concentrations than after the control diet period (P < 0.05). The change in oxidized-LDL from baseline correlated positively with the change in LDL-cholesterol across all treatments (r = 0.42; P < 0.005). After controlling for the change in serum LDL-cholesterol as a covariate, increases in serum lutein and gamma-tocopherol following the 2 PD period were still modestly associated with decreases in oxidized-LDL (r = -0.36, P = 0.06 and r = -0.35, P = 0.08, respectively). This suggests that a heart-healthy diet including pistachios contributes to the decrease in the serum oxidized-LDL concentration through cholesterol-lowering and may provide an added benefit as a result of the antioxidants the pistachios contain.

UI  - 20348032
TI  - A cluster randomised controlled trial of pharmacist led statin outreach support (SOS) in primary care: design and baseline characteristics.
AB  - Compared with existing implementation research, SOS trial has more participants, a detailed description of baseline characteristics and over 90% power (at 5% significance) to detect a difference of 12% in the proportion of patients with controlled cholesterol after SOS.

UI  - 20347450
TI  - Case-control study of risk of Parkinson's disease in relation to hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, and diabetes in Japan.
AB  - This case-control study investigated the associations of a history of hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, and diabetes mellitus with the risk of Parkinson's disease (PD) in Japan. Included were 249 cases within 6 years of onset of PD. Controls were 368 inpatients and outpatients without a neurodegenerative disease. Data on the vascular risk factors and confounders were obtained from a self-administered questionnaire. The vascular risk factors were defined based on drug treatment. Adjustment was made for sex, age, region of residence, pack-years of smoking, years of education, leisure-time exercise, body mass index, dietary intake of energy, cholesterol, vitamin E, alcohol, and coffee and the dietary glycemic index. The proportions of hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, and diabetes mellitus prior to the onset of PD were 23.7%, 9.6%, and 4.0%, respectively, in cases. Hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, and diabetes mellitus were significantly associated with a decreased risk of PD: the adjusted ORs were 0.43 (95% CI: 0.29-0.64), 0.58 (95% CI: 0.33-0.97), and 0.38 (95% CI: 0.17-0.79), respectively. No significant differences were observed in the association of vascular risk factors with the risk of PD between men and women. We found evidence of significant inverse associations of hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, and diabetes mellitus with the risk of PD in Japan. Further well-designed investigations of the association of vascular risk factors with the risk of PD are needed, particularly large-scale prospective studies in Asia.

UI  - 20345493
TI  - Effect of moderate and high-dose simvastatin on asymmetric dimethylarginine-homocysteine metabolic pathways in patients with newly detected severe hypercholesterolemia.
AB  - The assumption that statin therapy can decrease asymmetric dimethylarginine through lowering low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels seems logical and yet arises some controversy. The aim of the present study is to compare the effects of moderate (40 mg) to high (80 mg) simvastatin doses on asymmetric dimethylarginine and total homocysteine levels in patients with newly detected severe hypercholesterolemia (after target LDL-C levels, 2.6 mmol/L, are reached). The study included 120 adult patients with newly detected severe hypercholesterolemia (total cholesterol 7.5 mmol/L and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol 4.9 mmol/L). Asymmetric dimethylarginine levels were determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, total homocysteine-by a high-performance liquid chromatographic method. There was a statistically significant decrease in total cholesterol, triglycerides, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and apolipoprotein-B levels as well as in the apolipoprotein-B/apolipoprotein-A1 index after a 1-month therapy with 40 mg simvastatin (P <0.001). Asymmetric dimethylarginine and total homocysteine levels were also decreased but the difference did not reach statistical significance (P= 0.571; P= 0.569). A dose-dependent effect was established, comparing the influence of moderate (40 mg) to high (80 mg) simvastatin doses on the tested atherogenic biomarkers (lipid profile, apolipoprotein-A1, and apolipoprotein-B). Asymmetric dimethylarginine and total homocysteine levels were lowered significantly with 80 mg simvastatin (P <0.001; P= 0.038). In conclusion, optimizing the target values of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, a moderate dose (40 mg) of simvastatin has no effect on asymmetric dimethylarginine and total homocysteine in contrast to a high dose (80 mg) after target LDL-C levels are reached (2.6 mmol/L) in patients with newly detected severe hypercholesterolemia.

UI  - 20339154
TI  - Statins, antihypertensive treatment, and blood pressure control in clinic and over 24 hours: evidence from PHYLLIS randomised double blind trial.
AB  - Administration of a statin in hypertensive patients in whom blood pressure is effectively reduced by concomitant antihypertensive treatment does not have an additional blood pressure lowering effect. Trial registration BRISQUI_*IV_2004_001 (registered at Osservatorio Nazionale sulla Sperimentazione Clinica dei Medicinali-National Monitoring Centre on Clinical Research with Medicines).

UI  - 20301983
TI  - A randomized double-blind study comparing the efficacy and safety of orlistat versus placebo in obese patients with mild to moderate hypercholesterolemia.
AB  - Treatment with orlistat plus a reduced calorie diet for 6 months achieved significant reductions in weight, BMI and lipid parameters.

UI  - 20298928
TI  - Atorvastatin causes insulin resistance and increases ambient glycemia in hypercholesterolemic patients.
AB  - Despite beneficial reductions in LDL cholesterol and apolipoprotein B, atorvastatin treatment resulted in significant increases in fasting insulin and glycated hemoglobin levels consistent with insulin resistance and increased ambient glycemia in hypercholesterolemic patients. (Effects of Atorvastatin on Adiponectin Levels and Insulin Sensitivity In Hypercholesterolemic Patients; NCT00745836).

UI  - 20229124
TI  - Pitavastatin reduces lectin-like oxidized low-density lipoprotein receptor-1 ligands in hypercholesterolemic humans.
AB  - The aim of this study was to determine the impact of pitavastatin on low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) and lectin-like oxidized LDL receptor-1 (LOX-1) in patients with hypercholesterolemia. Twenty-five hypercholesterolemic patients (8 male, 17 female; age 66 +/- 13, 21-80 years) who had not received anti-dyslipidemic agents and had LDL-C levels of more than 160 mg/dL were examined. Biochemical factors were measured at baseline and after treatment with pitavastatin (2 mg/day) for 6 months. Serum levels of LOX-1 with apolipoprotein B-100 particle ligand and a soluble form of LOX-1 (sLOX-1) were measured by ELISA. All subjects completed the study with no adverse side effects. Total-C (268 +/- 26 vs. 176 +/- 17 mg/dL), LDL-C (182 +/- 21 vs. 96 +/- 14 mg/dL), and LOX-1 ligand (867 +/- 452 vs. 435 +/- 262 ng/mL) were reduced with pitavastatin treatment (P < 0.0001 for each). Significant decreases in triacylglycerols were noted (P < 0.0001), but there were no changes in high-density lipoprotein cholesterol. After 6 months, there were no significant changes in high-sensitivity CRP or soluble LOX-1. At baseline, there were no significant correlations between LOX-1 ligand and either LDL-C or sLOX-1. The decrease in LOX-1 ligand was not correlated with the decrease in LDL-C, but was correlated with the decrease in sLOX-1 (r = 0.47, P < 0.05). In conclusion, pitavastatin therapy had beneficial effects on markers of oxidative stress in hypercholesterolemic subjects. Serum levels of LOX-1 ligand may be a useful biomarker of the pleiotropic effects of statins.

UI  - 20226997
TI  - Atorvastatin increases blood ratios of vitamin E/low-density lipoprotein cholesterol and coenzyme Q10/low-density lipoprotein cholesterol in hypercholesterolemic patients.
AB  - Statins are among the most widely used drugs in the management of hypercholesterolemia. In addition to inhibiting endogenous cholesterol synthesis, however, statins decrease coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10) synthesis. CoQ10 has been reported to have antioxidant properties, and administration of drugs that decrease CoQ10 synthesis might lead to increased oxidative stress in vivo. Our present study examined the hypothesis that atorvastatin increased oxidative stress in hypercholesterolemic patients due to its inhibition of CoQ10 synthesis. We investigated the effects of atorvastatin (10 mg/d) administration for 5 months on lowering hypercholesterolemia and blood antioxidant status. The study population included 19 hypercholesterolemic outpatients. Blood levels of lipid and antioxidant markers, consisting of vitamin C, vitamin E, CoQ10, and glutathione (GSH), and urinary levels of 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) were examined pre- and postadministration of atorvastatin. Atorvastatin administration resulted in a significant decrease in blood levels of total cholesterol, triglycerides, low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, vitamin E, and CoQ10 (P < .05); however, a significant increase in the ratios of vitamin E/LDL cholesterol and CoQ10/LDL cholesterol was noted (P < .05). Atorvastatin had no significant effect on red blood cell (RBC) level of GSH and urinary 8-OHdG. The present study provides evidence that atorvastatin exerts a hypocholesterolemic effect, but on the basis of the urinary level of 8-OHdG and the blood ratios of vitamin E/LDL cholesterol and CoQ10/LDL cholesterol, has no oxidative stress-inducing effect.

UI  - 20216318
TI  - Control of baseline cardiovascular risk factors in the SU-FOL-OM3 study cohort: does the localization of the arterial event matter?
AB  - There is a need to improve the control of CV risk factors in secondary prevention patients. This is particularly crucial for patients with CVD.

UI  - 20215976
TI  - One-year soy protein supplementation does not improve lipid profile in postmenopausal women.
AB  - Our data indicate that 1-year soy protein supplementation did not confer cardiovascular benefits, in terms of favorable alterations in the lipid profile, in this cohort of postmenopausal women. These findings, as well as those from other studies, lend credence to the decision of the Food and Drug Administration to reevaluate the soy protein health claim issued a decade ago.

UI  - 20208067
TI  - Is patient self-report an adequate tool for monitoring cardiovascular conditions in patients with hypercholesterolemia?
AB  - Since the agreement between patient self-report and CRFs/medical records varies with specific cardiovascular diagnoses in patients with hypercholesterolemia, the adequacy of this tool seems to be limited. However, the authors recommend additional data validation for certain patient groups and consideration of individual patient characteristics associated with over- and underreporting.

UI  - 20203451
TI  - Design and rationale of a real-life study to compare treatment strategies for cardiovascular risk factors: the CRUCIAL study.
AB  - The CRUCIAL trial was designed to compare the relative reduction in calculated Framingham coronary heart disease risk when a multiple risk factor intervention strategy, based on single-pill amlodipine besylate/atorvastatin calcium, was compared with a usual-care strategy. Eligible patients had treated or untreated hypertension, >or=3 additional cardiovascular risk factors, and baseline total cholesterol<or=6.5 mmol/L, but no coronary heart disease. The CRUCIAL trial was a 12-month, international, multicenter, prospective, stratified, cluster-randomized, parallel-design, open-label trial conducted in 20 countries in Asia, the Middle East, Europe, and Latin America. We anticipate the results of this study will be available in mid to late 2010. In this article we report the rationale for and design of the CRUCIAL trial and discuss how the challenges in the design and conduct of this cluster-randomized trial were addressed. The cluster-randomized trial design, with the investigator as the unit of randomization, was chosen to minimize contamination between the trial arms. The intent of the study was to compare the new therapeutic strategy with customary treatment practices, so no recommendation was made regarding the choice of antihypertensive or lipid-lowering drugs in the usual-care arm. It was considered that if the investigator managed both arms of the trial it would be difficult to prevent crossover of treatment strategies. Patients were enrolled in the study before the investigators were randomized to avoid selection bias. Investigators were randomized in a 1:1 ratio within each country to explicitly balance the treatment arms with respect to potential confounding factors. The cluster effect was taken into account in the sample size calculation. The findings from the CRUCIAL trial have the potential to inform current thinking on how to effectively reduce the cardiovascular risk of patients with hypertension and additional risk factors but only modestly elevated total cholesterol.

UI  - 20202105
TI  - Efficacy of phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitor treatment in men with erectile dysfunction and dyslipidemia: a post hoc analysis of the vardenafil statin study.
AB  - Vardenafil was effective in men with dyslipidemia regardless of LDL-C levels, TC/HDL-C ratio, and/or presence of metabolic syndrome. Despite the known presence of ED and dyslipidemia, other cardiovascular risk factors were apparently not aggressively managed.

UI  - 20201749
TI  - Comparison of the influence of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor lisinopril and angiotensin II receptor antagonist losartan in patients with idiopathic membranous nephropathy and nephrotic syndrome.
AB  - Treatment with lisinopril and losartan in nephrotic patients with idiopathic membranous nephropathy results in similar (and significant) effects on renal function, hypoalbuminaemia, proteinuria and blood pressure.

UI  - 20197785
TI  - Effects of alpha-glucans from Agaricus bisporus on ex vivo cytokine production by LPS and PHA-stimulated PBMCs; a placebo-controlled study in slightly hypercholesterolemic subjects.
AB  - Our current finding suggests that in vivo, alpha-glucans have lost their efficacy to stimulate the immune response as observed in our in vitro mouse model.

UI  - 20195400
TI  - Comparative study of low doses of rosuvastatin and atorvastatin on lipid and glycemic control in patients with metabolic syndrome and hypercholesterolemia.
AB  - Rosuvastatin 10 mg was more effective than atorvastatin 10 mg in achieving NCEP ATP III LDL-C goals in patients with nondiabetic metabolic syndrome, especially in those with lower NCEP ATP III target level goals.

UI  - 20189085
TI  - A stroke study of an urban area of Iran: risk factors, length of stay, case fatality, and discharge destination.
AB  - Hypertension and diabetes mellitus are more frequent here than average global findings. One-month case fatality was higher than in European countries but less than in developing countries. The most interesting difference comparing developed countries is the destination, which should be addressed. We strongly recommend establishing a stroke registry, establishing primary prevention, and promoting rehabilitation facilities in Iran.

UI  - 20179259
TI  - Comparative efficacy and safety of low-dose pitavastatin versus atorvastatin in patients with hypercholesterolemia.
AB  - Although pitavastatin 1 mg daily was not as effective at lowering LDL-C and TC levels as atorvastatin 10 mg daily, the number of patients achieving their LDL-C goals with pitavastatin was comparable with the number using atorvastatin. Pitavastatin 1 mg once daily may be an alternative regimen with cost-saving benefits but without a significant decrease in therapeutic benefit or increase in adverse events in patients with hypercholesterolemia.

UI  - 20153154
TI  - The treatment of hypercholesterolemic children: efficacy and safety of a combination of red yeast rice extract and policosanols.
AB  - The treatment with a dietary supplement containing red yeast rice extract and policosanols has been for the first time successfully employed in hypercholesterolemic children. Results indicate this strategy as an effective, safe and well tolerated in a short-term trial.

UI  - 20151997
TI  - Ezetimibe added to atorvastatin compared with doubling the atorvastatin dose in patients at high risk for coronary heart disease with diabetes mellitus, metabolic syndrome or neither.
AB  - Compared with doubling atorvastatin to 80 mg, addition of ezetimibe to atorvastatin 40 mg produced greater improvements in multiple lipid parameters in high-CHD risk patients with T2DM, MetS or neither, consistent with the significantly greater changes observed in the full study cohort (clinical trial # NCT00276484).

UI  - 20151053
TI  - Achieving cholesterol targets by individualizing starting doses of statin according to baseline low-density lipoprotein cholesterol and coronary artery disease risk category: the CANadians Achieve Cholesterol Targets Fast with Atorvastatin Stratified Titration (CanACTFAST) study.
AB  - Algorithm-based statin dosing enables patients to achieve LDL-C and TC/HDL-C ratio targets quickly, with either no titration or a single titration.

UI  - 20150526
TI  - Effects of concomitant therapy with diltiazem on the lipid responses to simvastatin in Chinese subjects.
AB  - Diltiazem increases systemic exposure to simvastatin via inhibition of CYP3A. This study assessed the impact of this interaction on the lipid-lowering effects of simvastatin. Chinese patients with hypercholesterolemia were randomized to receive simvastatin 20 mg daily alone or together with diltiazem 60 mg 3 times daily for 4 weeks with a washout period of 4 weeks in an open-label, crossover study. Blood pressure, fasting serum lipid profile, and safety tests were determined at baseline and after each treatment period. Trough serum diltiazem was measured at the end of the 4-week combination treatment. In the 30 patients who completed the study, simvastatin treatment significantly reduced low-density lipoprotein cholesterol by mean ( standard error) 41.0%  2.2% (P < .001), and the combination with diltiazem showed an additional reduction of 1.66% (95% confidence interval: -4.63 to 7.96, P > .05). The additional change in low-density lipoprotein cholesterol with diltiazem showed a nonsignificant positive correlation with the trough serum diltiazem concentration (R(2) = 0.142, P = .058). Co-administration of diltiazem 60 mg 3 times daily with simvastatin 20 mg daily tended to increase the changes in lipid parameters in these Chinese subjects, but the effects did not reach significance.

UI  - 20150290
TI  - Relationships between metabolic syndrome and other baseline factors and the efficacy of ezetimibe/simvastatin and atorvastatin in patients with type 2 diabetes and hypercholesterolemia.
AB  - Treatment responses in type 2 diabetic patients were related to baseline factors, although treatment effects (ezetimibe/simvastatin being more effective than atorvastatin) remained consistent. The presence of predictive factors should be considered in planning lipid-altering therapy.

UI  - 20145342
TI  - Clinical importance of adherence to treatment with eicosapentaenoic acid by patients with hypercholesterolemia.
AB  - Good adherence to medication was associated with a lower cardiovascular risk than with poor adherence, and the assistance of a pharmacist is of great importance in achieving persistent adherence during treatment.

UI  - 20130569
TI  - ABCG2 polymorphism is associated with the low-density lipoprotein cholesterol response to rosuvastatin.
AB  - The ATP-binding cassette G2 (ABCG2) c.421C>A (rs2231142) polymorphism influences the pharmacokinetics of rosuvastatin. We examined whether this polymorphism influences the low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C)-lowering efficacy of the drug. In 305 Chinese patients with hypercholesterolemia who were treated with rosuvastatin at a dosage of 10 mg daily, the c.421A variant was found to be significantly associated with greater reduction in LDL-C level, in a gene-dose-dependent manner. As compared with subjects with the c.421CC genotype, those with the c.421AA genotype showed a 6.9% greater reduction in LDL-C level, which would be equivalent to the effect obtained by doubling the dose of rosuvastatin.

UI  - 20130286
TI  - Hypotensive medication, statins, and the risk of glaucoma.
AB  - PURPOSE. To examine whether treatment with oral blood-pressure-lowering medication or statins influences the risk of glaucoma. METHODS. This study was a case-control investigation, nested within a computerized primary care database of 177 general practices across the United Kingdom; 8778 cases diagnosed and/or treated for glaucoma between 2000 and 2007, and 8778 glaucoma-free controls matched for age, sex, and practice. Odds ratios for treatment with oral antihypertensives (including selective beta(1) and nonselective beta-blockers) and statins in the 5 years before diagnosis were calculated by logistic regression, adjusted for a marker of socioeconomic position and number of drug types prescribed (as a measure of health service usage). RESULTS. Prevalence of oral beta-blocker use in the 5 years before diagnosis was lower in the cases (22.5%) than in the controls (23.6%), adjusted odds ratio (OR) 0.87 (95% confidence interval [CI], 0.80-0.94). This effect was presence with treatment with beta(1)-selective medications (OR, 0.81; 95% CI, 0.74-0.88) but not with nonselective medications (OR, 1.08; 95% CI, 0.94-1.24). The prevalence of thiazide use was higher among the glaucoma cases than among the controls (OR, 1.13; 95% CI, 1.04-1.23). Neither statins nor other antihypertensive treatments were associated with the risk of glaucoma. CONCLUSIONS. Oral beta(1) beta-blockers may protect against development of glaucoma. The current consensus on the relative importance of beta(2) receptor blockade in treating glaucoma may have to be reviewed. Changes in prescribing oral beta-blockers for cardiovascular disorders may affect the number of those who eventually have glaucoma. There is no evidence to suggest that statins have a preventive role in glaucoma.

UI  - 20118387
TI  - Effects of prescription omega-3-acid ethyl esters on non--high-density lipoprotein cholesterol when coadministered with escalating doses of atorvastatin.
AB  - Prescription omega-3-acid ethyl esters plus atorvastatin produced significant improvements in non-HDL-C and other lipid parameters in patients with elevated non-HDL-C and triglyceride levels.

UI  - 20110750
TI  - One-year treatment with rosuvastatin reduces intima-media thickness in 45 hypercholesterolemic subjects with asymptomatic carotid artery disease.
AB  - One-year treatment with rosuvastatin in hypercholesterolemic adults with evidenceof subclinical atherosclerosis significantly reduced the CIMT of both CCAs and improved the lipid and lipoprotein levels.

UI  - 20110160
TI  - A pilot comprehensive lifestyle intervention program (CLIP)--comparison with qualitative lifestyle advice and simvastatin on cardiovascular risk factors in overweight hypercholesterolaemic individuals.
AB  - The structured CLIP program was more effective than qualitative lifestyle advice in improving weight, waist circumference and LDL-cholesterol without adverse effects on plasma carotenoids over a 6 week period. This program may therefore assist in comprehensive risk factor management, although the sustainability of these benefits needs confirmation.

UI  - 20107198
TI  - Lack of suppression of circulating free fatty acids and hypercholesterolemia during weight loss on a high-fat, low-carbohydrate diet.
AB  - Weight loss was similar between diets, but only the high-fat diet increased LDL-cholesterol concentrations. This effect was related to the lack of suppression of both fasting and 24-h FFAs.

UI  - 20094802
TI  - Insoluble carob fiber rich in polyphenols lowers total and LDL cholesterol in hypercholesterolemic sujects.
AB  - Recently, polyphenols have been found to affect blood lipids in animals in a similar manner as soluble dietary fibre. The aim was to assess whether an insoluble dietary fiber very rich in polyphenols has a beneficial effect on serum lipids in humans. In a double-blind randomized placebo-controlled clinical study with parallel arms, 88 volunteers with hypercholesterolemia were randomly assigned to consume daily either, fiber with insoluble 84% polyphenols 4 g twice a day (n = 43) or placebo (n = 45). Serum total, LDL and HDL cholesterol and triglycerides were assessed at baseline and after 4 weeks. The insoluble polyphenols consumption reduced the total cholesterol by 17.8 +/- 6.1% (p < 0.05), LDL cholesterol by 22.5 +/- 8.9% (p < 0.001), LDL: HDL cholesterol ratio by 26.2 +/- 14.3% (p < 0.001) and triglycerides by 16.3 +/- 23.4% (p < 0.05) at the end of the study compared with baseline. No significant differences were found during the study time in the placebo group for the lipid profile. The consumption of fiber very rich in insoluble polyphenols shows beneficial effects on human blood lipid profile and may be effective in prevention and treatment of hyperlipemia.

UI  - 20080236
TI  - Long-term treatment with pitavastatin is effective and well tolerated by patients with primary hypercholesterolemia or combined dyslipidemia.
AB  - Pitavastatin 4mg once daily was effective and well tolerated during 52-weeks treatment in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia or combined dyslipidemia. Around three-quarters of patients achieved NCEP and EAS LDL-C targets at week 52, HDL-C levels rose continually during follow up, while changes in other efficacy parameters were sustained over the year-long study.

UI  - 20058576
TI  - A multicenter study in Malaysia to determine the efficacy and safety of a generic atorvastatin.
AB  - A multicenter study was conducted to assess the efficacy of a generic form of Atorvastatin (Ranbaxy's Storvas) in the treatment of Primary Hypercholesterolemia. One hundred and nineteen patients were given 10 mg of Storvas for four weeks and increased to 20 mg if target LDL-Cholesterol was not achieved. LDL-Cholesterol was reduced by 36.6% at four weeks and 37.5% at eight weeks from baseline. Total cholesterol and triglycerides were significantly reduced. There were no drug-related serious adverse events. We conclude that the generic atorvastatin is safe and effective in the treatment of primary hypercholesterolaemia and the results are comparable to published data on innovator atorvastatin.

UI  - 20045866
TI  - Pitavastatin decreases the expression of endothelial lipase both in vitro and in vivo.
AB  - These findings suggest that statins can reduce EL expression in vitro and in vivo via inhibition of RhoA activity. The inhibition of EL expression in the vessel wall may contribute to the anti-atherogenic effects of statins.

UI  - 20045568
TI  - Simvastatin and disease stabilization in normal tension glaucoma: a cohort study.
AB  - Simvastatin use may be associated with VF stabilization in patients with NTG. A larger scale randomized controlled trial and cost-effectiveness analyses seem warranted.

UI  - 20042191
TI  - Altering dietary lysine:arginine ratio has little effect on cardiovascular risk factors and vascular reactivity in moderately hypercholesterolemic adults.
AB  - Diets differing in Lys:Arg ratios had no or small effects on cardiovascular risk factors and vascular reactivity.

UI  - 20040882
TI  - Cardiovascular rehabilitation in patients with diabetes.
AB  - DM patients with coronary heart disease had a higher prevalence of cardiovascular disease risk factors as well as lower physical capacity than NDM patients at the beginning of rehabilitation. All patients demonstrated improvement in exercise capacity after rehabilitation. More importantly, the extent of the improvement was similar in DM and NDM patients. This study, which involved a large population, emphasizes the capacity of DM patients to fully benefit from a multidisciplinary risk factor management program, including exercise training and educational programs.

UI  - 20025830
TI  - Peanut consumption and cardiovascular risk.
AB  - Short-term peanut consumption might improve lipid profiles, the AIP and CHD risk in free-living hypercholesterolaemic men.

UI  - 20021624
TI  - Postprandial metabolic responses to dietary glycemic index in hypercholesterolemic postmenopausal women.
AB  - Cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of death in postmenopausal women. While diet and lifestyle remain the cornerstones of prevention, a low-fat/high-carbohydrate diet is associated with hyperglycemia and hyperlipemia-atherosclerotic risk factors affected by postprandial conditions. The objective of this study was to examine the acute response of lipids and insulin to a low-fat/high-carbohydrate meal with either a high-glycemic or a low-glycemic index in healthy postmenopausal women. Fifteen healthy postmenopausal women were enrolled in a randomized crossover dietary intervention study. Levels of glucose, triglyceride, free fatty acids (FFAs), and insulin were measured preprandially and for 240 minutes after consumption of the test meals. In response to the high-glycemic compared with the low-glycemic index meal, postprandial insulin levels had a higher peak (65.4 vs 48.1 microU/mL, respectively), the homeostasis model assessment-insulin resistance (HOMA-IR) was significantly higher (P=.014), serum triglyceride levels declined significantly (P<.001), and there was a small reduction in FFA levels, although the difference did not reach statistical significance. The results suggest a postprandial impact of glycemic index on cardiovascular metabolic biomarkers in postmenopausal women and may have implications for dietary glycemic modification of cardiovascular risk in women.

UI  - 20009956
TI  - Ezetimibe effect on bone mineral density and markers of bone formation and resorption.
AB  - Our study results showed a negative trend but did not demonstrate statistically significant changes of BMD and metabolic markers with the treatment of ezetimibe.

UI  - 20001658
TI  - Centralized Pan-European survey on the under-treatment of hypercholesterolaemia (CEPHEUS): overall findings from eight countries.
AB  - Only 55.3% of patients using LLD achieved the LDL-C target recommended in the 2003 European guidelines.

UI  - 19965781
TI  - Atorvastatin inhibits gp91phox circulating levels in patients with hypercholesterolemia.
AB  - Our study demonstrates that statins exert an antioxidant effect via inhibition of soluble gp91(phox) expression.

UI  - 19958861
TI  - Coronary heart disease in moderately hypercholesterolemic, hypertensive black and non-black patients randomized to pravastatin versus usual care: the antihypertensive and lipid lowering to prevent heart attack trial (ALLHAT-LLT).
AB  - Our results suggest that pravastatin is effective in preventing CHD in blacks.

UI  - 19946244
TI  - Safety and efficacy of combined ezetimibe/simvastatin treatment and simvastatin monotherapy in patients with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.
AB  - These results showed that both the combined ezetimibe/simvastatin treatment and the simvastatin monotherapy proved to be effective and safe in patients with NAFLD and in cases of high cardiovascular risk.

UI  - 19939653
TI  - Effect of a plant stanol ester-containing spread, placebo spread, or Mediterranean diet on estimated cardiovascular risk and lipid, inflammatory and haemostatic factors.
AB  - Plant stanol esters yielded an early, by 1st treatment month, reduction of eCVD risk that resulted from a TC, LDL-C, and hsCRP decrease. eCVD risk reduction on the Mediterranean diet resulted from a change in several CVD risk factors and equaled that of plant stanol at 4 months. The consumption of plant stanol esters by moderately hypercholesterolaemic patients may be a useful option to reduce CVD risk in those who do not adopt a Mediterranean diet.

UI  - 19914369
TI  - Effects of Campomanesia xanthocarpa on biochemical, hematological and oxidative stress parameters in hypercholesterolemic patients.
AB  - Confirming its popular use, the treatment with Campomanesia xanthocarpa encapsulated reduced blood TC and LDL levels in hypercholesterolemic patients.

UI  - 19911216
TI  - Combined treatment with Dif1stat and diet reduce plasma lipid indicators of moderate hypercholesterolemia more effectively than diet alone: a randomized trial in parallel groups.
AB  - An open-labeled randomized trial with parallel groups was carried out to study the effects of Dif1stat (Monascus purpureus-Linear aliphatic alcohols-Niacin) in the treatment of primary moderate hypercholesterolemia. The trial lasted 8 months. The patients, males and females, were assigned to two groups: A (#130), treated with diet, and B (#110) submitted to diet + Dif1stat. After 4 months, group A did not show significant changes in Total cholesterol (TC), LDL-cholesterol (LDLC), HDL-cholesterol (HDLC) or non-HDL-cholesterol (non-HDLC). The same group, showed a reduction in TC (-22%), LDLC (-30%) and non-HDLC (-27%) after 8 months (P < or = 0.001). After 4 months, TC (-21.3%), LDLC (-29%), and non-HDLC (-26%) were significantly lowered in group B (P < or = 0.001). In group B, TC, LDLC and non-HDLC showed a further reduction after 8 months: -29.4, -38 and -37%, respectively (P < or = 0.001). Even triglycerides (TG) decreased significantly (-33%) (P < or = 0.001). After 8 months, group B showed a significant reduction of TG (-33%) (P < or = 0.001), when compared to group A. Some safety parameters were significantly reduced in both groups: AST and gamma-GT in group A after 4 and 8 months, as well as ALT, AST and gamma-GT in group B after 8 months (P < or = 0.001). Dif1stat, given with a suitable diet, was well tolerated in the long-term and induced an anti-atherogenic plasma lipid and lipoprotein profile, in patients with moderate hypercholesterolemia.

UI  - 19892351
TI  - Statins improve visual field alterations related to hypercholesterolemia.
AB  - In subjects with hypercholesterolemia, the decrease of blood lipids improves visual field parameters. The major beneficial effect noted with pravastatin, compared to diet, suggests that this effect could be due to the lipid-lowering and pleiotropic actions.

UI  - 19889524
TI  - Evaluation of cardiovascular risk and oxidative stress parameters in hypercholesterolemic subjects on a standard healthy diet including low-fat milk enriched with plant sterols.
AB  - A healthy diet and plant sterols (PS) are recommended for reducing low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol and, subsequently, the risk of premature cardiovascular disease. PS mediate a decrease in fat-soluble vitamin concentration, which can lead to a general impairment of antioxidative defenses and an increase in oxidative stress. Thus, we evaluated the effects of a healthy diet, including PS-enriched low-fat milk, on cardiovascular risk and oxidative stress parameters in hypercholesterolemic subjects. This was a randomized parallel trial employing 40 subjects and consisting of two 3-month intervention phases. After 3 months on a standard healthy diet, subjects were divided into two intervention groups: a diet group and a diet+PS group (2 g/day). Lipid profile, apolipoproteins, high-sensitivity C-reactive protein and oxidative stress parameters were analyzed. Diet significantly reduced total and LDL cholesterol (4.0% and 4.7%, respectively), produced an increase in the level of beta-carotene (23%) and improved the antioxidant capacity of LDL cholesterol particles (4.6%). PS induced a significant decrease in total cholesterol (6.4%), LDL (9.9%) and the apolipoprotein B100/apolipoprotein A1 ratio (4.9%), but led to a decrease in cryptoxanthin level (29%) without any change being observed in the antioxidant capacity of LDL cholesterol particles, total antioxidant status or lipid peroxidation. After 3 months, we observed the positive effect of including a PS supplement in dietary measures, as the lipoprotein-mediated risk of cardiovascular disease was reduced. Despite a decrease in the concentration of cryptoxanthin, no evidence of a global impairment of antioxidative defenses or an enhancement of oxidative stress parameters was found.

UI  - 19881236
TI  - Rosuvastatin increased serum osteocalcin levels independent of its serum cholesterol-lowering effect in patients with type 2 diabetes and hypercholesterolemia.
AB  - Rosuvastatin may have a beneficial effect on bone metabolism in patients with type 2 diabetes and hypercholesterolemia by stimulating osteoblast function and bone formation, which seems to be independent of its cholesterol-lowering effect.

UI  - 19875426
TI  - Effect of tailored practice and patient care plans on secondary prevention of heart disease in general practice: cluster randomised controlled trial.
AB  - Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN24081411.

UI  - 19865092
TI  - Atorvastatin improves the response to sildenafil in hypercholesterolemic men with erectile dysfunction not initially responsive to sildenafil.
AB  - Despite the initial enthusiasm, the significant number of patients in whom sildenafil is contraindicated or ineffective is a major challenge to all urologists. Our aim was to determine the safety and efficacy of adjunctive atorvastatin in restoring normal erectile function in hypercholesterolemic (low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol >120 mg per 100 ml) sildenafil nonresponders. The study comprised 131 men with ED not responding to sildenafil citrate. They were randomized either to 40 mg atorvastatin daily (n=66, group 1) or matching placebo (n=65, group 2) for 12 weeks while they were taking on-demand 100 mg sildenafil. Erectile function was subjectively assessed using the 5-item version of the International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF-5) questionnaire and response to the global efficacy question (GEQ). Serum biochemical and lipid profile (total cholesterol, triglycerides, LDL cholesterol and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol) analyses were performed at baseline and repeated at post-treatment weeks 6 and 12. Compared with the placebo group (59 patients, mean age+/-s.d. 61.9+/-6.1, mean years ED 3.9+/-1.8), the atorvastatin group (59 patients, mean age+/-s.d. 63.9+/-6.9, mean years ED 3.7+/-1.6) had significantly greater improvements in all IIEF-5 questions (P=0.01) and GEQ (P=0.001). Subgroup analyses did reveal trends in the atorvastatin group to indicate that a change in the IIEF-5 score is affected by age, severity of ED and baseline serum levels of LDL. Patients with moderate (r=0.28, P=0.01) and severe (r=0.20, P=0.01) ED had better positive response rates to adjunctive atorvastatin than patients with mild to moderate ED. None of the patients taking atorvastatin achieved a response of 5 to the IIEF-5 questions and none of the patients regained normal erectile function as defined by the IIEF-5 score >21. Subjects experienced a statistically significant but modest improvement in erectile function. Further investigation is needed to test the usefulness of long-term atorvastatin administration to restore erectile function in sildenafil nonresponders.

UI  - 19856791
TI  - Effects of increasing the dose of pravastatin on serum adiponectin level in Japanese mild hypercholesterolemic and hypertensive patients.
AB  - The plasma level of adiponectin (CAS 1070484-33-1), known as an anti-atherogenic adipocytokine, inversely correlates with the progression of atherosclerosis. The reported effects of statins on the serum level of adiponectin include significant increases in the adiponectin levels caused by pravastatin (CAS 81131-70-6). In this study, increasing the dosage of pravastatin was investigated to determine whether it had a clearly favorable effect on the adiponectin level in hypercholesterolemic patients. A total of 26 mild hypercholesterolemic and hypertensive patients were enrolled in this study. The patients were initially treated with pravastatin 10 mg/day for 6 months or more, and then increased to pravastatin 20 mg/day. Serum adiponectin, cholesterol fractionated components, and lipoprotein components were evaluated after 6 months. Increasing the dose of pravastatin from 10 to 20 mg/day caused the low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels to decrease (from 130 to 104 mg/dL, p < 0.001), and thereafter the serum adiponectin levels, particularly the high-molecular-weight adiponectin levels significantly increased (from 10.9 to 12.6 microg/mL, p = 0.022; from 6.6 to 7.6 microg/mL, p = 0.022, respectively). Pravastatin increased the serum adiponectin level after increasing the dosage from 10 to 20 mg/day. It remains possible, however, that the difference was due not only to pharmacologic effects, but also to other specific characteristics such as the subject characteristics, viz.; race, body size, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, etc.

UI  - 19843338
TI  - Low and moderate-fat plant sterol fortified soymilk in modulation of plasma lipids and cholesterol kinetics in subjects with normal to high cholesterol concentrations: report on two randomized crossover studies.
AB  - We conclude that, compared to 1% dairy milk, consumption of low and moderate-fat PS-enriched soy beverages represents an effective dietary strategy to reduce circulating lipid concentrations in normal to hypercholesterolemic individuals by reducing intestinal cholesterol absorption. TRIAL REGISTRATION (CLINICALTRIALS.GOV): NCT00923403 (Study 1), NCT00924391 (Study 2).

UI  - 19841362
TI  - Statin use and the risk of surgical site infections in elderly patients undergoing elective surgery.
AB  - Statin use is not associated with an altered risk of surgical site infection. Prevention efforts should be directed toward other evidence-based strategies.

UI  - 19834827
TI  - Usefulness of aggressive lipid-lowering therapy with rosuvastatin in hypercholesterolemic patients with concomitant type 2 diabetes.
AB  - 

UI  - 19833861
TI  - Laropiprant in combination with extended-release niacin does not alter urine 11-dehydrothromboxane B2, a marker of in vivo platelet function, in healthy, hypercholesterolemic, and diabetic subjects.
AB  - Laropiprant, an antagonist of the PGD(2) receptor, DP1, is effective in reducing the flushing symptoms associated with extended-release (ER) niacin and thereby improves the tolerability of niacin therapy for dyslipidemia. Because PGD(2) has been reported to inhibit platelet aggregation in vitro, it has been speculated that antagonism of DP1 may enhance platelet reactivity. Three clinical studies evaluated the potential effect of laropiprant, with or without coadministration of ER niacin, on in vivo platelet function in healthy subjects and hypercholesterolemic or diabetic subjects by measuring urinary levels of 11-dehydrothromboxane B(2) (11-dTxB(2)), a marker of in vivo platelet activation. Following 7 days of multiple-dose administration, coadministration of laropiprant with ER niacin did not increase urinary 11-dTxB(2) levels compared to ER niacin alone in healthy, hypercholesterolemic, or diabetic subjects. In hypercholesterolemic and diabetic subjects, laropiprant did not increase urinary 11-dTxB(2) levels compared to placebo. These results demonstrate that laropiprant does not enhance in vivo platelet reactivity, either alone or in combination with niacin.

UI  - 19825218
TI  - The potential health benefits of legumes as a good source of dietary fibre.
AB  - Dietary fibre has been shown to have important health implications in the prevention of risks of chronic diseases. The objective of the present study was to determine the potential health benefits of legumes as a good source of dietary fibre. Six to ten local legumes were studied as follows: cowpeas, mung beans, pole sitao, chickpeas, green peas, groundnuts, pigeon peas, kidney beans, lima beans and soyabeans. The following studies were conducted: (a) mineral availability, in vitro; (b) glycaemic index (GI) in non-diabetic and diabetic human subjects; (c) the cholesterol-lowering effect in human subjects with moderately raised serum cholesterol levels. The highest Fe availability among legumes was for lima beans (9.5 (sem 0.1)) while for Zn and Ca, the highest availability was for kidney beans (49.3 (sem 4.5)) and pigeon peas (75.1 (sem 7.1)), respectively. Groundnuts have the lowest Fe (1.3 (sem 1.1)), Zn (7.9 (sem 1.3)) and Ca (14.6 (sem 2.8)) availability. Legumes are low-GI foods ( < 55), ranging from 6 (chickpeas) to 13 (mung beans). Kidney beans showed significant reductions for both total (6 %) and LDL-cholesterol (9 %), and groundnuts for total cholesterol (7 %; P < 0.05). We conclude that mineral availability from legumes differs and may be attributed to their mineral content, mineral-mineral interaction and from their phytic and tannic acid content; legumes are considered low-GI foods and have shown potential hypocholesterolaemic effects. The above studies can be a scientific basis for considering legumes as functional foods.

UI  - 19825213
TI  - Effect of fermented milk containing Lactobacillus acidophilus and Bifidobacterium longum on plasma lipids of women with normal or moderately elevated cholesterol.
AB  - This study aimed to evaluate the effect of milk fermented with Lactobacillus acidophilus 145 and Bifidobacterium longum BB536 on plasma lipids in a sample of adult women. A double-blind, placebo controlled, cross-over study (two periods of four weeks each separated by a 1-week washout period) was performed in 34 women, aged between 18 and 65 years. Group A consumed 125 g fermented milk three times a day for the first 4 weeks while group B consumed regular yoghurt under the same conditions. (Groups A and B switched products for the second treatment period). Women taking the test product with a baseline total cholesterol above 190 mg/dl showed a significant reduction in LDL cholesterol. HDL cholesterol was also reduced by the test product. We conclude that the fermented milk may help to reduce LDL levels in hypercholesterolemic adult women.

UI  - 19812459
TI  - Prevention of dementia by intensive vascular care (PreDIVA): a cluster-randomized trial in progress.
AB  - In this older age group, the very high percentage of elderly subjects with cardiovascular risk factors illustrates the large window of opportunity for therapies directed to lower the cardiovascular risk and potentially also the risk for dementia.

UI  - 19810001
TI  - Rosuvastatin does not affect intrarenal hemodynamics in patients with hypercholesterolemia.
AB  - The beneficial effects on renal function by statin treatment seem not to be mediated by changes in intrarenal hemodynamics in patients with hypercholesterolemia.

UI  - 19798074
TI  - Metabolic syndrome and changes in body fat from a low-fat diet and/or exercise randomized controlled trial.
AB  - It is difficult to identify the successful component(s) related to changes in metabolic syndrome (MetS) from lifestyle interventions: the weight loss, the behavior change, or the combination. The purpose of this study is to determine the effects of a weight-stable randomized controlled trial of low-fat diet and exercise, alone and in combination, on MetS. Men (n = 179) and postmenopausal women (n = 149) with elevated low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) and low high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) were randomized into a 1-year, weight-stable trial with four treatment groups: control (C), diet (D), exercise (E), or diet plus exercise (D+E). MetS was defined using a continuous score. Changes in MetS score (DeltaMetS) were compared between groups using analysis of covariance, stratified by gender and using two models, with and without baseline and change in percent body fat (DeltaBF) as a covariate. In men, DeltaMetS was higher for D vs. C (P = 0.04), D+E vs. C (P = 0.0002), and D+E vs. E (P = 0.02). For women, DeltaMetS was greater for D vs. C (P = 0.045), E vs. C (P = 0.02), and D+E vs. C (P = 0.004). After adjusting for DeltaBF, all differences between groups were attenuated and no longer significant. DeltaMetS were associated with DeltaBF for both men (P < 0.0001) and women (P = 0.004). After adjustment for DeltaBF, low-fat diet alone and in combination with exercise had no effect on MetS. The key component for MetS from low-fat diet and/or increased physical activity appears to be body fat loss.

UI  - 19792058
TI  - Prevalence of cardiovascular risk factors in older people with intellectual disability.
AB  - The prevalence and correlates of cardiovascular risk factors in older adults with intellectual disability was examined. We conducted a cross-sectional study with 50- to 90-year-old clients (N = 470) of three Dutch intellectual disability care providing organizations and found that healthy behavior was low, with 98.9% of the participants having an unhealthy diet and 68.3%, a lack of exercise. Smoking (13.6%) and alcohol abuse (0.3%) were relatively minor problems. Abdominal overweight (70.4%), diabetes (8.7%), hypertension (36.8%), and hypercholesterolemia (31.8%) were highly prevalent. These profiles have important implications in determining the risk of cardiovascular disease in people with intellectual disability. Campaigns to promote health should be focused on education and the introduction of preventive screening programs.

UI  - 19785568
TI  - Comparison of pitavastatin with simvastatin in primary hypercholesterolaemia or combined dyslipidaemia.
AB  - As compared with simvastatin, an established first-line lipid-lowering agent, pitavastatin is an efficacious treatment choice in patients with primary hypercholesterolaemia or combined dyslipidaemia.

UI  - 19784816
TI  - Intensive cholesterol-lowering therapy improves large artery elasticity in acute myocardial infarction patients.
AB  - This study was aimed at probing the effects of intensive cholesterol-lowering therapy with simvastatin on the large artery elasticity of acute myocardial infarction patients. A total of 72 cases of acute myocardial infarction patients were divided into a normocholesterol group (n = 37) and a hypercholesterol group (n = 35) according to their serum low-density lipoprotein. All patients were given oral simvastatin 40 mg/day for 6 months, and their pulse-wave velocity (PWV) of different artery segments and ankle-brachial index (ABI) were measured before and after the therapy. The low-density lipoprotein cholesterol level in both groups decreased significantly (2.13 +/- 0.32 vs 1.56 +/- 0.28, 3.43 +/- 0.80 vs 2.28 +/- 0.47 mmol/l, P < 0.01). The PWV of each artery segment in both the normocholesterol group and the hypercholesterol group decreased significantly (P < 0.05). Pulse-wave velocity in the hypercholesterol group was lowered much more than that of the normocholesterol group (P < 0.05). There were no differences among each artery segment in each group. Ankle-brachial index increased significantly in both groups (1.12 +/- 0.16 to 1.22 +/- 0.12, P < 0.05 in the normocholesterol group, and 1.03 +/- 0.22 to 1.23 +/- 0.16, P < 0.01 in the hypercholesterol group), but ABI increased much more in the hypercholesterol group than in the normocholesterol group (0.21 + 0.15 vs 0.11 + 0.09 P = 0.02). Intensive cholesterol-lowering therapy with simvastatin for acute myocardial infarction patients can significantly improve their large artery elasticity and regress their atherosclerosis. Hypercholesterol patients benefit more from this therapy.

UI  - 19782361
TI  - Low-dose atorvastatin improves dyslipidemia and vascular function in patients with primary biliary cirrhosis after one year of treatment.
AB  - Treatment with low-dose atorvastatin is safe in early-stage PBC, effectively reduces total cholesterol, LDL-C, LDL triglycerides, oxLDL and sVCAM-1 and improves vascular function as reflected by FMD, without affecting cholestasis progression. Therefore, statin therapy should be considered in PBC patients with additional risk factors for cardiovascular disease.

UI  - 19774436
TI  - Very high plant stanol intake and serum plant stanols and non-cholesterol sterols.
AB  - Serum plant stanol levels remained at comparable low levels as in studies with daily intake of 2-3 g, and were normalized in 4 weeks suggesting that daily intake of 8.8 g of plant stanols might not increase systemic availability of plant stanols, but reduces effectively serum cholesterol and plant sterol levels.

UI  - 19770669
TI  - Pleiotropic effects with equivalent low-density lipoprotein cholesterol reduction: comparative study between simvastatin and simvastatin/ezetimibe coadministration.
AB  - The 2 forms of treatment presented similar pleiotropic effects: improvement in endothelial function and decrease in hs-CRP levels.

UI  - 19770624
TI  - Short-term ezetimibe is well tolerated and effective in combination with statin therapy to treat elevated LDL cholesterol in HIV-infected patients.
AB  - The present short-term study found adding ezetimibe to ongoing statin therapy was well tolerated and effective in reducing LDL-C, total cholesterol, non-HDL-C, and apolipoprotein B. Adding ezetimibe to statin therapy offers reasonable treatment option for HIV-infected patients with elevated LDL-C.

UI  - 19766902
TI  - Effect of folate supplementation on serum homocysteine and plasma total antioxidant capacity in hypercholesterolemic adults under lovastatin treatment: a double-blind randomized controlled clinical trial.
AB  - Folate supplementation decreases the serum level of Hcy and increases TAC. It seems that a pharmacological dose of folate supplementation could potentially decrease the risk of cardiovascular diseases by reducing serum level of Hcy in adults with hypercholesterolemia.

UI  - 19745172
TI  - Statin treatment and stroke outcome in the Stroke Prevention by Aggressive Reduction in Cholesterol Levels (SPARCL) trial.
AB  - The present exploratory analysis suggests that the outcome of recurrent ischemic cerebrovascular events might be improved among statin users as compared with nonusers.

UI  - 19739939
TI  - Clinical experience with ezetimibe/simvastatin in a Mediterranean population.
AB  - Treatment with the EZE/SIMVA combination appears an effective and safe therapeutic option for patients who do not achieve the LDL-C goals on statin therapy alone.

UI  - 19736596
TI  - A novel green tea meal replacement formula for weight loss among obese individuals: a randomized controlled clinical trial.
AB  - This green tea meal replacement formula contributes to the lower body weight and reduced low-density lipoprotein cholesterol level.

UI  - 19709787
TI  - The effect of a very high daily plant stanol ester intake on serum lipids, carotenoids, and fat-soluble vitamins.
AB  - High intake of plant stanols reduced LDL cholesterol values without any other side effects than reduction of serum beta-carotene concentration. However, the end product, serum vitamin A levels, were unchanged. The results suggest that plant stanol ester intake can be increased to induce a greater cholesterol lowering effect.

UI  - 19699071
TI  - Effects of a nutraceutical combination (berberine, red yeast rice and policosanols) on lipid levels and endothelial function randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study.
AB  - This NC reduces cholesterol levels. The reduction is associated with improved endothelial function and insulin sensitivity.

UI  - 19699070
TI  - Prospective evaluation of the effect of statins on blood pressure control in hypertensive patients in clinical practice.
AB  - Our study suggests a BP-lowering effect of statins, consistent with some other literature. Some parameters like age, baseline systolic blood pressure and cholesterolemia influence the antihypertensive effect of statins. The lack of consideration for these confounding factors may be one of the reasons for the conflicting results about the BP lowering effects of statins.

UI  - 19695854
TI  - Applicability of non-cholesterol sterols in predicting response in cholesterol metabolism to simvastatin and fluvastatin treatment among hypercholesterolemic men.
AB  - Low serum baseline ratios to cholesterol of lathosterol, cholestenol and desmosterol, but a high ratio of cholestanol predicted a poor response to statins. Good responders were characterized by more profound reductions of serum and fecal (lathosterol) precursor sterols and increases of serum absorption marker sterol ratios on statins. Serum surrogate sterol markers of cholesterol metabolism were applicable in evaluating cholesterol absorption and synthesis also on statins.

UI  - 19694438
TI  - Consumption of yerba mate ( Ilex paraguariensis ) improves serum lipid parameters in healthy dyslipidemic subjects and provides an additional LDL-cholesterol reduction in individuals on statin therapy.
AB  - The objective of this study was to verify the effect of yerba mate (Ilex paraguariensis) consumption on lipid and lipoprotein levels in humans. One hundred and two individuals participated of this single-blind controlled trial. Normolipidemic (n = 15), dyslipidemic (n = 57), and hypercholesterolemic subjects on long-term statin therapy (n = 30) ingested 330 mL, 3 times/day, of green or roasted yerba mate infusions for 40 days. In normolipidemic subjects, yerba mate consumption reduced LDL-cholesterol by 8.7% (p < 0.05). Compared with the baseline period, yerba mate intake by dyslipidemic individuals for 20 and 40 days lowered LDL-cholesterol by 8.1 and 8.6% (p < 0.001) and non-HDL cholesterol by 5.4 and 6.5% (p < 0.01). After 20 days of yerba mate intake, apolipoprotein B was reduced by 6.0% (p < 0.05) and HDL-cholesterol was increased by 4.4% (p < 0.01). In all participants triglyceride levels remained unchanged. The consumption of yerba mate by hypercholesterolemic individuals on statin therapy promoted additional 10.0 and 13.1% reductions in LDL-C after 20 and 40 days, respectively (p < 0.001) and increased HDL-cholesterol by 6.2% after 40 days (p < 0.05). It was thus concluded that intake of yerba mate infusion improved the lipid parameters in normolipidemic and dyslipidemic subjects and provided an additional LDL-cholesterol reduction in hypercholesterolemic subjects on statin treatment, which may reduce the risk for cardiovascular diseases.

UI  - 19694216
TI  - Simvastatin increases clot permeability and susceptibility to lysis in patients with LDL cholesterol below 3.4 mmol/l.
AB  - Simvastatin exerts unique properties involving enhanced fibrin clot lysis and increased clot permeability in subjects with LDL cholesterol <3.4 mmol/l, which is associated with its anti-inflammatory effects. Altered fibrin clot function might contribute to clinical benefits of statins.

UI  - 19694195
TI  - Ezetimibe as monotherapy in the treatment of hypercholesterolemia in children and adolescents.
AB  - Our data show that ezetimibe as monotherapy significantly lowered TC and LDL-C in children with PH and FH.

UI  - 19691615
TI  - Potential savings without compromising the quality of care.
AB  - A substantial amount of money can be saved in primary care without compromising the quality of care by using recommended first-line drugs for the treatment diabetes, hypertension and hypercholesterolaemia.

UI  - 19680704
TI  - Lupin protein compared to casein lowers the LDL cholesterol:HDL cholesterol-ratio of hypercholesterolemic adults.
AB  - Lupin protein compared to casein slightly lowered the concentration of LDL cholesterol in hypercholesterolemic subjects, without altering HDL cholesterol. No or minor effects of lupin protein were observed on circulating glucose, homocysteine and plasma amino acids.

UI  - 19670953
TI  - Outcomes of patients discharged from pharmacy-managed cardiovascular disease management.
AB  - This study demonstrated that LDL-C measures can remain controlled in most patients discharged from a cardiac disease management program.

UI  - 19660610
TI  - Correlation of non-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol with apolipoprotein B during simvastatin + fenofibrate therapy in patients with combined hyperlipidemia (a subanalysis of the SAFARI trial).
AB  - Guidelines have recommended non-high-density lipoprotein (non-HDL) cholesterol as a secondary target for therapy after the low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol goals have been met in patients with hypertriglyceridemia; non-HDL cholesterol is viewed as a surrogate for apolipoprotein (Apo)B, an alternate end point of treatment. The present analysis of the previously reported Simvastatin plus Fenofibrate for Combined Hyperlipidemia (SAFARI) trial assessed the associations of non-HDL cholesterol and LDL cholesterol with ApoB levels in patients with combined hyperlipidemia treated with combination simvastatin (20 mg) and fenofibrate (160 mg) or simvastatin monotherapy (20 mg). The correlations of these factors were analyzed in the overall modified intent-to-treat population (n = 594) and in patient subgroups stratified by triglyceride (TG) tertiles. Simvastatin plus fenofibrate and simvastatin alone significantly reduced LDL cholesterol, TG, non-HDL cholesterol and ApoB levels and non-HDL cholesterol/ApoB ratio (p < or =0.0004), regardless of the TG level. The greatest reductions occurred with combination treatment. The baseline levels of non-HDL cholesterol and LDL cholesterol correlated highly with ApoB and were stronger in the lower TG tertiles than in the higher TG tertiles. After 12 weeks, the correlations had changed little with simvastatin monotherapy but had increased substantially with combination therapy and were most improved at high TG levels. In conclusion, these results suggest that both non-HDL cholesterol and ApoB provide similar information in relation to treatment response in patients with combined hyperlipidemia and hypertriglyceridemia, and that non-HDL cholesterol is a good indicator of ApoB-containing lipoproteins, supporting its recommended use as a secondary therapeutic target in these patients.
