
UI  - 25075853
TI  - Dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine failure in Cambodia.
AB  - 

UI  - 25075834
TI  - Spread of artemisinin resistance in Plasmodium falciparum malaria.
AB  - Artemisinin resistance to P. falciparum, which is now prevalent across mainland Southeast Asia, is associated with mutations in kelch13. Prolonged courses of artemisinin-based combination therapies are currently efficacious in areas where standard 3-day treatments are failing. (Funded by the U.K. Department of International Development and others; ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT01350856.).

UI  - 25075833
TI  - Spiroindolone KAE609 for falciparum and vivax malaria.
AB  - KAE609, at dose of 30 mg daily for 3 days, cleared parasitemia rapidly in adults with uncomplicated P. vivax or P. falciparum malaria. (Funded by Novartis and others; ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT01524341.).

UI  - 24948695
TI  - Rapid diagnostic tests to improve treatment of malaria and other febrile illnesses: patient randomised effectiveness trial in primary care clinics in Afghanistan.
AB  - In South and central Asian regions of low to moderate malaria transmission where clinics lack capacity for diagnosis with rapid diagnostic tests or microscopy, the introduction of the tests should be considered to improve clinical care, reduce the overuse of antimalarials, and improve disease surveillance.

UI  - 24760153
TI  - Kinetics of B cell responses to Plasmodium falciparum erythrocyte membrane protein 1 in Ghanaian women naturally exposed to malaria parasites.
AB  - Naturally acquired protective immunity to Plasmodium falciparum malaria takes years to develop. It relies mainly on Abs, particularly IgG specific for Plasmodium falciparum erythrocyte membrane protein 1 (PfEMP1) proteins on the infected erythrocyte surface. It is only partially understood why acquisition of clinical protection takes years to develop, but it probably involves a range of immune-evasive parasite features, not least of which are PfEMP1 polymorphism and clonal variation. Parasite-induced subversion of immunological memory and expansion of "atypical" memory B cells may also contribute. In this first, to our knowledge, longitudinal study of its kind, we measured B cell subset composition, as well as PfEMP1-specific Ab levels and memory B cell frequencies, in Ghanaian women followed from early pregnancy up to 1 y after delivery. Cell phenotypes and Ag-specific B cell function were assessed three times during and after pregnancy. Levels of IgG specific for pregnancy-restricted, VAR2CSA-type PfEMP1 increased markedly during pregnancy and declined after delivery, whereas IgG levels specific for two PfEMP1 proteins not restricted to pregnancy did not. Changes in VAR2CSA-specific memory B cell frequencies showed typical primary memory induction among primigravidae and recall expansion among multigravidae, followed by contraction postpartum in all. No systematic changes in the frequencies of memory B cells specific for the two other PfEMP1 proteins were identified. The B cell subset analysis confirmed earlier reports of high atypical memory B cell frequencies among residents of P. falciparum-endemic areas, and indicated an additional effect of pregnancy. Our study provides new knowledge regarding immunity to P. falciparum malaria and underpins efforts to develop PfEMP1-based vaccines against this disease.

UI  - 24683711
TI  - Bug bites: a Maryland menu.
AB  - 

UI  - 24641533
TI  - Indirect causes of severe adverse maternal outcomes: a secondary analysis of the WHO Multicountry Survey on Maternal and Newborn Health.
AB  - Indirect causes were responsible for about one-fifth of severe maternal outcomes. Women with underlying indirect causes had significantly increased risks of severe maternal and perinatal outcomes.

UI  - 24615137
TI  - Pharmacokinetics of artesunate alone and in combination with sulfadoxine/pyrimethamine in healthy Sudanese volunteers.
AB  - Artesunate (AS) in combination with sulfadoxine/pyrimethamine (SP) is the first-line therapy for management of uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in Sudan. The objective of this study was to assess the potential impact of SP on the pharmacokinetics of AS and its active metabolite, dihydroartemisinin (DHA), in healthy adults. A single-dose, randomized, open-label, crossover study design with a washout period of three weeks was performed with 16 volunteers. After oral administration of AS alone or in combination with SP, Tmax values of AS and DHA were significantly prolonged in the combination group (P < 0.05). However, there was no significant effect on the other pharmacokinetic parameters (P > 0.05). The t1/2 values of AS and DHA were significantly higher in females than in males (P < 0.05). The present findings suggest that co-administration of SP with AS has no clinically relevant impact on the pharmacokinetics of AS or DHA in healthy persons.

UI  - 24615132
TI  - Impact of mass azithromycin distribution on malaria parasitemia during the low-transmission season in Niger: a cluster-randomized trial.
AB  - We assessed the effect of mass azithromycin treatment on malaria parasitemia in a trachoma trial in Niger. Twenty-four study communities received treatment during the wet, high-transmission season. Twelve of the 24 communities were randomized to receive an additional treatment during the dry, low-transmission season. Outcome measurements were conducted at the community-level in children < 1-72 months of age in May-June 2011. Parasitemia was higher in the 12 once-treated communities (29.8%, 95% confidence interval [CI] = 21.5-40.0%) than in the 12 twice-treated communities (19.5%, 95% CI = 13.0-26.5%, P = 0.03). Parasite density was higher in once-treated communities (354 parasites/L, 95% CI = 117-528 parasites/L) than in twice-treated communities (74 parasites/L, 95% CI = 41-202 parasites/L, P = 0.03). Mass distribution of azithromycin reduced malaria parasitemia 4-5 months after the intervention. The results suggest that drugs with antimalaria activity can have long-lasting impacts on malaria during periods of low transmission.

UI  - 24494602
TI  - Effectiveness of artesunate-amodiaquine vs. artemether-lumefantrine for the treatment of uncomplicated falciparum malaria in Nanoro, Burkina Faso: a non-inferiority randomised trial.
AB  - Despite a lower cure rate than those reported in efficacy studies in which the treatment administration was directly observed, both AL and ASAQ can still be used for the treatment of uncomplicated malaria in Burkina Faso.

UI  - 24437307
TI  - The effect of zinc and vitamin C supplementation on hemoglobin and hematocrit levels and immune response in patients with Plasmodium vivax malaria.
AB  - Plasmodium vivax infection in humans can relapse and is associated with iron deficiency. The immune response plays an important role in preventing relapse. In this study we analyzed the effect of zinc and vitamin C supplementation on hemoglobin and hematocrit levels and immune response in patients with P. vivax malaria. We measured immune response by examining interferon gamma (IFN-gamma) and interleukin-10 (IL-10) levels. Subjects were divided into either treatment or control groups. The treatment group received daily zinc and vitamin C supplementation for 45 days. Compliance with supplement consumption was recorded weekly. After 45 days of supplementation, IFN-gamma and IL-1 levels were remeasured. All study subjects in both groups had normal hemoglobin and hematocrit levels. The hemoglobin levels increased only in the supplementation group (p=0.011), while hematocrit levels increased in both the supplementation (p=0.001) and control (p=0.023) groups. IFN-gamma decreased slightly in the supplementation group, but the change was not significant (p=0.688). IL-10 increased slightly in both the supplementation and the control groups, but the change were not significant (p=0.421 and p=0.556, respectively), suggesting the elevated hemoglobin and hematocrit levels were unrelated to immune response.

UI  - 24422726
TI  - Blood oxidative stress markers and Plasmodium falciparum malaria in non-immune African children.
AB  - Converging in vitro evidence and clinical data indicate that oxidative stress may play important roles in Plasmodium falciparum malaria, notably in the pathogenesis of severe anaemia. However, oxidative modifications of the red blood cell (RBC)-membrane by 4-hydroxynonenal (4-HNE) and haemoglobin-binding, previously hypothesized to contribute mechanistically to the pathogenesis of clinical malaria, have not yet been tested for clinical significance. In 349 non-immune Mozambican newborns recruited in a double-blind placebo-controlled chemoprophylaxis trial, oxidative markers including 4-HNE-conjugates and membrane-bound haemoglobin were longitudinally assessed from 25 to 24months of age, at first acute malaria episode and in convalescence. During acute malaria, 4-HNE-conjugates were shown to increase significantly in parasitized and non-parasitized RBCs. In parallel, advanced oxidation protein products (AOPP) rose in plasma. 4-HNE-conjugates correlated with AOPP and established plasma but not with RBC oxidative markers. High individual levels of 4-HNE-conjugates were predictive for increased malaria incidence rates in children until 2years of life and elevated 4-HNE-conjugates in convalescence accompanied sustained anaemia after a malaria episode, indicating 4-HNE-conjugates as a novel patho-mechanistic factor in malaria. A second oxidative marker, haemoglobin binding to RBC-membranes, hypothesized to induce clearing of RBCs from circulation, was predictive for lower malaria incidence rates. Further studies will show whether or not higher membrane-haemoglobin values at the first malaria episode may provide protection against malaria.

UI  - 24415277
TI  - Quantification of food and nutrient intakes in Zambian children with and without malaria under controlled feeding conditions.
AB  - Vitamin A supplementation improves status, which may protect against malarial infection. Provitamin A carotenoid biofortified staple crops may provide a more sustainable approach to alleviate vitamin A deficiency than supplementation, but the impact of febrile illness on food intake must be considered in malaria endemic regions. Morbidity data and food logs from a three-month efficacy trial on provitamin A biofortified (orange) maize in preschool Zambian children (n=181, age 3-5 years) were systematically analyzed over time to determine the impact of malaria on food intake. Nutrients examined included macronutrients, iron, zinc, and vitamin A. Comparisons based on individual intakes in healthy and malarial states over three-day intervals were made including children from both the orange and white maize groups (n=100). Malaria prevalence did not differ overall or between treatment groups over time (all P>0.05). Lower nutrient intakes were observed for all variables during malaria outbreaks (food 289412g; energy 248346kcal; carbohydrate 4262g; protein 812g; fat 57g; iron 12mg; zinc 11mg; vitamin A 58100 retinol activity equivalents; all P<0.05). No differences were observed between nutrient decreases in orange and white maize groups (P>0.05). Considering the impact of malaria on food and nutrient intakes and increased vitamin A utilization and excretion due to the acute phase response, biofortification targets for provitamin A carotenoids may need to be elevated in malaria endemic regions.

UI  - 24382064
TI  - A randomized trial of prolonged co-trimoxazole in HIV-infected children in Africa.
AB  - Continuing co-trimoxazole prophylaxis after 96 weeks of ART was beneficial, as compared with stopping prophylaxis, with fewer hospitalizations for both malaria and infection not related to malaria. (Funded by the United Kingdom Medical Research Council and others; ARROW Current Controlled Trials number, ISRCTN24791884.).

UI  - 24378018
TI  - Acceptability by community health workers in Senegal of combining community case management of malaria and seasonal malaria chemoprevention.
AB  - Combining CCMm and SMC is a well accepted, community-based approach that can contribute to control malaria in areas where malaria transmission is seasonal.

UI  - 24376273
TI  - Delayed hemolysis after treatment with parenteral artesunate in African children with severe malaria--a double-center prospective study.
AB  - Pan-African Clinical Trials Registry: PACTR201102000277177 (www.pactr.org).

UI  - 24363547
TI  - The effect of cotrimoxazole prophylactic treatment on malaria, birth outcomes, and postpartum CD4 count in HIV-infected women.
AB  - Compared to IPTp, CPT provided comparable protection against malaria in HIV-infected pregnant women and against preterm birth or low birth weight. Possible implications of CPT-associated lower CD4 postpartum warrant further examination.

UI  - 24360369
TI  - Tafenoquine plus chloroquine for the treatment and relapse prevention of Plasmodium vivax malaria (DETECTIVE): a multicentre, double-blind, randomised, phase 2b dose-selection study.
AB  - GlaxoSmithKline, Medicines for Malaria Venture.

UI  - 24334946
TI  - Anaemia and severe malarial anaemia burden in febrile Gabonese children: a nine-year health facility based survey.
AB  - The decreasing malaria prevalence previously observed in Gabon between 2000 and 2008 was not associated with a significant reduction of anaemia and SMA burden among children. Furthermore, other factors such as nutritional deficiencies, which may not be negligible, must be investigated in this vulnerable population.

UI  - 24334945
TI  - Efficacy of artemisinin combination therapy for the treatment of uncomplicated falciparum malaria in Nigerian children.
AB  - Five years after being introduced in Nigeria, both Coartem and Larimal have been shown to be safe and highly effective in the treatment of uncomplicated P. falciparum malaria in children.

UI  - 24330422
TI  - Impact of vitamin A with zinc supplementation on malaria morbidity in Ghana.
AB  - Our study confirms a significant role of vitamin A and zinc in reducing malaria morbidity.

UI  - 24326597
TI  - Virologic and immunologic outcomes of HIV-infected Ugandan children randomized to lopinavir/ritonavir or nonnucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor therapy.
AB  - LPV/r-based ART was not associated with worse virologic efficacy, immunologic efficacy, or adverse event rates compared with NNRTI-based ART. Considering these results and the reduction in malaria incidence associated with LPV/r previously reported for this trial, wider use of LPV/r to treat HIV-infected African children in similar malaria-endemic settings could be considered.

UI  - 24309414
TI  - Supportive supervision: an effective intervention in achieving high quality malaria case management at primary health care level in Jos, Nigeria.
AB  - This study has demonstrated that supportive supervision is a feasible and practicable tool in improving knowledge and practice of malaria case management among PHC workers.

UI  - 24303947
TI  - Analysis of human B-cell responses following ChAd63-MVA MSP1 and AMA1 immunization and controlled malaria infection.
AB  - Acquisition of non-sterilizing natural immunity to Plasmodium falciparum malaria has been shown in low transmission areas following multiple exposures. However, conflicting data from endemic areas suggest that the parasite may interfere with the induction of effective B-cell responses. To date, the impact of blood-stage parasite exposure on antigen-specific B cells has not been reported following controlled human malaria infection (CHMI). Here we analysed human B-cell responses in a series of Phase I/IIa clinical trials, which include CHMI, using candidate virus-vectored vaccines encoding two blood-stage antigens: merozoite surface protein 1 (MSP1) and apical membrane antigen 1 (AMA1). Previously vaccinated volunteers show boosting of pre-existing antigen-specific memory B-cell (mBC) responses following CHMI. In contrast, unvaccinated malaria-naive control volunteers developed an mBC response against MSP1 but not AMA1. Serum IgG correlated with the mBC response after booster vaccination but this relationship was less well maintained following CHMI. A significant reduction in peripheral MSP1-specific mBC was observed at the point of diagnosis of blood-stage infection. This was coincident with a reduction in peripheral blood B-cell subsets expressing CXCR3 and elevated serum levels of interferon- and CXCL9, suggesting migration away from the periphery. These CHMI data confirm that mBC and antibody responses can be induced and boosted by blood-stage parasite exposure, in support of epidemiological studies on low-level parasite exposure.

UI  - 24296325
TI  - Feasibility, safety and effectiveness of combining home based malaria management and seasonal malaria chemoprevention in children less than 10 years in Senegal: a cluster-randomised trial.
AB  - (www.pactr.org) PACTR201305000551876.

UI  - 24291193
TI  - Impact of malaria and helminth infections on immunogenicity of the human papillomavirus-16/18 AS04-adjuvanted vaccine in Tanzania.
AB  - The data show high HPV immunogenicity regardless of the presence of malaria and helminth infections. The mechanism and significance for the increase in GMT in those with malaria is unknown.

UI  - 24287745
TI  - Health status of children in institutionalised homes in South West Nigeria.
AB  - The health status of children in institutionalised care is poor and needs better supervision and support to facilitate growth and wellbeing.

UI  - 24278025
TI  - Killer bee molecules: antimicrobial peptides as effector molecules to target sporogonic stages of Plasmodium.
AB  - A new generation of strategies is evolving that aim to block malaria transmission by employing genetically modified vectors or mosquito pathogens or symbionts that express anti-parasite molecules. Whilst transgenic technologies have advanced rapidly, there is still a paucity of effector molecules with potent anti-malaria activity whose expression does not cause detrimental effects on mosquito fitness. Our objective was to examine a wide range of antimicrobial peptides (AMPs) for their toxic effects on Plasmodium and anopheline mosquitoes. Specifically targeting early sporogonic stages, we initially screened AMPs for toxicity against a mosquito cell line and P. berghei ookinetes. Promising candidate AMPs were fed to mosquitoes to monitor adverse fitness effects, and their efficacy in blocking rodent malaria infection in Anopheles stephensi was assessed. This was followed by tests to determine their activity against P. falciparum in An. gambiae, initially using laboratory cultures to infect mosquitoes, then culminating in preliminary assays in the field using gametocytes and mosquitoes collected from the same area in Mali, West Africa. From a range of 33 molecules, six AMPs able to block Plasmodium development were identified: Anoplin, Duramycin, Mastoparan X, Melittin, TP10 and Vida3. With the exception of Anoplin and Mastoparan X, these AMPs were also toxic to an An. gambiae cell line at a concentration of 25 M. However, when tested in mosquito blood feeds, they did not reduce mosquito longevity or egg production at concentrations of 50 M. Peptides effective against cultured ookinetes were less effective when tested in vivo and differences in efficacy against P. berghei and P. falciparum were seen. From the range of molecules tested, the majority of effective AMPs were derived from bee/wasp venoms.

UI  - 24260195
TI  - Extended safety, immunogenicity and efficacy of a blood-stage malaria vaccine in malian children: 24-month follow-up of a randomized, double-blinded phase 2 trial.
AB  - Clinicaltrials.gov NCT00460525 NCT00460525.

UI  - 24244339
TI  - A phase 1b randomized, controlled, double-blinded dosage-escalation trial to evaluate the safety, reactogenicity and immunogenicity of an adenovirus type 35 based circumsporozoite malaria vaccine in Burkinabe healthy adults 18 to 45 years of age.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT01018459 http://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT01018459.

UI  - 24239324
TI  - Single dose primaquine for clearance of Plasmodium falciparum gametocytes in children with uncomplicated malaria in Uganda: a randomised, controlled, double-blind, dose-ranging trial.
AB  - Wellcome Trust and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.

UI  - 24220287
TI  - Cotrimoxazole prophylaxis versus mefloquine intermittent preventive treatment to prevent malaria in HIV-infected pregnant women: two randomized controlled trials.
AB  - CTX alone provided adequate protection against malaria in HIV-infected pregnant women, although MQ-IPTp showed higher efficacy against placental infection. Although more frequently associated with dizziness and vomiting, MQ-IPTp may be an effective alternative given concerns about parasite resistance to CTX.

UI  - 24215565
TI  - Artemisinin-naphthoquine combination versus chloroquine-primaquine to treat vivax malaria: an open-label randomized and non-inferiority trial in Yunnan Province, China.
AB  - ANQ is non-inferior to CQ-PQ in terms of patients free of recurrence, and safer than CQ-PQ.

UI  - 24200190
TI  - Atovaquone-proguanil in the treatment of imported uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria: a prospective observational study of 553 cases.
AB  - This study seems to be the largest in terms of number of imported uncomplicated malaria cases treated by AP. The high rate of reported digestive ADR is striking and should be taken into account in the follow-up of patients since it could affect their adherence to the treatment. Beside AP, artemisinin combination therapy (ACT) is now recommended as first-line regimen. A comparison of AP and ACT, in terms of efficacy and tolerance, would be useful.

UI  - 24122669
TI  - [Efficacy and safety of antimalarial combinations for treatment of uncomplicated malaria in children in Bangui, Central African Republic].
AB  - This study demonstrates that artemisinin-based combinations are still effective and tolerated in the treatment of uncomplicated malaria in children younger than 5 years in Bangui. Treatment failures were due to new infections and mutations in resistance markers.

UI  - 24119994
TI  - Entomological determinants of insecticide-treated bed net effectiveness in Western Myanmar.
AB  - Peak vector biting occurred early in the evening and mainly occurred outdoors. The limited efficacy of ITN in this area of Western Myanmar may be explained by the biting behaviour of the prevalent Anopheles mosquito vectors in this area.

UI  - 24119916
TI  - The effect of insecticide-treated bed nets on the incidence and prevalence of malaria in children in an area of unstable seasonal transmission in western Myanmar.
AB  - In Western Myanmar deployment of ITNs did not provide consistent protection against malaria in children living in malaria endemic villages. Early diagnosis and effective treatment is a more cost effective malaria control strategy than deployment of ITNs in this area where the main vector bites early in the evening, often before people are protected by an ITN.

UI  - 24116122
TI  - Improving health worker adherence to malaria treatment guidelines in Papua New Guinea: feasibility and acceptability of a text message reminder service.
AB  - The aim of this study is to assess whether a text message reminder service designed to support health worker adherence to a revised malaria treatment protocol is feasible and acceptable in Papua New Guinea (PNG). The study took place in six purposively selected health facilities located in the Eastern Highlands Province (EHP) of PNG. Ten text messages designed to remind participants of key elements of the new NMTP were transmitted to 42 health workers twice over a two week period (two text messages per day, Monday to Friday) via the country's largest mobile network provider. The feasibility and acceptability of the text message reminder service was assessed by transmission reports, participant diaries and group discussions. Findings indicate that the vast majority of text messages were successfully transmitted, participants' had regular mobile phone access and that most text messages were read most of the time and were considered both acceptable and clinically useful. Nevertheless, the study found that PNG health workers may tire of the service if the same messages are repeated too many times and that health workers may be reluctant to utilize more comprehensive, yet complementary, resources. In conclusion, a text message reminder service to support health worker adherence to the new malaria treatment protocol is feasible and acceptable in PNG. A rigorous pragmatic, effectiveness trial would be justified on the basis of these findings.

UI  - 24107150
TI  - Towards improved uptake of malaria chemoprophylaxis among West African travellers: identification of behavioural determinants.
AB  - Almost half of the VFRs travelling to West Africa had not started chemoprophylaxis; therefore, there is room for improvement. Risk reduction strategies could aim at improving attendance to travel clinics and focus on young-, business and long term travellers and VFRs who have experienced malaria during consultation. Risk reduction strategies should focus on improving self-efficacy and conceptions of response efficacy, including social environment to aim at creating the positive social context needed.

UI  - 24098699
TI  - Performance of rapid diagnostic tests for imported malaria in clinical practice: results of a national multicenter study.
AB  - We compared the performance of four rapid diagnostic tests (RDTs) for imported malaria, and particularly Plasmodium falciparum infection, using thick and thin blood smears as the gold standard. All the tests are designed to detect at least one protein specific to P. falciparum (Plasmodium histidine-rich protein 2 (PfHRP2) or Plasmodium LDH (PfLDH)) and one pan-Plasmodium protein (aldolase or Plasmodium LDH (pLDH)). 1,311 consecutive patients presenting to 9 French hospitals with suspected malaria were included in this prospective study between April 2006 and September 2008. Blood smears revealed malaria parasites in 374 cases (29%). For the diagnosis of P. falciparum infection, the three tests detecting PfHRP2 showed high and similar sensitivity (96%), positive predictive value (PPV) (90%) and negative predictive value (NPV) (98%). The PfLDH test showed lower sensitivity (83%) and NPV (80%), despite good PPV (98%). For the diagnosis of non-falciparum species, the PPV and NPV of tests targeting pLDH or aldolase were 94-99% and 52-64%, respectively. PfHRP2-based RDTs are thus an acceptable alternative to routine microscopy for diagnosing P. falciparum malaria. However, as malaria may be misdiagnosed with RDTs, all negative results must be confirmed by the reference diagnostic method when clinical, biological or other factors are highly suggestive of malaria.

UI  - 24088113
TI  - Primaquine failure and cytochrome P-450 2D6 in Plasmodium vivax malaria.
AB  - 

UI  - 24079295
TI  - The PRIME trial protocol: evaluating the impact of an intervention implemented in public health centres on management of malaria and health outcomes of children using a cluster-randomised design in Tororo, Uganda.
AB  - This trial is registered at Clinicaltrials.gov (NCT01024426) and is supported by the ACT Consortium.

UI  - 24079262
TI  - The reliability of the physical examination to guide fluid therapy in adults with severe falciparum malaria: an observational study.
AB  - Clinicaltrials.gov identifier: NCT00692627.

UI  - 24053172
TI  - Integrated community case management of malaria and pneumonia increases prompt and appropriate treatment for pneumonia symptoms in children under five years in Eastern Uganda.
AB  - ISRCTN52966230.

UI  - 24041296
TI  - A study on relapse/re-infection rate of Plasmodium vivax malaria and identification of the predominant genotypes of P. vivax in two endemic districts of Nepal.
AB  - The relapse/re-infection rate of 17% was determined for P. vivax in Kailali and Kanchanpur districts of Nepal. A heterogeneous Pvcsp genotypic distribution of P. vivax was detected with VK210 being a predominant type, suggesting a complex transmission dynamics of the parasite. Expanding such study in other endemic regions of Nepal would help provide a complete picture on relapse/re-infection rate and parasite genotypic variability that can help in effective control and management of malaria in Nepal.

UI  - 24030274
TI  - Impact of treating young children with antimalarials with or without antibiotics on morbidity: a cluster-randomized controlled trial in Ghana.
AB  - Treating fever with antimalarials significantly reduced the prevalence of anaemia, severe anaemia and severe illness. We found no significant reduction in outcomes when the AAQ and AAQ+AMX clusters were compared.

UI  - 24029408
TI  - First-in-human evaluation of genetically attenuated Plasmodium falciparum sporozoites administered by bite of Anopheles mosquitoes to adult volunteers.
AB  - Severe attenuation and favorable immune responses following administration of a first generation Pf p52(-)/p36(-) GAP suggests that further development of live-attenuated strains using genetic engineering should be pursued.

UI  - 24009511
TI  - CD36 recruits  integrin to promote cytoadherence of P. falciparum-infected erythrocytes.
AB  - The adhesion of Plasmodium falciparum-infected erythrocytes (IRBC) to receptors on different host cells plays a divergent yet critical role in determining the progression and outcome of the infection. Based on our ex vivo studies with clinical parasite isolates from adult Thai patients, we have previously proposed a paradigm for IRBC cytoadherence under physiological shear stress that consists of a recruitment cascade mediated largely by P-selectin, ICAM-1 and CD36 on primary human dermal microvascular endothelium (HDMEC). In addition, we detected post-adhesion signaling events involving Src family kinases and the adaptor protein p130CAS in endothelial cells that lead to CD36 clustering and cytoskeletal rearrangement which enhance the magnitude of the adhesive strength, allowing adherent IRBC to withstand shear stress of up to 20 dynes/cm. In this study, we addressed whether CD36 supports IRBC adhesion as part of an assembly of membrane receptors. Using a combination of flow chamber assay, atomic force and confocal microscopy, we showed for the first time by loss- and gain-of function assays that in the resting state, the integrin  does not support adhesive interactions between IRBC and HDMEC. Upon IRBC adhesion to CD36, the integrin is recruited either passively as part of a molecular complex with CD36, or actively to the site of IRBC attachment through phosphorylation of Src family kinases, a process that is Ca-dependent. Clustering of 1 integrin is associated with an increase in IRBC recruitment as well as in adhesive strength after attachment (40% in both cases). The adhesion of IRBC to a multimolecular complex on the surface of endothelial cells could be of critical importance in enabling adherent IRBC to withstand the high shear stress in the microcirculations. Targeting integrins may provide a novel approach to decrease IRBC cytoadherence to microvascular endothelium.

UI  - 24002280
TI  - Effect of iron fortification on malaria incidence in infants and young children in Ghana: a randomized trial.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT01001871.

UI  - 23978002
TI  - Effect of malaria transmission reduction by insecticide-treated bed nets (ITNs) on the genetic diversity of Plasmodium falciparum merozoite surface protein (MSP-1) and circumsporozoite (CSP) in western Kenya.
AB  - High diversity in these two genes has been maintained overtime despite marked reductions in malaria transmission due to ITNs use. The frequency of 3D7 sequence-types was very low in this area. These findings provide information that could be useful in the design of future malaria vaccines for deployment in endemic areas with high ITN coverage and in interpretation of efficacy data for malaria vaccines based on 3D7 parasite strains.

UI  - 23967083
TI  - Can topical insect repellents reduce malaria? A cluster-randomised controlled trial of the insect repellent N,N-diethyl-m-toluamide (DEET) in Lao PDR.
AB  - This trial is registered with number NCT00938379.

UI  - 23956164
TI  - Iron supplementation in HIV-infected Malawian children with anemia: a double-blind, randomized, controlled trial.
AB  - ISRCTN-62947977.

UI  - 23945376
TI  - Residual Plasmodium falciparum parasitemia in Kenyan children after artemisinin-combination therapy is associated with increased transmission to mosquitoes and parasite recurrence.
AB  - Residual submicroscopic parasitemia is common after ACT and is associated with a higher transmission potential. Residual parasitemia may also have consequences for individual patients because of its higher risk of recurrent parasitemia.

UI  - 23945130
TI  - Effectiveness of two antifolate prophylactic strategies against malaria in HIV-positive pregnant women in Bangui, Central African Republic: study protocol for a randomized controlled trial (MACOMBA).
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT01746199.

UI  - 23943850
TI  - Randomized controlled trial of levamisole hydrochloride as adjunctive therapy in severe falciparum malaria with high parasitemia.
AB  - There was no benefit of a single-dose of levamisole hydrochloride as adjuvant to intravenous artesunate in the treatment of adults with severe falciparum malaria. Rapid parasite killing by intravenous artesunate might obscure the effects of levamisole.

UI  - 23929949
TI  - Protection against malaria by intravenous immunization with a nonreplicating sporozoite vaccine.
AB  - Consistent, high-level, vaccine-induced protection against human malaria has only been achieved by inoculation of Plasmodium falciparum (Pf) sporozoites (SPZ) by mosquito bites. We report that the PfSPZ Vaccine--composed of attenuated, aseptic, purified, cryopreserved PfSPZ--was safe and well tolerated when administered four to six times intravenously (IV) to 40 adults. Zero of six subjects receiving five doses and three of nine subjects receiving four doses of 1.35  10(5) PfSPZ Vaccine and five of six nonvaccinated controls developed malaria after controlled human malaria infection (P = 0.015 in the five-dose group and P = 0.028 for overall, both versus controls). PfSPZ-specific antibody and T cell responses were dose-dependent. These data indicate that there is a dose-dependent immunological threshold for establishing high-level protection against malaria that can be achieved with IV administration of a vaccine that is safe and meets regulatory standards.

UI  - 23926329
TI  - A randomized comparison of dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine and artesunate-amodiaquine combined with primaquine for radical treatment of vivax malaria in Sumatera, Indonesia.
AB  - NCT01288820.

UI  - 23922746
TI  - A randomized pilot study of L-arginine infusion in severe falciparum malaria: preliminary safety, efficacy and pharmacokinetics.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00616304.

UI  - 23899517
TI  - Human adenovirus 5-vectored Plasmodium falciparum NMRC-M3V-Ad-PfCA vaccine encoding CSP and AMA1 is safe, well-tolerated and immunogenic but does not protect against controlled human malaria infection.
AB  - In contrast to DNA/Ad, Ad alone did not protect against CHMI despite inducing broad, cell-mediated immunity, indicating that DNA priming is required for protection by the adenovirus-vectored vaccine. ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT00392015.

UI  - 23874828
TI  - Successful human infection with P. falciparum using three aseptic Anopheles stephensi mosquitoes: a new model for controlled human malaria infection.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00744133 NCT00744133.

UI  - 23870627
TI  - A randomized trial of artemether-lumefantrine and dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine in the treatment of uncomplicated malaria among children in western Kenya.
AB  - AL and DP remain efficacious for the treatment of uncomplicated malaria among children in western Kenya. The longer half-life of piperaquine relative to lumefantrine may provide a prophylactic effect, accounting for the lower rate of re-infection in the first 28 days after treatment in the DP arm.

UI  - 23870554
TI  - Sample size calculation for multicentre efficacy trials of blood-stage malaria antigens.
AB  - The approach demonstrated the potential of estimating the expected number of events required to give a specified power for multicentre efficacy trails of blood stage malaria antigens.

UI  - 23866774
TI  - Efficacy of artesunate-amodiaquine and artemether-lumefantrine fixed-dose combinations for the treatment of uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria among children aged six to 59 months in Nimba County, Liberia: an open-label randomized non-inferiority trial.
AB  - The protocols were registered with Current Controlled Trials, under the identifier numbers ISRCTN51688713, ISRCTN40020296.

UI  - 23827788
TI  - An artesunate-containing antimalarial treatment regimen did not suppress cytomegalovirus viremia.
AB  - A standard 3-day artesunate-containing antimalarial regimen had no detectable effect on CMV viremia in children with malaria. Longer treatment courses and/or higher doses of artesunate than those routinely used for malaria may be required for effective treatment of CMV infection.

UI  - 23825944
TI  - DC8 and DC13 var genes associated with severe malaria bind avidly to diverse endothelial cells.
AB  - During blood stage infection, Plasmodium falciparum infected erythrocytes (IE) bind to host blood vessels. This virulence determinant enables parasites to evade spleen-dependent killing mechanisms, but paradoxically in some cases may reduce parasite fitness by killing the host. Adhesion of infected erythrocytes is mediated by P. falciparum erythrocyte membrane protein 1 (PfEMP1), a family of polymorphic adhesion proteins encoded by var genes. Whereas cerebral binding and severe malaria are associated with parasites expressing DC8 and DC13 var genes, relatively little is known about the non-brain endothelial selection on severe malaria adhesive types. In this study, we selected P. falciparum-IEs on diverse endothelial cell types and demonstrate that DC8 and DC13 var genes were consistently among the major var transcripts selected on non-brain endothelial cells (lung, heart, bone marrow). To investigate the molecular basis for this avid endothelial binding activity, recombinant proteins were expressed from the predominant upregulated DC8 transcript, IT4var19. In-depth binding comparisons revealed that multiple extracellular domains from this protein bound brain and non-brain endothelial cells, and individual domains largely did not discriminate between different endothelial cell types. Additionally, we found that recombinant DC8 and DC13 CIDR1 domains exhibited a widespread endothelial binding activity and could compete for DC8-IE binding to brain endothelial cells, suggesting they may bind the same host receptor. Our findings provide new insights into the interaction of severe malaria adhesive types and host blood vessels and support the hypothesis that parasites causing severe malaria express PfEMP1 variants with a superior ability to adhere to diverse endothelial cell types, and may therefore endow these parasites with a growth and transmission advantage.

UI  - 23787519
TI  - Efficacy of Quinine versus Artemether in the treatment of severe malaria.
AB  - In severe paediatric malaria intravenous Quinine or intramuscular Artemether therapy does not have any statistically significant difference in terms of fever clearance but Quinine has statistically significant shorter duration of coma resolution than with Artemether therapy after 24 hours of treatment.

UI  - 23768828
TI  - Passive gravitational sedimentation of peripheral blood increases the sensitivity of microscopic detection of malaria.
AB  - Passive gravitational sedimentation of red blood cells followed by buffy coat analysis dramatically improves the sensitivity of malaria diagnosis without the additional costs associated with centrifugation.

UI  - 23725789
TI  - Developmental effects of micronutrient supplementation and malaria in Zanzibari children.
AB  - These findings illustrate how nutrition and health factors can affect different domains of development and how these changes can precipitate changes in other domains. More work is needed to better understand the multiple impacts of internal and external factors on children's development and how changes in developmental domains interact with each other over time to determine children's overall developmental trajectory. The randomized, placebo-controlled study was registered as an International Standard Randomized Controlled Trial, number ISRCTN59549825.

UI  - 23724021
TI  - Phase 1b randomized trial and follow-up study in Uganda of the blood-stage malaria vaccine candidate BK-SE36.
AB  - Controlled-Trials.com ISRCTN71619711.

UI  - 23718705
TI  - Triangular test design to evaluate tinidazole in the prevention of Plasmodium vivax relapse.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00811096.

UI  - 23717719
TI  - [Intermittent preventive treatment with sulfadoxine--pyrimethamine for malaria in pregnant women: efficacy and compliance in two urban hospitals in Burkina Faso].
AB  - 

UI  - 23717423
TI  - In vivo efficacy of artemether-lumefantrine and chloroquine against Plasmodium vivax: a randomized open label trial in central Ethiopia.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT01052584.

UI  - 23715231
TI  - [Characterization of Plasmodium vivax malaria transmission at the border of Panam and Costa Rica].
AB  - These observations indicate the advisibility of continued entomological studies, strengthening of epidemiological surveillance, consideration of additional risk factors and evaluation of work performance in the border region. This will require coordination with health authorities of both countries to control malaria in this region.

UI  - 23715228
TI  - [Therapeutic response of Plasmodium vivax to chloroquine in Bolivia].
AB  - Resistance of Plasmodium vivax to chloroquine was not demonstrated in three regions of Bolivia.

UI  - 23711703
TI  - Therapeutic efficacy of artemisinin combination therapies and prevalence of S769N mutation in PfATPase6 gene of Plasmodium falciparum in Kolkata, India.
AB  - The used, combination AS+SP is effective and the other combination AM+LF might be an alternative, if needed.

UI  - 23680181
TI  - Challenges for consent and community engagement in the conduct of cluster randomized trial among school children in low income settings: experiences from Kenya.
AB  - National Institute of Health NCT00878007.

UI  - 23669232
TI  - Blood stage of Plasmodium vivax in central China is still susceptible to chloroquine plus primaquine combination therapy.
AB  - In central China, Plasmodium vivax accounts for all of the native reported cases of malaria. Chloroquine (CQ) plus primaquine (PQ) have been used for more than 60 years as the frontline drugs, but the risk of treatment failure remains unknown. To measure the effectiveness and safety of CQ-PQ among vivax malaria patients, a total of 39 subjects with monoinfection vivax malaria was enrolled in a study from 2008 to 2009. There were no recrudescence or danger signs observed within the 28-day follow-up period, showing that blood stage of P. vivax isolates from central China is still susceptible to CQ plus PQ combination therapy. However, the antirelapse efficacy of PQ is difficult to assess because of the high rate of loss to follow-up after 28 days; also, parasites persisted in a single case at 3 days post-antimalarial drug treatment, indicating that continuous annual monitoring is needed in central China.

UI  - 23667337
TI  - Measuring coverage in MNCH: accuracy of measuring diagnosis and treatment of childhood malaria from household surveys in Zambia.
AB  - Based on these findings, results from household surveys should continue to be used for ascertaining the coverage of children with a fever in the past 2 wk that received an ACT. However, as recall of a malaria diagnosis remains suboptimal, its use in defining malaria treatment coverage is not recommended.

UI  - 23659539
TI  - Provision of bednets and water filters to delay HIV-1 progression: cost-effectiveness analysis of a Kenyan multisite study.
AB  - The provision of LLINs and water filters to ART-nave HIV-infected adults in the Kenyan study resulted in substantial net cost savings, due to the delay in the initiation of ART. The addition of an LLIN and a point-of-use water filter to the existing package of care provided to ART-nave HIV-infected adults could bring substantial cost savings to resource-constrained health systems in low- and middle-income countries.

UI  - 23656836
TI  - An innovative pay-for-performance (P4P) strategy for improving malaria management in rural Kenya: protocol for a cluster randomized controlled trial.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov Registration Number NCT01809873.

UI  - 23624363
TI  - The malaria vaccine candidate GMZ2 elicits functional antibodies in individuals from malaria endemic and non-endemic areas.
AB  - These findings suggest that GMZ2 adjuvanted in Al(OH)3 elicits high levels of specific and functional antibodies with the capacity to control parasite multiplication.

UI  - 23601522
TI  - [Evaluating the effect of preventive medicine for residents living around mosquito breeding water during rest period of malaria].
AB  - The delimiting preventive medicine treatment during rest period of malaria was very effective for eliminating the potential infection source of malaria and reducing the morbidity of malaria.

UI  - 23587943
TI  - Nonrandomized controlled trial of artesunate plus sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine with or without primaquine for preventing posttreatment circulation of Plasmodium falciparum gametocytes.
AB  - Artemisinin combination therapies eliminate immature Plasmodium falciparum gametocytes but not mature gametocytes, which may persist for up to 1 month posttreatment. A single dose of primaquine, which is inexpensive and effective against mature gametocytes, could be added to further reduce the potential for posttreatment parasite transmission. Currently, we have few data regarding the effectiveness or safety of doing so. We collected data from 21 therapeutic efficacy trials of the National Antimalarial Drug Resistance Monitoring System of India conducted during 2009 to 2010, wherein 9 sites used single-dose primaquine (0.75 mg/kg of body weight) administered on day 2 along with artesunate plus sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine (AS+SP) while 12 did not. We estimated the effect of primaquine on posttreatment gametocyte clearance and the total number of gametocyte-weeks as determined by microscopy. We compared the median area under the curve for gametocyte density and reported adverse events. One thousand three hundred thirty-five patients completed the antimalarial drug treatment. Adjusting for region, primaquine increased the rate of gametocyte clearance (hazard ratio, 1.9; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.1 to 3.3), prevented 45% (95% CI, 19 to 62) of posttreatment gametocyte-weeks, and decreased the area under the gametocyte density curve over the 28-day follow-up compared to AS+SP alone (P value = 0.01). The results were robust to other adjustment sets, and the estimated effect of primaquine increased during sensitivity analysis on the measurement of exposure time. No serious adverse events were detected. In conclusion, the addition of primaquine to AS+SP was effective in reducing the posttreatment presence of P. falciparum gametocytes. Primaquine was well tolerated and could be administered along with an artemisinin combination therapy as the first-line therapy.

UI  - 23561033
TI  - Malaria attacks due to P.vivax or P.ovale in two French military teaching hospitals (2000 to 2009).
AB  - Patient management could be optimized by more efficient diagnostic tools, specific guidelines for the diagnostic and therapeutic management, and a dedicated medical training for family practitioners as well as hospitals practice.

UI  - 23555980
TI  - High adherence to antimalarials and antibiotics under integrated community case management of illness in children less than five years in eastern Uganda.
AB  - Addition of antibiotics to antimalarials did not lower adherence. However, caregivers should be adequately counseled to understand the dosing regimens; continue with medicines even when the child seems to improve; and re-administer doses that have been vomited.

UI  - 23555035
TI  - Predictive factors of plasma HIV suppression during pregnancy: a prospective cohort study in Benin.
AB  - This study provides more evidence that ART has to be initiated before the last trimester of pregnancy to achieve an undetectable pVL before delivery. In Benin, new recommendations supporting early initiation were well implemented and, together with a high antenatal care attendance, led to high rate of virologic control.

UI  - 23554856
TI  - Comparison of PfHRP-2/pLDH ELISA, qPCR and microscopy for the detection of plasmodium events and prediction of sick visits during a malaria vaccine study.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00666380.

UI  - 23530078
TI  - Artesunate/amodiaquine malaria treatment for Equatorial Guinea (Central Africa).
AB  - The objectives of this study were: 1) to evaluate the safety and efficacy of combination artesunate (AS)/amodiaquine (AQ) therapy, and 2) to determine the difference between recrudescence and resistance. An in vivo efficacy study was conducted in Equatorial Guinea. A total of 122 children 6-59 months of age from two regional hospitals were randomized and subjected to a 28-day clinical and parasitological follow-up. A blood sample on Whatman paper was taken on Days 0, 7, 14, 21, and 28 or on any day in cases of treatment failure, with the parasite DNA then being extracted for molecular analysis purposes. A total of 4 children were excluded, and 9 cases were lost to follow-up. There were 17 cases of late parasitological failure, 3 cases of late clinical failure, and 89 cases of adequate clinical and parasitological response. The parasitological failure rate was 18.3% (20 of 109) and the success rate 81.70% (95% confidence interval [72.5-87.9%]). After molecular correction, real treatment efficacy stood at 97.3%. Our study showed the good efficacy of combination AS/AQ therapy. This finding enabled this treatment to be recommended to Equatorial Guinea's National Malaria Control Program to change the official treatment policy as of March 2008.

UI  - 23526959
TI  - The effect of three-monthly albendazole treatment on malarial parasitemia and allergy: a household-based cluster-randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - Controlled-Trials.com ISRCTN83830814.

UI  - 23526949
TI  - Safety and immunogenicity of heterologous prime-boost immunisation with Plasmodium falciparum malaria candidate vaccines, ChAd63 ME-TRAP and MVA ME-TRAP, in healthy Gambian and Kenyan adults.
AB  - Pactr.org PACTR2010020001771828 Pactr.org PACTR201008000221638 ClinicalTrials.gov NCT01373879 NCT01373879 ClinicalTrials.gov NCT01379430 NCT01379430.

UI  - 23520478
TI  - Reduced susceptibility of Plasmodium falciparum to artesunate in southern Myanmar.
AB  - Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry ACTRN12610000896077.

UI  - 23514288
TI  - Four-year efficacy of RTS,S/AS01E and its interaction with malaria exposure.
AB  - The efficacy of RTS,S/AS01E vaccine over the 4-year period was 16.8%. Efficacy declined over time and with increasing malaria exposure. (Funded by the PATH Malaria Vaccine Initiative and Wellcome Trust; ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00872963.).

UI  - 23507372
TI  - Maternal HIV infection and other factors associated with growth outcomes of HIV-uninfected infants in Entebbe, Uganda.
AB  - Maternal HIV infection was associated with being underweight in HIV-exposed uninfected infants. The success of programmes for prevention of mother-to-child HIV transmission means that an increasing number of infants will be born to HIV-infected women without acquiring HIV. Therefore, viable nutritional interventions need to be identified for this population.

UI  - 23506170
TI  - Health impact and cost-effectiveness of a private sector bed net distribution: experimental evidence from Zambia.
AB  - The results illustrate that existing private sector networks can efficiently control malaria in remote rural regions. The intra-household allocation of ITNs distributed through this channel was comparable to that of ITNs received from other sources, and the health impact remained substantial.

UI  - 23504392
TI  - [Risk factors for intra-uterine growth retardation in Lubumbashi].
AB  - 

UI  - 23489465
TI  - Comparative evaluation of efficacy and safety of artesunate-lumefantrine vs. artemether-lumefantrine fixed-dose combination in the treatment of uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria.
AB  - Artesunate (100mg)/lumefantrine (480mg) fixed-dose combination could add one more option to currently available artemisinin combinations in treatment of uncomplicated P.falciparum malaria.

UI  - 23468056
TI  - Malaria transmission after artemether-lumefantrine and dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine: a randomized trial.
AB  - NCT00868465.

UI  - 23457473
TI  - DNA prime/Adenovirus boost malaria vaccine encoding P. falciparum CSP and AMA1 induces sterile protection associated with cell-mediated immunity.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.govNCT00870987.

UI  - 23454164
TI  - Efficacy of RTS,S malaria vaccines: individual-participant pooled analysis of phase 2 data.
AB  - Medical Research Council (UK); Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation Vaccine Modelling Initiative; Wellcome Trust.

UI  - 23452547
TI  - The effect of an anti-malarial subsidy programme on the quality of service provision of artemisinin-based combination therapy in Kenya: a cluster-randomized, controlled trial.
AB  - Overall, subsidizing ACT and retailer training can significantly increase the percentage of outlets stocking and selling AL for the presumptive treatment of malaria, but further research is needed on strategies to improve the provision of counselling advice to retail customers.

UI  - 23447696
TI  - Pharmacokinetic predictors for recurrent malaria after dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine treatment of uncomplicated malaria in Ugandan infants.
AB  - These piperaquine PK/PD data represent the first in children <2 years of age. Piperaquine exposure on day 7 correlated with an increased risk of recurrent malaria after DP treatment in children receiving TMP-SMX prophylaxis. Interestingly, despite strong associations, infants remained at risk for malaria, even if they had residual levels of piperaquine.

UI  - 23442748
TI  - A controlled, parallel, cluster-randomized trial of community-wide screening and treatment of asymptomatic carriers of Plasmodium falciparum in Burkina Faso.
AB  - Systematic screening and treatment of asymptomatic carriers at the community level did not reduce clinical malaria incidence in the subsequent transmission season, indicating greater levels of parasite clearance are required to achieve a sustained impact in this setting.

UI  - 23441978
TI  - Pharmacokinetic interaction between etravirine or darunavir/ritonavir and artemether/lumefantrine in healthy volunteers: a two-panel, two-way, two-period, randomized trial.
AB  - Co-administration of etravirine with artemether/lumefantrine may lower the antimalarial activity of artemether and should therefore be used with caution. Darunavir/ritonavir can be co-administered with artemether/lumefantrine without dose adjustment but should be used with caution.

UI  - 23434608
TI  - Ethnobotanical survey of malaria prophylactic remedies in Odisha, India.
AB  - Findings of this study provide a lead to explore traditional plants for malaria preventive potential through further pre-clinical and clinical studies.

UI  - 23432801
TI  - The effect of antenatal monthly sulphadoxine-pyrimethamine, alone or with azithromycin, on foetal and neonatal growth faltering in Malawi: a randomised controlled trial.
AB  - An IPTp regimen with monthly SP given to all pregnant women is likely to increase mean birthweight and length at four weeks of age in malaria holoendemic areas. Adding azithromycin to the regimen appears to offer further benefits in reducing foetal and neonatal growth faltering.

UI  - 23403171
TI  - Effectiveness of artemether/lumefantrine for the treatment of uncomplicated Plasmodium vivax and P. falciparum malaria in young children in Papua New Guinea.
AB  - AL provides a rapid clinical response against both Pf and Pv malaria, but is associated with a high rate of Pv recurrent clinical episodes between days 28 and 42. In order to prevent relapsing infections from long-lasting hypnozoites, AL should ideally be complemented with a course of primaquine. In the absence of better treatment and diagnostic options, the use of AL in young children in routine practice is an acceptable, interim option in coendemic areas where Pv is resistant to chloroquine and specific treatment for Pv hypnozoites not feasible.

UI  - 23398516
TI  - Parasite maturation and host serum iron influence the labile iron pool of erythrocyte stage Plasmodium falciparum.
AB  - Iron is a critical and tightly regulated nutrient for both the malaria parasite and its human host. The importance of the relationship between host iron and the parasite has been underscored recently by studies showing that host iron supplementation may increase the risk of falciparum malaria. It is unclear what host iron sources the parasite is able to access. We developed a flow cytometry-based method for measuring the labile iron pool (LIP) of parasitized erythrocytes using the nucleic acid dye STYO 61 and the iron sensitive dye, calcein acetoxymethyl ester (CA-AM). This new approach enabled us to measure the LIP of P.falciparum through the course of its erythrocytic life cycle and in response to the addition of host serum iron sources. We found that the LIP increases as the malaria parasite develops from early ring to late schizont stage, and that the addition of either transferrin or ferric citrate to culture media increases the LIP of trophozoites. Our method for detecting the LIP within malaria parasitized RBCs provides evidence that the parasite is able to access serum iron sources as part of the host vs. parasite arms race for iron.

UI  - 23388470
TI  - The effect of blood storage age on treatment of lactic acidosis by transfusion in children with severe malarial anaemia: a pilot, randomized, controlled trial.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov NCT01580111.

UI  - 23384005
TI  - Artesunate-amodiaquine efficacy in Congolese children with acute uncomplicated falciparum malaria in Brazzaville.
AB  - This study has shown the high efficacy of AS+AQ in Congolese patients of all ages with acute uncomplicated falciparum malaria and serves as the baseline efficacy and tolerance of this ACT in Brazzaville.

UI  - 23382157
TI  - The effects of ACT treatment and TS prophylaxis on Plasmodium falciparum gametocytemia in a cohort of young Ugandan children.
AB  - Artemisinin-based combination therapies (ACTs) and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (TS) prophylaxis are important tools for malaria control, but there are concerns about their effect on gametocytes, the stage of the parasite responsible for transmission. We conducted a longitudinal clinical trial in a cohort of HIV-infected and uninfected children living in an area of high malaria transmission intensity in Uganda. Study participants were randomized to artemether-lumefantrine (AL) or dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine (DP) for all treatments of uncomplicated malaria (N = 4,380) as well as TS prophylaxis for different durations. The risks of gametocytemia detected by microscopy in the 28 days after antimalarial therapy were compared using multivariate analyses. The risk of gametocyte detection was significantly higher in patients treated with DP compared with AL (adjusted relative risk = 1.85, P < 0.001) and among children prescribed TS prophylaxis (adjusted relative risk = 1.76, P < 0.001). The risk of gametocytemia and its potential for increasing transmission should be considered when evaluating different ACTs and TS prophylaxis for malaria control.

UI  - 23374910
TI  - The impact of hotspot-targeted interventions on malaria transmission: study protocol for a cluster-randomized controlled trial.
AB  - NCT01575613. The protocol was registered online on 20 March 2012; the first community was randomized on 26 March 2012.

UI  - 23361337
TI  - The tympanic membrane displacement analyser for monitoring intracranial pressure in children.
AB  - The TMD analyser has a potential utility in monitoring ICP in a variety of clinical circumstances.

UI  - 23358640
TI  - Inter-relationships of cardinal features and outcomes of symptomatic pediatric Plasmodium falciparum MALARIA in 1,933 children in Kampala, Uganda.
AB  - Malaria remains a challenging diagnosis with variable clinical presentation and a wide spectrum of disease severity. Using a structured case report form, we prospectively assessed 1,933 children at Mulago Hospital in Kampala, Uganda with acute Plasmodium falciparum malaria. Children with uncomplicated malaria significantly differed from those with severe disease for 17 features. Among 855 children with severe disease, the case-fatality rate increased as the number of severity features increased. Logistic regression identified five factors independently associated with death: cerebral malaria, hypoxia, severe thrombocytopenia, leukocytosis, and lactic acidosis. Cluster analysis identified two groups: one combining anemia, splenomegaly, and leukocytosis; and a second group centered on death, severe thrombocytopenia, and lactic acidosis, which included cerebral malaria, hypoxia, hypoglycemia, and hyper-parasitemia. Our report updates previous clinical descriptions of severe malaria, quantifies significant clinical and laboratory inter-relationships, and will assist clinicians treating malaria and those planning or assessing future research (NCT00707200) (www.clinicaltrials.gov).

UI  - 23358639
TI  - Prevalence of asymptomatic parasitemia and gametocytemia among HIV-infected Ugandan children randomized to receive different antiretroviral therapies.
AB  - In a recent randomized controlled trial, the use of protease inhibitor (PI)-based antiretroviral therapy (ART) was associated with a significantly lower incidence of malaria compared with non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor-based ART in a cohort of human immunodeficiency virus-infected Ugandan children living in an area of high malaria transmission intensity. In this report, we compared the prevalence of asymptomatic parasitemia and gametocytemia using data from the same cohort. The prevalence of asymptomatic parasitemia did not differ between the two ART treatment arms. The PI-based arm was associated with a lower risk of gametocytemia at the time of diagnosis of malaria (6.6% versus 14.5%, P = 0.03) and during the 28 days after malaria diagnosis (3.4% versus 6.5%, P = 0.04). Thus, in addition to decreasing the incidence of malaria, the use of PI-based ART may lower transmission, as a result of a decrease in gametocytemia, in areas of high malaria transmission intensity.

UI  - 23351674
TI  - Impact of a mass media campaign on bed net use in Cameroon.
AB  - Extrapolating the results of the PSM model to the population of Cameroonians with access to at least one mosquito net, this analysis estimates that approximately 298,000 adults and over 221,000 of their children under five slept under a bed net because of the knowledge, motivation, and/or timely reminder provided by KO Palu NightWatch activities. The programme cost less than $0.16 per adult reached, and less than $1.62 per additional person protected by a net. The results suggest a strong role for mass media communication interventions in support of investments in malaria control commodities such as LLINs.

UI  - 23349786
TI  - Reducing stock-outs of life saving malaria commodities using mobile phone text-messaging: SMS for life study in Kenya.
AB  - Use of simple SMS technology ensured high reporting rates of reasonably accurate, real-time facility stock data that were used by district managers to undertake corrective actions to reduce stock-outs. Future work on stock monitoring via SMS should focus on assessing response rates without use of incentives and demonstrating effectiveness of such interventions on a larger scale.

UI  - 23349741
TI  - Efficacy of quinine, artemether-lumefantrine and dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine as rescue treatment for uncomplicated malaria in Ugandan children.
AB  - Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN99046537.

UI  - 23342996
TI  - Results from tandem Phase 1 studies evaluating the safety, reactogenicity and immunogenicity of the vaccine candidate antigen Plasmodium falciparum FVO merozoite surface protein-1 (MSP1(42)) administered intramuscularly with adjuvant system AS01.
AB  - Clinical Trials NCT00666380.

UI  - 23327825
TI  - Type of infectious disease affects glucose metabolism and liver glycogen content in Surinamese children: malaria vs. pneumonia.
AB  - This is the first study to show infectious disease-related differences in the adaptation of glucose metabolism to fasting in young children. It was found that basal glucose concentration and endogenous glucose production were higher in children with malaria. The increase in plasma glucose concentration and endogenous glucose production in response to glucagon was higher in children with malaria, indicating smaller glycogen stores in children with pneumonia.

UI  - 23324658
TI  - Evaluation of impact of long-lasting insecticide-treated bed nets and point-of-use water filters on HIV-1 disease progression in Kenya.
AB  - Provision of a long-lasting insecticide-treated bed net and water filter was associated with a delay in CD4 cell count decline and may be a simple, practical and cost-effective strategy to delay HIV-1 progression in many resource-limited settings.

UI  - 23324221
TI  - Impact of horizontal approach in vertical program: continuous quality improvement of malaria and tuberculosis diagnostic services at primary-level medical laboratories in the context of HIV care and treatment program in Ethiopia.
AB  - The use of standardized tools for continuous quality improvement of laboratory services is crucial to identify service gaps, plan targeted interventions, and prove successes. Laboratory quality improvement tools (LQITs) were developed and applied for 18 months at five health centers and one faith-based hospital laboratories in Southwest Showa Zone in Ethiopia to assess and monitor the quality of malaria and acid-fast bacilli (AFB) microscopy total testing processes. For the six laboratories, baseline malaria microscopy scores were 55%, 42%, 52%, 55%, 54%, and 61%. Similarly, baseline AFB microscopy scores were 49%, 41%, 46%, 58%, 44%, and 70%. On the sixth quarter for the first four laboratories and the fourth quarter for the last two laboratories, malaria microscopy scores were 89%, 88%, 88%, 90%, 88%, and 89%, whereas AFB microscopy scores were 90%, 88%, 89%, 95%, 88%, and 90%. All laboratories scored above 85% for both services at the end of interventions.

UI  - 23324216
TI  - Acute and potentially life-threatening tropical diseases in western travelers--a GeoSentinel multicenter study, 1996-2011.
AB  - We performed a descriptive analysis of acute and potentially life-threatening tropical diseases among 82,825 ill western travelers reported to GeoSentinel from June of 1996 to August of 2011. We identified 3,655 patients (4.4%) with a total of 3,666 diagnoses representing 13 diseases, including falciparum malaria (76.9%), enteric fever (18.1%), and leptospirosis (2.4%). Ninety-one percent of the patients had fever; the median time from travel to presentation was 16 days. Thirteen (0.4%) patients died: 10 with falciparum malaria, 2 with melioidosis, and 1 with severe dengue. Falciparum malaria was mainly acquired in West Africa, and enteric fever was largely contracted on the Indian subcontinent; leptospirosis, scrub typhus, and murine typhus were principally acquired in Southeast Asia. Western physicians seeing febrile and recently returned travelers from the tropics need to consider a wide profile of potentially life-threatening tropical illnesses, with a specific focus on the most likely diseases described in our large case series.

UI  - 23297680
TI  - Randomized, controlled trial of the long term safety, immunogenicity and efficacy of RTS,S/AS02(D) malaria vaccine in infants living in a malaria-endemic region.
AB  - Gov identifier: NCT00289185.

UI  - 23295878
TI  - Artesunate + amodiaquine versus artemether-lumefantrine for the treatment of uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in the Colombian Pacific region: a noninferiority trial.
AB  - Uncomplicated P. falciparum malaria treatment with artesunate + amodiaquine is noninferior to the artemether-lumefantrine standard treatment. The efficacy/safety profiles grant further studies in this and similar populations.

UI  - 23294670
TI  - Plasma cytokines, chemokines and cellular immune responses in pre-school Nigerian children infected with Plasmodium falciparum.
AB  - These findings indicate that Nigerian children infected with P. falciparum exhibit immune responses associated with active malaria infection and these responses were positively associated with increased P. falciparum parasitaemia.

UI  - 23293353
TI  - Assessment of immune interference, antagonism, and diversion following human immunization with biallelic blood-stage malaria viral-vectored vaccines and controlled malaria infection.
AB  - Overcoming antigenic variation is one of the major challenges in the development of an effective vaccine against Plasmodium falciparum, a causative agent of human malaria. Inclusion of multiple Ag variants in subunit vaccine candidates is one strategy that has aimed to overcome this problem for the leading blood-stage malaria vaccine targets, that is, merozoite surface protein 1 (MSP1) and apical membrane Ag 1 (AMA1). However, previous studies, utilizing malaria Ags, have concluded that inclusion of multiple allelic variants, encoding altered peptide ligands, in such a vaccine may be detrimental to both the priming and in vivo restimulation of Ag-experienced T cells. In this study, we analyze the T cell responses to two alleles of MSP1 and AMA1 induced by vaccination of malaria-naive adult volunteers with bivalent viral-vectored vaccine candidates. We show a significant bias to the 3D7/MAD20 allele compared with the Wellcome allele for the 33 kDa region of MSP1, but not for the 19 kDa fragment or the AMA1 Ag. Although this bias could be caused by "immune interference" at priming, the data do not support a significant role for "immune antagonism" during memory T cell restimulation, despite observation of the latter at a minimal epitope level in vitro. A lack of class I HLA epitopes in the Wellcome allele that are recognized by vaccinated volunteers may in fact contribute to the observed bias. We also show that controlled infection with 3D7 strain P. falciparum parasites neither boosts existing 3D7-specific T cell responses nor appears to "immune divert" cellular responses toward the Wellcome allele.

UI  - 23285095
TI  - Associations between antibodies to a panel of Plasmodium falciparum specific antigens and response to sub-optimal antimalarial therapy in Kampala, Uganda.
AB  - Measurement of antibody levels to AMA-1 at the time of malaria may offer a quantitative biomarker of blood stage immunity to P. falciparum, a tool which is currently lacking.

UI  - 23282136
TI  - Ascaris co-infection does not alter malaria-induced anaemia in a cohort of Nigerian preschool children.
AB  - In this cohort of Nigerian preschool children, malaria infection was the major contributor to anaemia status. Ascaris co-infection neither exacerbated nor ameliorated the severity of malarial anaemia.

UI  - 23273022
TI  - Increasing incidence of malaria in children despite insecticide-treated bed nets and prompt anti-malarial therapy in Tororo, Uganda.
AB  - Current Controlled Trials Identifier NCT00527800.

UI  - 23272227
TI  - Current status of artemisinin-resistant falciparum malaria in South Asia: a randomized controlled artesunate monotherapy trial in Bangladesh.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00639873.

UI  - 23272097
TI  - Capacity-building and clinical competence in infectious disease in Uganda: a mixed-design study with pre/post and cluster-randomized trial components.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT01190540.

UI  - 23270636
TI  - Multicentre study evaluating the non-inferiority of the new paediatric formulation of artesunate/amodiaquine versus artemether/lumefantrine for the management of uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in children in Cameroon, Ivory Coast and Senegal.
AB  - This study demonstrates the non-inferiority of AS+AQ versus AL, its efficacy and tolerance in the management of uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in African children.

UI  - 23262997
TI  - In vivo therapeutic efficacy of chloroquine alone or in combination with primaquine against vivax malaria in Kolkata, West Bengal, India, and polymorphism in pvmdr1 and pvcrt-o genes.
AB  - Plasmodium vivax malaria, though benign, has now become a matter of concern due to recent reports of life-threatening severity and development of parasite resistance to different antimalarial drugs. The magnitude of the problem is still undetermined. The present study was undertaken to determine the in vivo efficacy of chloroquine (CQ) and chloroquine plus primaquine in P. vivax malaria in Kolkata and polymorphisms in the pvmdr1 and pvcrt-o genes. A total of 250 patients with P. vivax monoinfection were recruited and randomized into two groups, A and B; treated with chloroquine and chloroquine plus primaquine, respectively; and followed up for 42 days according to the WHO protocol of 2009. Data were analyzed using per-protocol analyses. We assessed polymorphisms of the pvmdr1 and pvcrt-o genes by a DNA-sequencing method. Out of the 250 patients recruited, 204 completed a 42-day follow-up period, 101 in group A and 103 in group B. In group A, the non-PCR-corrected efficacy of CQ was 99% (95% confidence interval [CI], 0.944 to 1.00), and in group B, all cases were classified as adequate clinical and parasitological response (ACPR). Day 3 positivity was observed in 11 (5.3%) cases. No specific mutation pattern was recorded in the pvcrt-o gene. Eight nonsynonymous mutations were found in the pvmdr1 gene, three of which were new. The Y976F mutation was not detected in any isolate. Chloroquine, either alone or in combination with primaquine, is still effective against P. vivax malaria in the study area. (The study protocol was registered in CTRI [Clinical Trial Registry-India] of the Indian council of Medical Research under registration no. CTRI/2011/09/002031.).

UI  - 23254437
TI  - Randomized, open-label trial of primaquine against vivax malaria relapse in Indonesia.
AB  - Radical cure of Plasmodium vivax infection applies blood schizontocidal therapy against the acute attack and hypnozoitocidal therapy against later relapse. Chloroquine and primaquine have been used for 60 years in this manner. Resistance to chloroquine by the parasite now requires partnering other blood schizontocides with primaquine. However, the safety and efficacy of primaquine against relapse when combined with other drugs have not been demonstrated. This randomized, open-label, and relapse-controlled trial estimated the efficacy of primaquine against relapse when administered with quinine or dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine for treatment of the acute infection. Among 650 soldiers who had returned to their malaria-free base in Java, Indonesia, after 12 months in malarious Papua, Indonesia, 143 with acute P. vivax malaria were eligible for study. One hundred sixteen enrolled subjects were randomized to these treatments: artesunate (200-mg dose followed by 100 mg/day for 6 days), quinine (1.8 g/day for 7 days) plus concurrent primaquine (30 mg/day for 14 days), or dihydroartemisinin (120 mg) plus piperaquine (960 mg) daily for 3 days followed 25 days later by primaquine (30 mg/day for 14 days). Follow-up was for 12 months. One hundred thirteen subjects were analyzable. Relapse occurred in 32 of 41 (78%) subjects administered artesunate alone (2.71 attacks/person-year), 7 of 36 (19%) administered quinine plus primaquine (0.23 attack/person-year), and 2 of 36 (6%) administered dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine plus primaquine (0.06 attack/person-year). The efficacy of primaquine against relapse was 92% (95% confidence interval [CI] = 81% to 96%) for quinine plus primaquine and 98% (95% CI = 91% to 99%) for dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine plus primaquine. Antirelapse therapy with primaquine begun a month after treatment of the acute attack with dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine proved safe and highly efficacious against relapse by P. vivax acquired in Papua, Indonesia.

UI  - 23244570
TI  - Electrocardiographic study in Ghanaian children with uncomplicated malaria, treated with artesunate-amodiaquine or artemether-lumefantrine.
AB  - Artesunate-amodiaquine treatment resulted in a higher incidence of sinus bradycardia than artemether-lumefantrine treatment in children with uncomplicated malaria, but no clinically significant rhythm disturbances were induced by combining artesunate with amodiaquine. These findings, although reassuring, may imply that non-amodiaquine based artemisinin combination therapy may be preferable for malaria treatment in patients who are otherwise at risk of cardiac effects.

UI  - 23234606
TI  - Efficacy and tolerability of a new formulation of artesunate-mefloquine for the treatment of uncomplicated malaria in adult in Senegal: open randomized trial.
AB  - Artesunate-mefloquine (25 mg/Kg mefloquine) is efficacious and well-tolerated for the treatment of uncomplicated P. falciparum malaria in adult patients.

UI  - 23232095
TI  - Open-label trial of three dosage regimens of fixed-dose combination of artemisinin and naphthoquine for treating uncomplicated falciparum malaria in Calabar, Nigeria.
AB  - Concerns for emergence of parasite resistance due to the use of artemisinin-naphthoquine as single dose regimen is likely to compromise the usefulness of this potentially important combination treatment. A robust multi-centre trial is recommended to evaluate a three-day regimen with potentials to achieve high cure rates while minimizing the risk of emergence of resistant parasite strains.

UI  - 23225897
TI  - A community-randomized evaluation of the effect of intermittent preventive treatment in infants on antimalarial drug resistance in southern Tanzania.
AB  - IPTi did not increase drug pressure or the selection on dhfr and dhps mutants, when SP was the first-line malaria treatment. Introduction of artemether-lumefantrine was followed by an increase in dhfr mutations, consistent with weak selection attributable to SP-IPTi, but not by an increase in dhps mutations, suggesting a fitness cost of this mutation.

UI  - 23219288
TI  - The effects of malaria and HIV co-infection on hemoglobin levels among pregnant women in Sekondi-Takoradi, Ghana.
AB  - Pregnant women infected with both malaria and HIV are twice as likely to be anemic than women with a single infection or no infection. Measures to control malaria, HIV, and anemia during pregnancy are imperative to improve birth outcomes in this region of Ghana.

UI  - 23204168
TI  - Molecular basis of allele-specific efficacy of a blood-stage malaria vaccine: vaccine development implications.
AB  - The disappointing efficacy of blood-stage malaria vaccines may be explained in part by allele-specific immune responses that are directed against polymorphic epitopes on blood-stage antigens. FMP2.1/AS02(A), a blood-stage candidate vaccine based on apical membrane antigen 1 (AMA1) from the 3D7 strain of Plasmodium falciparum, had allele-specific efficacy against clinical malaria in a phase II trial in Malian children. We assessed the cross-protective efficacy of the malaria vaccine and inferred which polymorphic amino acid positions in AMA1 were the targets of protective allele-specific immune responses. FMP2.1/AS02(A) had the highest efficacy against AMA1 alleles that were identical to the 3D7 vaccine-type allele at 8 highly polymorphic amino acid positions in the cluster 1 loop (c1L) but differed from 3D7 elsewhere in the molecule. Comparison of the incidence of vaccine-type alleles before and after vaccination in the malaria vaccine and control groups and examination of the patterns of allele change at polymorphic positions in consecutive malaria episodes suggest that the highly polymorphic amino acid position 197 in c1L was the most critical determinant of allele-specific efficacy. These results indicate that a multivalent AMA1 vaccine with broad efficacy could include only a limited set of key alleles of this extremely polymorphic antigen.

UI  - 23201113
TI  - Systematic analysis of natural antibody responses to P. falciparum merozoite antigens by protein arrays.
AB  - With the completion of the functional genome, merozoite proteome and stage-specific transcriptomes of the intraerythrocytic developmental cycle of Plasmoidum falciparum, the development of new vaccine candidates targeting Plasmodium merozoites is now possible. Here we report using protein array technology to detect antibody responses to Plasmodium merozoite proteins by screening the serum of Plasmodium-exposed individuals. A total of 138 genes encoding P. falciparum merozoite proteins were cloned using the In-Fusion cloning method and expressed using a wheat germ cell-free system (WGCF). These proteins were then screened with serum from Plasmodium-exposed individuals and unexposed subjects using protein arrays. A total of 30 highly immunoreactive merozoite antigens were identified (21.7% of 138 target proteins), including 10 well-characterized blood-stage vaccine candidates for P. falciparum. In addition, we report for the first time 7 proteins (MSP3.5, MRSP2, ETRAMP11.2, ETRAMP14.1 and RALP1, and two hypothetical proteins PFA0210c and PF14_0572) as being immunologically reactive. These novel Plasmodium merozoite antigens may be potential vaccine candidates for blood-stage malaria, and warrant further study.

UI  - 23190222
TI  - Antiretroviral agents and prevention of malaria in HIV-infected Ugandan children.
AB  - Lopinavir-ritonavir-based ART as compared with NNRTI-based ART reduced the incidence of malaria by 41%, with the lower incidence attributable largely to a significant reduction in the recurrence of malaria after treatment with artemether-lumefantrine. Lopinavir-ritonavir-based ART was accompanied by an increase in serious adverse events. (Funded by the Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development; ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00978068.).

UI  - 23186785
TI  - NF135.C10: a new Plasmodium falciparum clone for controlled human malaria infections.
AB  - NCT01002833.

UI  - 23183442
TI  - Population pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties of intramuscular quinine in Tanzanian children with severe Falciparum malaria.
AB  - Although artesunate is clearly superior, parenteral quinine is still used widely for the treatment of severe malaria. A loading-dose regimen has been recommended for 30 years but is still often not used. A population pharmacokinetic study was conducted with 75 Tanzanian children aged 4 months to 8 years with severe malaria who received quinine intramuscularly; 69 patients received a loading dose of 20 mg quinine dihydrochloride (salt)/kg of body weight. Twenty-one patients had plasma quinine concentrations detectable at baseline. A zero-order absorption model with one-compartment disposition pharmacokinetics described the data adequately. Body weight was the only significant covariate and was implemented as an allometric function on clearance and volume parameters. Population pharmacokinetic parameter estimates (and percent relative standard errors [%RSE]) of elimination clearance, central volume of distribution, and duration of zero-order absorption were 0.977 liters/h (6.50%), 16.7 liters (6.39%), and 1.42 h (21.5%), respectively, for a typical patient weighing 11 kg. Quinine exposure was reduced at lower body weights after standard weight-based dosing; there was 18% less exposure over 24 h in patients weighing 5 kg than in those weighing 25 kg. Maximum plasma concentrations after the loading dose were unaffected by body weight. There was no evidence of dose-related drug toxicity with the loading dosing regimen. Intramuscular quinine is rapidly and reliably absorbed in children with severe falciparum malaria. Based on these pharmacokinetic data, a loading dose of 20 mg salt/kg is recommended, provided that no loading dose was administered within 24 h and no routine dose was administered within 12 h of admission. (This study has been registered with Current Controlled Trials under registration number ISRCTN 50258054.).

UI  - 23167586
TI  - Sustainability of market-based community distribution of Sprinkles in western Kenya.
AB  - To evaluate the sustainability of market-based community distribution of micronutrient powders (Sprinkles(), Hexagon Nutrition, Mumbai, India.) among pre-school children in Kenya, we conducted in August 2010 a follow-up survey, 18 months after study-related marketing and household monitoring ended. We surveyed 849 children aged 6-35 months randomly selected from 60 study villages. Nutritional biomarkers were measured by fingerstick; demographic characteristics, Sprinkles purchases and use were assessed through household questionnaires. We compared Sprinkles use, marketing efforts and biomarker levels with the data from surveys conducted in March 2007, March 2008 and March 2009. We used logistic regression to evaluate associations between marketing activities and Sprinkles use in the 2010 survey. At the 2010 follow-up, 21.9% of children used Sprinkles in the previous 7 days, compared with 64.9% in 2008 (P < 0.001). Average intake was 3.2 sachets week(-1) in 2008, 1.6 sachets week(-1) in 2009 and 1.1 sachets week(-1) in 2010 (P < 0.001). Factors associated with recent Sprinkles use in 2010 included young age [6-23 months vs. 24-35 months, adjusted odds ratio (aOR) = 1.5, P = 0.02], lowest 2 quintiles of socio-economic status (aOR = 1.7, P = 0.004), household attendance at trainings or launches (aOR = 2.8, P < 0.001) and ever receiving promotional items including free Sprinkles, calendars, cups and t-shirts (aOR = 1.7, P = 0.04). In 2010, there was increased prevalence of anaemia and malaria (P < 0.001), but not iron deficiency (P = 0.44), compared with that in 2008. Sprinkles use in 2010 was associated with decreased iron deficiency (P = 0.03). Sprinkles coverage reduced after stopping household monitoring and reducing marketing activities. Continued promotion and monitoring of Sprinkles usage may be important components to sustain the programme.

UI  - 23175563
TI  - The effect of primaquine on gametocyte development and clearance in the treatment of uncomplicated falciparum malaria with dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine in South sumatra, Western indonesia: an open-label, randomized, controlled trial.
AB  - Addition of single-dose 0.75 mg/kg primaquine shortens the infectivity period of DHP-treated patients and should be considered in low-transmission regions that aim to control and ultimately eliminate falciparum malaria. Clinical Trials Registration. NCT01392014.

UI  - 23175556
TI  - Effect of high-dose or split-dose artesunate on parasite clearance in artemisinin-resistant falciparum malaria.
AB  - Increasing the artesunate treatment dose up to 8 mg/kg/d or splitting the dose does not improve parasite clearance in either artemisinin resistant or more sensitive infections with P. falciparum. Clinical Trials Registration.ISRCTN15351875.

UI  - 23166499
TI  - Semaphorin-7A is an erythrocyte receptor for P. falciparum merozoite-specific TRAP homolog, MTRAP.
AB  - The motility and invasion of Plasmodium parasites is believed to require a cytoplasmic actin-myosin motor associated with a cell surface ligand belonging to the TRAP (thrombospondin-related anonymous protein) family. Current models of invasion usually invoke the existence of specific receptors for the TRAP-family ligands on the surface of the host cell; however, the identities of these receptors remain largely unknown. Here, we identify the GPI-linked protein Semaphorin-7A (CD108) as an erythrocyte receptor for the P. falciparum merozoite-specific TRAP homolog (MTRAP) by using a systematic screening approach designed to detect extracellular protein interactions. The specificity of the interaction was demonstrated by showing that binding was saturable and by quantifying the equilibrium and kinetic biophysical binding parameters using surface plasmon resonance. We found that two MTRAP monomers interact via their tandem TSR domains with the Sema domains of a Semaphorin-7A homodimer. Known naturally-occurring polymorphisms in Semaphorin-7A did not quantitatively affect MTRAP binding nor did the presence of glycans on the receptor. Attempts to block the interaction during in vitro erythrocyte invasion assays using recombinant proteins and antibodies showed no significant inhibitory effect, suggesting the inaccessibility of the complex to proteinaceous blocking agents. These findings now provide important experimental evidence to support the model that parasite TRAP-family ligands interact with specific host receptors during cellular invasion.

UI  - 23149582
TI  - Controlled human malaria infections by intradermal injection of cryopreserved Plasmodium falciparum sporozoites.
AB  - Controlled human malaria infection with sporozoites is a standardized and powerful tool for evaluation of malaria vaccine and drug efficacy but so far only applied by exposure to bites of Plasmodium falciparum (Pf)-infected mosquitoes. We assessed in an open label Phase 1 trial, infection after intradermal injection of respectively 2,500, 10,000, or 25,000 aseptic, purified, vialed, cryopreserved Pf sporozoites (PfSPZ) in three groups (N = 6/group) of healthy Dutch volunteers. Infection was safe and parasitemia developed in 15 of 18 volunteers (84%), 5 of 6 volunteers in each group. There were no differences between groups in time until parasitemia by microscopy or quantitative polymerase chain reaction, parasite kinetics, clinical symptoms, or laboratory values. This is the first successful infection by needle and syringe with PfSPZ manufactured in compliance with regulatory standards. After further optimization, the use of such PfSPZ may facilitate and accelerate clinical development of novel malaria drugs and vaccines.

UI  - 23136909
TI  - A phase 3 trial of RTS,S/AS01 malaria vaccine in African infants.
AB  - The RTS,S/AS01 vaccine coadministered with EPI vaccines provided modest protection against both clinical and severe malaria in young infants. (Funded by GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals and the PATH Malaria Vaccine Initiative; RTS,S ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00866619.).

UI  - 23130649
TI  - A flow cytometry-based workflow for detection and quantification of anti-plasmodial antibodies in vaccinated and naturally exposed individuals.
AB  - The current workflow advances detection and quantification of anti-plasmodial antibodies through improvement of a bias-prone, low-throughput to an unbiased, semi-automated, scalable method. In conclusion, this work presents a novel method for immunofluorescence assays in malaria research.

UI  - 23113947
TI  - Pyronaridine-artesunate granules versus artemether-lumefantrine crushed tablets in children with Plasmodium falciparum malaria: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov: identifier NCT00541385.

UI  - 23107112
TI  - Multicentre studies of insecticide-treated durable wall lining in Africa and South-East Asia: entomological efficacy and household acceptability during one year of field use.
AB  - Just as long-lasting insecticidal nets overcame several of the technical and logistical constraints associated with conventionally treated nets and then went to scale, this study demonstrates the potential of DL to sustain user compliance and overcome the operational challenges associated with IRS.

UI  - 23101492
TI  - In vivo susceptibility of Plasmodium falciparum to artesunate in Binh Phuoc Province, Vietnam.
AB  - NTC01165372.

UI  - 23090298
TI  - [Plasmodium vivax malaria recurrence according to the use of primaquine: analysis of longitudinal descriptive studies].
AB  - Although not 100%, PQ is effective in preventing recurrence. Total doses of 210 and 75 mg are equally effective, but 75 mg alone has been evaluated in India, where P. vivax seems to respond better to PQ than elsewhere. The effect of place in the proportion of recurrences seems evident, even using the same total dose. The role of follow-up time is not clear. Although the standard regimen has an average effectiveness of 90% or more, alternative regimens should be assessed.

UI  - 23089736
TI  - ChAd63-MVA-vectored blood-stage malaria vaccines targeting MSP1 and AMA1: assessment of efficacy against mosquito bite challenge in humans.
AB  - The induction of cellular immunity, in conjunction with antibodies, may be essential for vaccines to protect against blood-stage infection with the human malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum. We have shown that prime-boost delivery of P. falciparum blood-stage antigens by chimpanzee adenovirus 63 (ChAd63) followed by the attenuated orthopoxvirus MVA is safe and immunogenic in healthy adults. Here, we report on vaccine efficacy against controlled human malaria infection delivered by mosquito bites. The blood-stage malaria vaccines were administered alone, or together (MSP1+AMA1), or with a pre-erythrocytic malaria vaccine candidate (MSP1+ME-TRAP). In this first human use of coadministered ChAd63-MVA regimes, we demonstrate immune interference whereby responses against merozoite surface protein 1 (MSP1) are dominant over apical membrane antigen 1 (AMA1) and ME-TRAP. We also show that induction of strong cellular immunity against MSP1 and AMA1 is safe, but does not impact on parasite growth rates in the blood. In a subset of vaccinated volunteers, a delay in time to diagnosis was observed and sterilizing protection was observed in one volunteer coimmunized with MSP1+AMA1-results consistent with vaccine-induced pre-erythrocytic, rather than blood-stage, immunity. These data call into question the utility of T cell-inducing blood-stage malaria vaccines and suggest that the focus should remain on high-titer antibody induction against susceptible antigen targets.

UI  - 23088844
TI  - Malaria and gravidity interact to modify maternal haemoglobin concentrations during pregnancy.
AB  - In a context of IPTp, Hb levels improved progressively throughout pregnancy in primigravidae, likely as a result of reduction in malaria infection. In multigravidae, the improvement was less perceptible and anaemia was mainly due to iron deficiency.

UI  - 23085147
TI  - Lack of associations of (+)-thalassemia with the risk of Plasmodium falciparum and Plasmodium vivax infection and disease in a cohort of children aged 3-21 months from Papua New Guinea.
AB  - Despite consistent evidence of a protective effect of (+)-thalassemia against severe Plasmodium falciparum disease, the mechanisms underlying this protection remain unknown. An increase in risk of Plasmodium vivax malaria in early childhood resulting in a cross-species protection against severe P. falciparum malaria has been proposed as a possible mechanism in Melanesian children. The association of (+)-thalassemia genotypes with a risk of P. falciparum and P. vivax infection and uncomplicated illness was reassessed in a cohort of 1,112 Papua New Guinean children, followed from 3 to 21 months of age. Three hundred and eighty-nine (35.0%) children were homozygous for (+)-thalassemia (-/-), 506 (45.5%) heterozygous (/-) and 217 (19.5%) homozygous for the wild-type allele. No significant differences in the incidence of P. falciparum (Pf) or P. vivax (Pv) malaria were observed between (+)-thalassemia homozygote (Pf: incidence rate ratio (IRR)=1.13, CI(95) (0.82, 1.56), P=0.45, Pv: IRR=1.15, CI(95) (0.88, 1.50), P=0.31), heterozygote (Pf: IRR=0.98, CI(95) (0.71, 1.34), P=0.93, Pv: IRR=1.14, CI(95) (0.88, 1.48), P=0.33) and wild-type children. The prevalence of infection with either species did not differ between (+)-thalassemia genotypes, although densities of P. vivax (but not of P. falciparum) infections were significantly higher in (+)-thalassemia homozygote and heterozygote children. An excessive risk of moderate-to-severe anemia (Hb<8 g/dl) was observed in (+)-thalassemia homozygote children (IRR=1.54, CI(95) (1.12, 2.11), P=0.008). This study therefore failed to confirm an increased risk of P. vivax or P. falciparum malaria in very young, (+)-thalassemic children without significant levels of acquired immunity. This confirms the lack of protection by (+)-thalassemia against uncomplicated P. falciparum and challenges the hypothesis of immunological cross-protection between P. falciparum and P. vivax as a mechanism underlying (+)-thalassemia protection against severe P. falciparum disease in Melanesian children.

UI  - 23083017
TI  - Therapeutic efficacy of artemether-lumefantrine for Plasmodium vivax infections in a prospective study in Guyana.
AB  - In Guyana, artemether-lumefantrine represents an adequate treatment option against P. vivax when combined with primaquine. Availability of this alternative will be of great importance in case of emerging chloroquine resistance against P. vivax.

UI  - 23058047
TI  - Population pharmacokinetics of halofantrine in healthy volunteers and patients with symptomatic falciparum malaria.
AB  - The pharmacokinetic properties of HF in patients with malaria are affected by several demographic variables as well as other relevant covariates. Apparent differences between the healthy volunteer and the patient data analysis results are not entirely due to differences in bioavailability. For the patient data analysis, the Bayesian method was preferred, as the fitting procedure was more stable, allowing random effects to be estimated for all four dispositional parameters.

UI  - 23056238
TI  - Phase 1 study in malaria nave adults of BSAM2/Alhydrogel+CPG 7909, a blood stage vaccine against P. falciparum malaria.
AB  - Clinicaltrials.gov NCT00889616.

UI  - 23056012
TI  - Effect of vitamin A adjunct therapy for cerebral malaria in children admitted to Mulago hospital: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Vitamin A as adjunct therapy did not significantly reduce coma duration but there were fewer deaths in the vitamin A arm.

UI  - 23055384
TI  - [Assessment of a rapid diagnostic test and portable fluorescent microscopy for malaria diagnosis in Cotonou (Bnin)].
AB  - The aim of the study was to determine the accuracy of a rapid diagnostic test (SD Bioline Malaria Ag P.f/ Pan) and fluorescent microscopy (CyScope) in confirming presumptive malaria diagnosis in Cotonou. Thick blood smear was used as the reference technique for comparison. Testing was conducted on persons between the ages of 6 months and 70 years at two hospitals from June to October 2010. If malaria was suspected in the sample by the nurse based on clinical findings and sent to laboratory for confirmation, one thick smear, one rapid diagnostic test and one slide for the fluorescent microscopy were performed. All tests were read in hospital laboratories involved with the quality control of thick blood smear in the parasitology laboratory of National University Hospital of Cotonou. A total of 354 patients with clinical diagnosis of malaria were included. Malaria prevalence determined by thick smear, rapid diagnostic test and fluorescent microscopy was 22.8%, 25.4%, and 25.1% respectively. The sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive values compared to the thick smears were 96.3, 95.6, 86.7, and 98.9% for rapid diagnostic test; and 97.5, 96.7, 89.8, and 99.27% for fluorescent microscopy. With these performances, these tests meet acceptability standards recommended by WHO for rapid tests (sensitivity > 95%). These two methods have advantages for the confirmation of malaria diagnosis in peripheral health structures that lack the resources to conduct diagnosis confirmation by the thick blood smear.

UI  - 22983072
TI  - Good efficacy of artemether-lumefantrine for uncomplicated falciparum malaria in eastern Sumba, East Nusatenggara, Indonesia.
AB  - the findings of this uncontrolled study suggest good safety and efficacy of artemether-lumefantrine for treatment of uncomplicated falciparum malaria on Sumba Island in the Lesser Sundas archipelago of eastern Indonesia.

UI  - 22966124
TI  - Relapses contribute significantly to the risk of Plasmodium vivax infection and disease in Papua New Guinean children 1-5 years of age.
AB  - Hypnozoites are an important source of P. vivax infection and contribute substantially to the high burden of P. vivax disease observed in young Papua New Guinean children. Even in highly endemic areas with a high risk of reinfection, antihypnozoite treatment should be given to all cases with parasitologically confirmed P. vivax infections.

UI  - 22960126
TI  - Effect of heterozygous beta thalassemia on the phosphorylative response to Plasmodium falciparum infection.
AB  - Malaria parasites interact with the host cell membrane inserting new proteins and inducing oxidative and phosphorylative changes of erythrocyte proteins. In the present report we monitored the time dependent oxidative and phosphorylative modifications induced by parasites in heterozygous beta thalassemia (Het-Thal). Het-Thal causes mild anemia and is known to determine a pro-oxidant milieu and a protective effect against severe malaria. In malaria cultures Het-Thal has been reported to induce accumulation of hemoglobin denaturation products. At early parasite development stages (rings), tyrosine hyper-phosphorylation of band 3 was the most notable modification, and at later development stages (trophozoites), additional membrane proteins displayed significant hyper-phosphorylation of their serine and tyrosine residues (adducins, ankyrin, catalase). Het-Thal also caused membrane destabilization. Free radical scavengers effectively inhibited the phosphorylative response and membrane destabilization. Kinase inhibitors exerted similar effects suggesting a causal relationship between oxidative stress, membrane protein hyper-phosphorylation and increased membrane damage exacerbated by Het-Thal. In conclusion, different lines of evidence suggest that Het-Thal enhances the redox stress caused by malaria parasites inducing its protective effect destabilizing the host cell membrane. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Integrated omics.

UI  - 22958441
TI  - A quasi-experimental evaluation of an interpersonal communication intervention to increase insecticide-treated net use among children in Zambia.
AB  - ITN use increased dramatically in the district between 2008 and 2010. It is likely that IPC activities in general may have contributed to the observed increase in ITN use, as the increased observed in this study was far higher than the increase observed between 2008 and 2010 malaria indicator survey (MIS) estimates. Contamination across control communities, coupled with linear settlement patterns and subsequent behavioural norms related to communication in the area, likely contributed to the observed increase in net use and null effect in this study.

UI  - 22950512
TI  - Plasmodium falciparum, anaemia and cognitive and educational performance among school children in an area of moderate malaria transmission: baseline results of a cluster randomized trial on the coast of Kenya.
AB  - The results indicate that in this moderate malaria transmission setting, P. falciparum is strongly associated with anaemia, but there is no clear association between health status and education. Intervention studies are underway to investigate whether removing the burden of chronic asymptomatic P. falciparum and related anaemia can improve education outcomes.

UI  - 22946985
TI  - Effects of malaria volunteer training on coverage and timeliness of diagnosis: a cluster randomized controlled trial in Myanmar.
AB  - The results show that implementing volunteer programmes to improve the coverage of accurate and timely diagnosis with RDT and early treatment may be beneficial but the timeliness of detection and sustainability must be improved.

UI  - 22940027
TI  - Artemisinin-resistant Plasmodium falciparum in Pursat province, western Cambodia: a parasite clearance rate study.
AB  - Division of Intramural Research, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of Health.

UI  - 22939709
TI  - Assessing the impact of scaling-up bednet coverage through agricultural loan programmes: evidence from a cluster randomised controlled trial in Katete, Zambia.
AB  - To investigate the effectiveness of scaling-up existing bednet distribution campaigns, a randomised controlled trial with 516 farming households in Katete District, a rural area with highly endemic malaria in Zambia's Eastern Province, was evaluated. In the trial, selected farmers were assigned to bednet programmes that allowed them to obtain additional bednets for free or at subsidised prices through agricultural loan programmes. On average, 2.4 nets were distributed in the free distribution group and 0.9 in the net loan group. The marginal health impact of additional nets appears large, reducing the odds of self-reported all-cause morbidity by 40-42% and the odds of self-reported confirmed malaria by 53-60%.

UI  - 22936993
TI  - Mosquito feeding assays to determine the infectiousness of naturally infected Plasmodium falciparum gametocyte carriers.
AB  - Despite a higher efficiency of direct skin feeding assays, membrane feeding assays appear suitable tools to compare the infectiousness between individuals and to evaluate transmission-reducing interventions. Several aspects of membrane feeding procedures currently lack standardization; this variability makes comparisons between laboratories challenging and should be addressed to facilitate future testing of transmission-reducing interventions.

UI  - 22927801
TI  - Diagnosing severe falciparum malaria in parasitaemic African children: a prospective evaluation of plasma PfHRP2 measurement.
AB  - Plasma PfHRP2 has prognostic significance in African children with severe falciparum malaria and provides a tool to stratify the risk of "true" severe malaria-attributable disease as opposed to other severe illnesses in parasitaemic African children.

UI  - 22915294
TI  - Whole cowpea meal fortified with NaFeEDTA reduces iron deficiency among Ghanaian school children in a malaria endemic area.
AB  - Cowpeas, like other legumes, contain high amounts of native iron but are rich in phytic acid (PA) and polyphenols (PP) that inhibit iron absorption. NaFeEDTA may overcome the combined inhibitory effect of PA and PP. Our objective was to test the efficacy of NaFeEDTA-fortified cowpea meal in improving iron status of school children in a malaria endemic area. We conducted a double-blind, controlled trial with 5- to 12-y-old school children from 2 rural communities in northern Ghana (n = 241). Eligible children were randomly assigned to 2 treatment groups to receive either cowpea meal fortified with 10 mg Fe/meal as NaFeEDTA, or an identical but nonfortified cowpea meal. Meals were provided 3 d/wk for a period of ~7 mo under strict supervision. Mass deworming and malaria antigenemia screening and treatment were carried out at baseline and 3.5 mo into the trial. Consumption of cowpea flour fortified with NaFeEDTA resulted in improvement of hemoglobin (P < 0.05), serum ferritin (P < 0.001), and body iron stores (P < 0.001) and reduction of transferrin receptor (P < 0.001) compared with nonfortified flour. Fortification resulted in a 30 and 47% reduction in the prevalence of iron deficiency (ID) and iron deficiency anemia (IDA) (P < 0.05), respectively. The results indicate that fortification of cowpea flour with NaFeEDTA overcomes the combined inhibitory effect of PA and PP and, when used for targeted school-based fortification of cowpea flour, is effective in reducing the prevalence of ID and IDA among school children in malaria endemic rural northern Ghana.

UI  - 22912697
TI  - A longitudinal trial comparing chloroquine as monotherapy or in combination with artesunate, azithromycin or atovaquone-proguanil to treat malaria.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00379821.

UI  - 22909232
TI  - Cytoadherence in paediatric malaria: ABO blood group, CD36, and ICAM1 expression and severe Plasmodium falciparum infection.
AB  - As a leading cause of childhood mortality worldwide, selection pressure by Plasmodium falciparum continues to shape the human genome. Severe disturbances within the microcirculation result from the adhesion of infected erythrocytes to host receptors on monocytes, platelets, and endothelium. In this prospective study, we compared expression of all major host cytoadhesion receptors among Ugandan children presenting with uncomplicated malaria (n=1078) versus children with severe malaria (n=855), including cerebral malaria (n=174), severe anaemia (n=522), and lactic acidosis (n=154). We report a significant survival advantage attributed to blood group O and increased monocyte expression of CD36 and ICAM1 (CD54). The high case fatality rate syndromes of cerebral malaria and lactic acidosis were associated with high platelet CD36 expression and thrombocytopenia, and severe malaria anaemia was characterized by low ICAM1 expression. In a logistic regression model of disease severity, odds ratios for the mitigating effects of blood group O, CD36, and ICAM1 phenotypes were greater than that of sickle haemoglobin. Host genetic adaptations to Plasmodium falciparum suggest new potential malaria treatment strategies.

UI  - 22908694
TI  - Oral administration of ferrous sulfate, but not of iron polymaltose or sodium iron ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (NaFeEDTA), results in a substantial increase of non-transferrin-bound iron in healthy iron-adequate men.
AB  - Administration of two iron compounds of proven bioavailability, but with complex absorption characteristics, is associated with a negligible NTBI response, potentially mitigating the safety concerns associated with iron supplementation in malarial areas.

UI  - 22905781
TI  - Timing of malaria messages for target audience on radio airwaves.
AB  - Planners of malaria radio interventions need to broadcast their messages within the two peak EAT of 12.00-14.00 and 18.00-23.00.

UI  - 22870238
TI  - Effect of preventive supplementation with zinc and other micronutrients on non-malarial morbidity in Tanzanian pre-school children: a randomized trial.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00623857.

UI  - 22869581
TI  - Pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of oral artesunate monotherapy in patients with uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in western Cambodia.
AB  - Artemisinin-resistant malaria along the Thailand-Cambodian border is an important public health concern, yet mechanisms of drug action and their contributions to the development of resistance are poorly understood. The pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of oral artesunate monotherapy were explored in a dose-ranging trial in an area of emerging artesunate resistance in western Cambodia. We enrolled 143 evaluable subjects with uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in an open label study of directly observed artesunate monotherapy at 3 dose levels (2, 4, and 6 mg/kg of body weight/day) for 7 days at Tasanh Health Center, Tasanh, Cambodia. Clinical outcomes were similar among the 3 groups. Wide variability in artesunate and dihydroartemisinin concentrations in plasma was observed. No significant dose-effect or concentration-effect relationships between pharmacokinetic (PK) and parasite clearance parameters were observed, though baseline parasitemia was modestly correlated with increased parasite clearance times. The overall parasite clearance times were prolonged compared with the clearance times in a previous study at this site in 2006 to 2007, but this did not persist when the evaluation was limited to subjects with a comparable artesunate dose (4 mg/kg/day) and baseline parasitemia from the two studies. Reduced plasma drug levels with higher presentation parasitemias, previously hypothesized to result from partitioning into infected red blood cells, was not observed in this population with uncomplicated malaria. Neither in vitro parasite susceptibility nor plasma drug concentrations appeared to have a direct relationship with the pharmacodynamic (PD) effects of oral artesunate on malaria parasites. While direct concentration-effect relationships were not found, it remains possible that a population PK modeling approach that allows modeling of greater dose separation might discern more-subtle relationships.

UI  - 22855753
TI  - Insecticide-treated plastic sheeting for emergency malaria prevention and shelter among displaced populations: an observational cohort study in a refugee setting in Sierra Leone.
AB  - A double-blind phase III malaria prevention trial was conducted in two refugee camps using pre-manufactured insecticide-treated plastic sheeting (ITPS) or untreated polyethylene sheeting (UPS) randomly deployed to defined sectors of each camp. In Largo camp the ITPS or UPS was attached to inner walls and ceilings of shelters, whereas in Tobanda the ITPS or UPS was used to line only the ceiling and roof. In Largo the Plasmodium falciparum incidence rate in children up to 3 years of age who were cleared of parasites and monitored for 8 months was 163/100 person-years under UPS and 63 under ITPS (adjusted odds ratio [AOR] = 0.40, 95% confidence interval [CI] = 0.33-0.47). In Tobanda incidence was 157/100 person-years under UPS and 134 under ITPS (AOR = 0.85, 95% CI = 0.75-0.95). Protective efficacy was 61% under fully lined ITPS and 15% under roof lined ITPS. Anemia rates improved under ITPS in both camps. This novel tool proved to be a convenient, safe, and long-lasting method of malaria control when used as a full shelter lining in an emergency setting.

UI  - 22829919
TI  - The effect of monthly sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine, alone or with azithromycin, on PCR-diagnosed malaria at delivery: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Our results suggest that increasing the frequency of SP administration during pregnancy improves the efficacy against malaria at delivery among HIV-negative women, as well as a population consisting of both HIV-positive and -negative pregnant women of all gravidities, in a setting of relatively low but holoendemic malaria transmission, frequent use of bed nets and high SP resistance.

UI  - 22824059
TI  - Open-label trial with artemether-lumefantrine against uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria three years after its broad introduction in Jimma Zone, Ethiopia.
AB  - In general, AL was effective and well tolerated in Jimma Zone, Ethiopia. However, the PCR-corrected recrudescence rate per-protocol at day 42 for children  5years was 9.4%. Therefore, further development should be monitored on a regular basis as recommended by WHO.

UI  - 22818552
TI  - Therapeutic efficacy and safety of dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine versus artesunate-mefloquine in uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in India.
AB  - Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN 81306618.

UI  - 22808048
TI  - Genotyping of Plasmodium vivax reveals both short and long latency relapse patterns in Kolkata.
AB  - Controlled-Trials.com ISRCTN14027467.

UI  - 22801093
TI  - Effects of cotrimoxazole prophylactic treatment on adverse health outcomes among HIV-exposed, uninfected infants.
AB  - CPT offered temporary protection against malaria among HIV-exposed, uninfected infants. However, CPT offered no protection against anemia, low weight for age or the collapsed outcome of severe illness or death.

UI  - 22768052
TI  - Humoral immune responses to a single allele PfAMA1 vaccine in healthy malaria-nave adults.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00730782.

UI  - 22764291
TI  - Repeated artemisinin-based combination therapies in a malaria hyperendemic area of Mali: efficacy, safety, and public health impact.
AB  - Artemisinin-based combination therapies (ACTs) are the first-line treatment of uncomplicated malaria. The public health benefit and safety of repeated administration of a given ACT are poorly studied. We conducted a randomized trial comparing artemether-lumefantrine, artesunate plus amodiaquine (AS+AQ) and artesunate plus sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine (AS+SP) in patients 6 months of age and older with uncomplicated malaria in Mali from July 2005 to July 2007. The patient received the same initial treatment of each subsequent uncomplicated malaria episode except for treatment failures where quinine was used. Overall, 780 patients were included. Patients in the AS+AQ and AS+SP arms had significantly less risk of having malaria episodes; risk ratio (RR) = 0.84 (P = 0.002) and RR = 0.80 (P = 0.001), respectively. The treatment efficacy was similar and above 95% in all arms. Although all drugs were highly efficacious and well tolerated, AS+AQ and AS+SP were associated with less episodes of malaria.

UI  - 22741618
TI  - The efficacy and tolerability of artemisinin-piperaquine (Artequick) versus artesunate-amodiaquine (Coarsucam) for the treatment of uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in south-central Vietnam.
AB  - Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry Number, ACTRN12609000816257.

UI  - 22730036
TI  - Reduced systemic bicyclo-prostaglandin-E2 and cyclooxygenase-2 gene expression are associated with inefficient erythropoiesis and enhanced uptake of monocytic hemozoin in children with severe malarial anemia.
AB  - In holoendemic Plasmodium falciparum transmission areas, severe malaria primarily occurs in children aged <48 months and manifests as severe malarial anemia [SMA; hemoglobin (Hb) < 6.0 g/dL]. Induction of high levels of prostaglandin-E(2) (PGE(2)) through inducible cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) is an important host-defense mechanism against invading pathogens. We have previously shown that COX-2-derived PGE(2) levels are reduced in children residing in hyperendemic transmission regions with cerebral malaria and in those with mixed sequelae of anemia and hyperparasitemia. Our in vitro studies further demonstrated that reduced PGE(2) was due to downregulation of COX-2 gene products following phagocytosis of malarial pigment (hemozoin, PfHz). However, as COX-2-PGE(2) pathways and the impact of naturally acquired PfHz on erythropoietic responses have not been determined in children with SMA, plasma and urinary bicyclo-PGE(2)/creatinine and leukocytic COX-2 transcripts were determined in parasitized children (<36 months) stratified into SMA (n = 36) and non-SMA (Hb  6.0 g/dL; n = 38). Children with SMA had significantly reduced plasma (P = 0.001) and urinary (P < 0.001) bicyclo-PGE(2)/creatinine and COX-2 transcripts (P = 0.007). There was a significant positive association between Hb and both plasma (r = 0.363, P = 0.002) and urinary (r = 0.500, P = 0.001)] bicyclo-PGE(2)/creatinine. Furthermore, decreased systemic bicyclo-PGE(2)/creatinine was associated with inefficient erythropoiesis (i.e., reticulocyte production index; RPI < 2.0, P = 0.026). Additional analyses demonstrated that plasma (P = 0.031) and urinary (P = 0.070) bicyclo-PGE(2)/creatinine and COX-2 transcripts (P = 0.026) progressively declined with increasing concentrations of naturally acquired PfHz by monocytes. Results presented here support a model in which reduced COX-2-derived PGE(2), driven in part by naturally acquired PfHz by monocytes, promotes decreased erythropoietic responses in children with SMA.

UI  - 22721883
TI  - Differential acquisition of human antibody responses to Plasmodium falciparum according to intensity of exposure to Anopheles bites.
AB  - Malaria immunity is modulated by many environmental and epidemiological factors. This study evaluates the influence of a hitherto unstudied environmental-epidemiological factor, namely the impact of human exposure to Anopheles bites on the isotype profile of acquired antibody responses to Plasmodium falciparum. In two Senegalese villages where the intensity of exposure to Anopheles bites was markedly different (high and low exposure), specific IgG1 and IgG3 responses to P. falciparum whole schizont extract (WSE) and circumsporozoite protein (CSP) were evaluated at the peak of Anopheles exposure (September) and later (December) in a cohort of 120 children aged 3-8 years. Multivariate analysis showed a significantly lower IgG1 response against P. falciparum WSE and CSP in children highly exposed to Anopheles bites (Gankette) compared to those who were weakly exposed (Mboula). In contrast, in both villages, parasitemia and increasing age were strongly associated with higher IgG1 and IgG3 levels. We hypothesize that high exposure to Anopheles bites could inhibit IgG1-dependent responsiveness to P. falciparum known to induce protective immune responses against malaria. The impact of mosquito saliva on the regulation of specific protective immunity may need to be taken into account in epidemiological studies and trials for malaria vaccines.

UI  - 22720832
TI  - Therapy of uncomplicated falciparum malaria in Europe: MALTHER - a prospective observational multicentre study.
AB  - This study highlights the heterogeneity of standards of care within Europe. A consensus discussion at European level is desirable to foster a standardized management of imported falciparum malaria.

UI  - 22706291
TI  - Tolerability of mefloquine intermittent preventive treatment for malaria in HIV-infected pregnant women in Benin.
AB  - This study provides reassuring data on the use of MQ IPTp in HIV-infected pregnant women. However frequent, adverse reactions remained moderate and did not impair adherence to MQ IPTp. In this high-risk group, MQ might be an acceptable alternative in case sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine loses its efficacy for intermittent preventive treatment.

UI  - 22689680
TI  - Hepcidin demonstrates a biphasic association with anemia in acute Plasmodium falciparum malaria.
AB  - Hepcidin levels are high and iron absorption is limited in acute malaria. The mechanism(s) that regulate hepcidin secretion remain undefined. We have measured hepcidin concentration and cytokines in 100 Kenyan children with acute falciparum malaria and different degrees of anemia. Hepcidin was increased on admission and fell significantly one week and one month after treatment. The association of hepcidin with hemoglobin was not linear and hepcidin was very low in severe malarial anemia. Parasite density, IL-10 and IL-6 were significantly associated with hepcidin concentration. Hepcidin response to acute malaria supports the notion of iron sequestration during acute malaria infection and suggests that iron administration during acute malaria is futile. These data suggest iron supplementation policies should take into account the high hepcidin levels and probable poor utilization of iron for up to one week after treatment for the majority of patients with acute malaria.

UI  - 22687893
TI  - Significant pharmacokinetic interactions between artemether/lumefantrine and efavirenz or nevirapine in HIV-infected Ugandan adults.
AB  - Co-administration of artemether/lumefantrine with efavirenz or nevirapine resulted in a reduction in artemether, dihydroartemisinin, lumefantrine and nevirapine exposure. These drug interactions may increase the risk of malaria treatment failure and development of resistance to artemether/lumefantrine and nevirapine. Clinical data from population pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic trials evaluating the impact of these drug interactions are urgently needed.

UI  - 22682536
TI  - Combination of malaria vector control interventions in pyrethroid resistance area in Benin: a cluster randomised controlled trial.
AB  - Ministre Franais des Affaires Etrangres et Europennes (FSP project 2006-22), Institut de Recherche pour le Dveloppement, President's Malaria Initiative (PMI) of US Governement.

UI  - 22682276
TI  - A cost-effectiveness analysis of provider and community interventions to improve the treatment of uncomplicated malaria in Nigeria: study protocol for a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Clinicaltrials.gov NCT01350752.

UI  - 22682024
TI  - Effectiveness and durability of Interceptor long-lasting insecticidal nets in a malaria endemic area of central India.
AB  - Interceptor nets were highly effective in reducing vector densities as well as malaria incidence in the study villages. Availability of 78% nets with the households in usable condition clearly indicated durability of Interceptor LNs up to three years in the rural setting of India. The nets were found to contain an effective concentration of alpha-cypermethrin against malaria vector after three years of household use.

UI  - 22657534
TI  - Implications for health education and intervention strategies arising from children's caregivers concerns following successful malaria control.
AB  - Malaria is still responsible for 10% of the total disease burden in Africa. This study was an empirical investigation addressing the extent to which, and the ways in which, sociocultural, family-based, demographic and economic circumstances in a poor rural African environment influence levels of active malaria infection risk awareness. Face-to-face interviews were conducted and the questions included both open-ended questions allowing for unprompted replies and closed fixed-answer alternative (prompted) items. The adult female responsible for the day-to-day care of the children in 156 homesteads (60 in each of two malaria villages and 36 in a reference village) was interviewed. The families received financial assistance but little physical support from the fathers. Unemployment, poverty, crime and clean water were perceived as the main, unprompted threats, and everyday awareness appeared to exclude the potentially serious disease threats of malaria. Only when malaria was prompted did the concerns rise to 52% and 38% in the sprayed villages. The apparent discrepancy between actual daily and potential future threats significantly increases the difficulty of mobilising communities for preventive action regarding potential threats. The lack of community involvement in an existing community-passive malaria control system may become a problem when promoting new/additional measures to reduce exposure to indoor residual spraying chemicals.

UI  - 22631564
TI  - Efficacy of fixed-dose combination artesunate-amodiaquine versus artemether-lumefantrine for uncomplicated childhood Plasmodium falciparum malaria in Democratic Republic of Congo: a randomized non-inferiority trial.
AB  - The protocol was registered with the clinicaltrials.gov, open clinical trial registry under the identifier number NCT01567423.

UI  - 22615323
TI  - Low-level Plasmodium falciparum blood-stage infection causes dendritic cell apoptosis and dysfunction in healthy volunteers.
AB  - Plasmodium causes DC loss in vivo, which is at least partially explained by apoptosis in response to blood-stage parasites. In primary infection, loss of DC number and function occurs early during the prepatent period and before or with onset of clinical symptoms. These findings may explain in part the inadequate development of immunity to blood-stage malaria infection.

UI  - 22615322
TI  - Efficacy of preerythrocytic and blood-stage malaria vaccines can be assessed in small sporozoite challenge trials in human volunteers.
AB  - The development of a vaccine against malaria has public health priority. In a controlled setting, preliminary data on the efficacy of Plasmodium falciparum vaccine candidates can be obtained by exposing immunized human volunteers to the bites of laboratory-reared P. falciparum-infected mosquitoes. Using empirical data, we show that these trials, with small numbers of volunteers, are sufficiently powered to detect protective biological effects induced by preerythrocytic and/or blood-stage candidate vaccines if parasitemia is measured daily by quantitative polymerase chain reaction. Sporozoite challenge trials are thus a powerful tool for early selection of candidates that warrant efficacy of trials in the field.

UI  - 22595272
TI  - Quality and safety of integrated community case management of malaria using rapid diagnostic tests and pneumonia by community health workers.
AB  - Volunteer CHWs in rural Zambia are capable of providing integrated management of malaria and pneumonia to children safely and at high quality.

UI  - 22592579
TI  - Effects of educational intervention on long-lasting insecticidal nets use in a malarious area, southeast Iran.
AB  - Long-lasting insecticidal nets (LLINs) have been advocated as an effective tool against malaria transmission. However, success of this community based intervention largely depends on the knowledge and practice regarding malaria and its prevention. According to the national strategy plan on evaluation of LLINs (Olyset nets), this study was conducted to determine the perceptions and practices about malaria and to improve use of LLINs in Bashagard district, one of the important foci of malaria in southeast Iran. The study area comprised 14 villages that were randomized in two clusters and designated as LLINs and untreated nets. Each of households in both clusters received two bed nets by the free distribution and delivery. After one month quantitative data collection method was used to collect information regarding the objectives of the study. On the basis of this information, an educational program was carried out in both areas to increase motivation for use of bed nets. Community knowledge and practice regarding malaria and LLIN use assessed pre- and post-educational program. The data were analyzed using SPSS ver.16 software. At baseline, 77.5% of respondents in intervention and 69.4 % in control area mentioned mosquito bite as the cause of malaria, this awareness increased significantly in intervention (90.3%) and control areas (87.9%), following the educational program. A significant increase also was seen in the proportion of households who used LLINs the previous night (92.5%) compared with untreated nets (87.1%). Educational status was an important predictor of LLINs use. Regular use of LLIN was considerably higher than the targeted coverage (80%) which recommended by World Heaths Organization. About 81.1% and 85.3% of respondents from LLIN and control areas reported that mosquito nuisance and subsequent malaria transmission were the main determinants of bed net use. These findings highlight a need for educational intervention in implementation of long-lasting insecticidal nets; this should be considered in planning and decision-making in the national malaria control program during the next campaigns of LLINs in Iran.

UI  - 22586253
TI  - Arterolane maleate plus piperaquine phosphate for treatment of uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria: a comparative, multicenter, randomized clinical trial.
AB  - The available data support the evaluation of a drug combination in a larger population as a fixed-dose combination. Clinical Trials Registration.CTRI/2007/091/000031.

UI  - 22579798
TI  - Field evaluation of permethrin long-lasting insecticide treated nets (Olyset()) for malaria control in an endemic area, southeast of Iran.
AB  - Long lasting insecticide treated nets (LLINs) have been advocated as an effective tool for prevention and control of malaria. Olyset net was the first LLINs which became commercially available and obtained WHO approval. According to the national strategic plan on evaluation of Olyset net, a field trial was conducted to determine the efficacy of these nets against malaria vectors in an endemic area in the southeast of Iran. Fourteen villages with similar topographical and epidemiological situations were selected and randomly assigned to two clusters of the study: Olyset net and untreated net. Distribution of nets was carried out to cover 100% of the population in Olyset net and untreated net cluster. Anopheline mosquitoes were collected monthly using different WHO standard methods in both areas to determine their abundance, feeding pattern and resting behaviour. Human blood index was determined using ELISA test. Additionally, Olyset nets were evaluated for their biological activity using WHO cone bioassay test by susceptible colony of Anopheles stephensi (Beech strain) and then for insecticide residues by employing high performance thin layer chromatography. Malaria incidence was measured by passive and active case detection from all study population. In total 2115 adult anopheline mosquitoes were collected and identified using morphological characters. They comprised of seven species: Anopheles dthali (Liston), A. culicifacies (Giles), A. stephensi (Liston), A. superpictus (Grassi), A.fluviatilis (James), A. moghulensis (Christophers) and A. turkhudi (Liston). A. dthali, A. culicifacies and A. stephensi were most prevalent species in both areas. In the Olyset net study area, there was a significant reduction of 41.1%, 54.4%, 59.39% and 64.1% in the indoor-resting density of A. culicifacies, A. stephensi, A. dthali and A. superpictus, respectively, with an overall reduction of 39.3% in total mosquitoes in comparison with untreated net area. A significant reduction was also observed in human blood index of vector species in the Olyset net villages. Bioefficacy test results of Olyset nets showed that the median knockdown time was 1.48 and 3.25min, while the average mortality rate was 100% and 72.3%7.07 in baseline and after 1 year of intervention, respectively. The average permethrin content reached to 68.31% (683.1mg/m(2)) of the initial insecticide dose of 93721.69mg/m(2) (nearly 1000mg/m(2)) at the end of intervention. Malaria incidence was reduced by 96.6% and 64.8% in the village with Olyset nets and in the villages with untreated nets, respectively. During intervention period, there was a reduction of 93.2% in malaria incidence in Olyset net area as compared to the untreated area. This study indicated that Olyset nets have a major impact on malaria vectors and disease burden; therefore it could be recommended as an effective personal protection tool for malaria control in malarious areas.

UI  - 22569564
TI  - ITN protection, MSP1 antibody levels and malaria episodes in young children of rural Burkina Faso.
AB  - Malaria blood-stage vaccines are in an early phase of clinical development with MSP1 being a major antigen candidate. There are limited data on the protective efficacy of antibodies against subunits of MSP1 in the malaria endemic areas of sub-Saharan Africa. This prospective cohort study was nested into a large insecticide-treated mosquito net (ITN) trial during which neonates were individually randomised to ITN protection from birth vs. protection from month six onwards in rural Burkina Faso. A sub sample of 120 children from three villages was followed for 10 months with six measurements of MSP1(42) antibodies (ELISA based on recombinant 42kDa fragment) and daily assessment of malaria episodes. Time to the next malaria episode was determined in relation to MSP1(42) antibody titres. MSP1(42) antibody titres were dependent on age, season, ITN-group, number of previous malaria episodes and parasitaemia. There were no significant differences in time until the next malaria episode in children with low compared to children with high MSP1(42) antibody titres at any point in time (101 vs. 97 days in May, p=0.6; 58 vs. 84 days in September, p=0.3; 144 vs. 161 days in March, p=0.5). The findings of this study support the short-lived nature of the humoral immune response in infants of malaria endemic areas. The study provides no evidence for antibodies against a subunit of MSP1 being protective against new malaria episodes in infants.

UI  - 22558108
TI  - Ready-to-use therapeutic food for catch-up growth in children after an episode of Plasmodium falciparum malaria: an open randomised controlled trial.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00819858.

UI  - 22554203
TI  - Efficacy and safety of artemisinin-naphthoquine versus dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine in adult patients with uncomplicated malaria: a multi-centre study in Indonesia.
AB  - AN and DHP are confirmed very effective, safe and tolerate for treatment of any malaria. Both drugs are promising for multiple first-line therapy policies in Indonesia.

UI  - 22554092
TI  - Artemether-lumefantrine to treat malaria in pregnancy is associated with reduced placental haemozoin deposition compared to quinine in a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - http://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT00495508.

UI  - 22554024
TI  - Multiple treatment comparisons in a series of anti-malarial trials with an ordinal primary outcome and repeated treatment evaluations.
AB  - Bayesian mixed treatment comparisons of a network of connected randomized trials with repeated measurements of the primary categorical outcome allowed to take into account both the individual- and between- studies sources of heterogeneity. The results of the present study complete the previous quantitative review based on a binary outcome at a fixed time point, suggesting that DHPP represents an alternative for the treatment of uncomplicated P. falciparum malaria in Cameroonian children.

UI  - 22546009
TI  - Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency, chlorproguanil-dapsone with artesunate and post-treatment haemolysis in African children treated for uncomplicated malaria.
AB  - The use of CDA for treating uncomplicated malaria may increase the risk of haemolytic anaemia in G6PD-deficient children.

UI  - 22540954
TI  - Pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of intravenous artesunate during severe malaria treatment in Ugandan adults.
AB  - Plasma concentrations of artesunate and dihydroartemisinin were achieved rapidly with rapid and complete symptom resolution and parasite clearance with no adverse events.

UI  - 22538476
TI  - Antimalarial efficacy of a quantified extract of Nauclea pobeguinii stem bark in human adult volunteers with diagnosed uncomplicated falciparum malaria. Part 2: a clinical phase IIB trial.
AB  - According to the promising results of the Phase I and Phase IIA clinical trials with the herbal medicinal product PR 259 CT1 consisting of an 80 % ethanolic extract of the stem bark of Nauclea pobeguinii containing 5.6 % strictosamide, a Phase IIB study was conducted as a single blind prospective trial in 65 patients with proven Plasmodium falciparum malaria to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of this herbal drug. The study was carried out simultaneously using an artesunate-amodiaquine combination (Coarsucam) as a positive control. This combination is the standard first-line treatment for uncomplicated malaria recommended by the National Programme of Malaria Control in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DR Congo). With regard to PR 259 CT1, patients were treated with a drug regimen of two 500-mg capsules three times daily for three days in the inpatient clinic, followed by out-patient treatment of one 500-mg capsule three times daily during the next four days; the positive control group received two tablets containing 100 mg artesunate and 270 mg amodiaquine (fixed-dose) once daily during three consecutive days. Antimalarial responses were evaluated according to the WHO 2003 guideline for a 14-day test. The results from the physical and laboratory examinations did not show any significant changes in values of vital signs, ECG, biochemical, and haematological parameters. The study showed a significant decreased parasitaemia in patients treated with PR 29 CT1 and artesunate-amodiaquine with adequate clinical parasitological responses (APCR) at day 14 of 87.9 and 96.9 %, respectively. The former product was better tolerated than the latter since more side effects were observed for the artesunate-amodiaquine combination. These results indicated that PR 259 CT1 can be considered as a promising candidate for the development of a herbal medicine for the treatment of uncomplicated falciparum malaria.

UI  - 22536317
TI  - Performance of local light microscopy and the ParaScreen Pan/Pf rapid diagnostic test to detect malaria in health centers in Northwest Ethiopia.
AB  - Health center microscopists performed well in nine of the ten health centers; while for ParaScreen RDT they performed well in only six centers. Overall the accuracy of local microscopy exceeded that of RDT for all outcomes. This study supports the introduction of RDTs only if accompanied by appropriate training, frequent supervision and quality control at all levels. Deficiencies in RDT use at some health centers must be rectified before universal replacement of good routine microscopy with RDTs. Maintenance and strengthening of good quality microscopy remains a priority at health center level.

UI  - 22532802
TI  - Induction of strain-transcending antibodies against Group A PfEMP1 surface antigens from virulent malaria parasites.
AB  - Sequence diversity in pathogen antigens is an obstacle to the development of interventions against many infectious diseases. In malaria caused by Plasmodium falciparum, the PfEMP1 family of variant surface antigens encoded by var genes are adhesion molecules that play a pivotal role in malaria pathogenesis and clinical disease. PfEMP1 is a major target of protective immunity, however, development of drugs or vaccines based on PfEMP1 is problematic due to extensive sequence diversity within the PfEMP1 family. Here we identified the PfEMP1 variants transcribed by P. falciparum strains selected for a virulence-associated adhesion phenotype (IgM-positive rosetting). The parasites transcribed a subset of Group A PfEMP1 variants characterised by an unusual PfEMP1 architecture and a distinct N-terminal domain (either DBL1.5 or DBL1.8 type). Antibodies raised in rabbits against the N-terminal domains showed functional activity (surface reactivity with live infected erythrocytes (IEs), rosette inhibition and induction of phagocytosis of IEs) down to low concentrations (<10 g/ml of total IgG) against homologous parasites. Furthermore, the antibodies showed broad cross-reactivity against heterologous parasite strains with the same rosetting phenotype, including clinical isolates from four sub-Saharan African countries that showed surface reactivity with either DBL1.5 antibodies (variant HB3var6) or DBL1.8 antibodies (variant TM284var1). These data show that parasites with a virulence-associated adhesion phenotype share IE surface epitopes that can be targeted by strain-transcending antibodies to PfEMP1. The existence of shared surface epitopes amongst functionally similar disease-associated P. falciparum parasite isolates suggests that development of therapeutic interventions to prevent severe malaria is a realistic goal.

UI  - 22531678
TI  - Distinguishing malaria and influenza: early clinical features in controlled human experimental infection studies.
AB  - During the H1N1 influenza pandemic (pH1N1/09) diagnostic algorithms were developed to guide antiviral provision. However febrile illnesses are notoriously difficult to distinguish clinically. Recent evidence highlights the importance of incorporating travel history into diagnostic algorithms to prevent the catastrophic misdiagnosis of life-threatening infections such as malaria. We applied retrospectively the UK pH1N1/09 case definition to a unique cohort of healthy adult volunteers exposed to Plasmodium falciparum malaria or influenza to assess the predictive value of this case definition, and to explore the distinguishing clinical features of early phase infection with these pathogens under experimental conditions. For influenza exposure the positive predictive value of the pH1N1/09 case definition was only 0.38 (95% CI: 0.06-0.60), with a negative predictive value of 0.27 (95% CI: 0.02-0.51). Interestingly, 8/11 symptomatic malaria-infected adults would have been inappropriately classified with influenza by the pH1N1/09 case definition, while 5/8 symptomatic influenza-exposed volunteers would have been classified without influenza (P=0.18 Fisher's exact). Cough (P=0.005) and nasal symptoms (P=0.001) were the only clinical features that distinguished influenza-exposed from malaria-exposed volunteers. An open mind regarding the clinical cause of undifferentiated febrile illness, particularly in the absence of upper respiratory tract symptoms, remains important even during influenza pandemic settings. These data support incorporating travel history into pandemic algorithms.

UI  - 22523591
TI  - Risk factors and characterization of Plasmodium vivax-associated admissions to pediatric intensive care units in the Brazilian Amazon.
AB  - Our study points to the importance of P. vivax-associated severe disease in children, causing 72.5% of the malaria admissions to pediatric ICUs. WHO severity criteria demonstrated good sensitivity in predicting severe P. vivax infection in this small case series.

UI  - 22519853
TI  - Long-term effects of malaria prevention with insecticide-treated mosquito nets on morbidity and mortality in African children: randomised controlled trial.
AB  - Insecticide-treated mosquito net protection in early infancy is not a risk factor for mortality. Individual ITN protection does not sufficiently reduce malaria prevalence in high-transmission areas. Achieving universal ITN coverage remains a major challenge for malaria prevention in Africa.

UI  - 22515681
TI  - Prospective evaluation of artemether-lumefantrine for the treatment of non-falciparum and mixed-species malaria in Gabon.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT00725777.

UI  - 22514730
TI  - Consequences of gestational malaria on birth weight: finding the best timeframe for intermittent preventive treatment administration.
AB  - To investigate the consequences of intermittent preventive treatment (IPTp) timing on birth weight, we pooled data from two studies conducted in Benin between 2005 and 2010: a prospective cohort of 1037 pregnant women and a randomised trial comparing sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine (SP) to mefloquine in 1601 women. A total of 1439 women (752 in the cohort and 687 in the SP arm of the randomised trial) who delivered live singletons were analysed. We showed that an early intake of the first SP dose (4 months of gestation) was associated with a lower risk of LBW compared to a late intake (6-7 months of gestation) (aOR = 0.5 p = 0.01). We also found a borderline increased risk of placental infection when the first SP dose was administered early in pregnancy (aOR = 1.7 p = 0.1). This study is the first to investigate the timing of SP administration during pregnancy. We clearly demonstrated that women who had an early intake of the first SP dose were less at risk of LBW compared to those who had a late intake. Pregnant women should be encouraged to attend antenatal visits early to get their first SP dose and a third dose of SP could be recommended to cover the whole duration of pregnancy and to avoid late infections of the placenta.

UI  - 22509297
TI  - The frequency of malaria is similar among women receiving either lopinavir/ritonavir or nevirapine-based antiretroviral treatment.
AB  - HIV protease inhibitors (PIs) show antimalarial activity in vitro and in animals. Whether this translates into a clinical benefit in HIV-infected patients residing in malaria-endemic regions is unknown. We studied the incidence of malaria, as defined by blood smear positivity or a positive Plasmodium falciparum histidine-rich protein 2 antigen test, among 444 HIV-infected women initiating antiretroviral treatment (ART) in the OCTANE trial (A5208; ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT00089505). Participants were randomized to treatment with PI-containing vs. PI-sparing ART, and were followed prospectively for 48 weeks; 73% also received cotrimoxazole prophylaxis. PI-containing treatment was not associated with protection against malaria in this study population.

UI  - 22492366
TI  - Selling Sprinkles micronutrient powder reduces anemia, iron deficiency, and vitamin A deficiency in young children in Western Kenya: a cluster-randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Even with relatively low and infrequent use, Sprinkles MNP sales through community vendors were associated with decreased rates of anemia and iron and vitamin A deficiency in children in a resource-poor setting. This trial was registered at clinicaltrials.gov as NCT01088958.

UI  - 22484134
TI  - Emergence of artemisinin-resistant malaria on the western border of Thailand: a longitudinal study.
AB  - The Wellcome Trust and National Institutes of Health.

UI  - 22479155
TI  - Intermittent preventive treatment for malaria in Papua New Guinean infants exposed to Plasmodium falciparum and P. vivax: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - IPTi using a long half-life drug combination is efficacious for the prevention of malaria and anemia in infants living in a region highly endemic for both Pf and Pv.

UI  - 22475593
TI  - Pyronaridine-artesunate versus mefloquine plus artesunate for malaria.
AB  - Fixed-dose pyronaridine-artesunate was efficacious in the treatment of uncomplicated P. falciparum malaria. In Cambodia, extended parasite clearance times were suggestive of in vivo resistance to artemisinin. (Funded by Shin Poong Pharmaceutical Company and the Medicines for Malaria Venture; ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00403260.).

UI  - 22470119
TI  - Pharmacokinetic comparison of two piperaquine-containing artemisinin combination therapies in Papua New Guinean children with uncomplicated malaria.
AB  - Pharmacokinetic differences between piperaquine (PQ) base and PQ tetraphosphate were investigated in 34 Papua New Guinean children aged 5 to 10 years treated for uncomplicated malaria with artemisinin-PQ (ART-PQ) base or dihydroartemisinin-PQ (DHA-PQ) tetraphosphate. Twelve children received ART-PQ base (two daily doses of 3 mg of ART and 18 mg of PQ base as granules/kg of body weight) as recommended by the manufacturer, with regular clinical assessment and blood sampling over 56 days. PQ concentrations in plasma samples collected from 22 children of similar ages with malaria in a previously published pharmacokinetic study of DHA-PQ tetraphosphate (three daily doses of 2.5 mg of ART and 20 mg of PQ tetraphosphate as tablets/kg of body weight) were available for comparison. The disposition of ART was also assessed in the 12 children who received ART-PQ base. Plasma PQ was assayed by high-performance liquid chromatography with UV detection, and ART was assayed using liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. Multicompartment pharmacokinetic models for PQ and ART were developed using a population-based approach. ART-PQ base was well tolerated, and initial fever abatement and parasite clearance were prompt. There were no differences between the two treatments in the values for the PQ area under the concentration-time curve from time zero to infinity (AUC(0-)), with medians of 49,451 (n = 12) and 44,556 (n = 22) g  h/liter for ART-PQ base and DHA-PQ tetraphosphate, respectively. Recurrent parasitemia was associated with lower PQ exposure. Using a two-compartment ART model, the median AUC(0-) was 1,652 g  h/liter. There was evidence of autoinduction of ART metabolism (relative bioavailability for the second dose, 0.27). These and previously published data suggest that a 3-day ART-PQ base regimen should be further evaluated, in line with World Health Organization recommendations for all artemisinin combination therapies.

UI  - 22464796
TI  - Action plan to regain unnecessary deferred blood donors due to malaria risk in Turkey.
AB  - Malaria was expected to be a major problem during blood donation in Turkey due to existence of malaria cases in southeastern region of Turkey. The present study aimed for the first time, to investigate malaria in "donors deferred for malaria risk" and to determine the regional rates of malaria deferral in Turkey. Blood samples were collected from several Blood Banks of southeastern provinces where local malaria cases still exist and from Blood Bank of Ege University Medical School (EUMS) located in western Turkey where malaria is eradicated decades ago. Plasmodium spp. and specific antibodies were investigated by stained smears, antigen detection, PCR and ELISA. Among the donors deferred for malaria risk, Plasmodium spp. were not detected by microscopy, PCR or antigen detection. Seroprevalances were 2% and 3.92% in western and southeastern regions, respectively. Rate of donor deferral for malaria risk was 0.9% in EUMS and deferrals were exclusively because of travel to southeastern Turkey. In southeastern provinces, deferrals were mainly due to malaria like fever history. The present study first time assessed regional rates of donor deferral due to malaria risk in Turkey. Previously, malaria was expected to be a major problem during blood donation in Turkey due to existence of malaria cases in southeastern region of Turkey. The results of the study showed that 97% of the deferrals were unnecessary. In conclusion, to reduce unnecessary donor deferrals in Turkey, in addition to comprehensive questioning for malaria history, the usage of a malaria antibody screening method should be initiated prior to deferral decision.

UI  - 22463488
TI  - The effect of household heads training on long-lasting insecticide-treated bed nets utilization: a cluster randomized controlled trial in Ethiopia.
AB  - Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry (ACTR number: ACTRN12610000035022).

UI  - 22458860
TI  - Artesunate-amodiaquine fixed dose combination for the treatment of Plasmodium falciparum malaria in India.
AB  - ISRCTN84408319.

UI  - 22457274
TI  - HIV infection and the incidence of malaria among HIV-exposed children from Tanzania.
AB  - HIV infection is a risk factor for the development of malaria. Proactive malaria disease prevention and treatment is warranted for all children, particularly those with HIV infection in settings of coendemicity.

UI  - 22443344
TI  - Management of uncomplicated malaria in febrile under five-year-old children by community health workers in Madagascar: reliability of malaria rapid diagnostic tests.
AB  - Introduction of easy-to-use diagnostic tools, such as RDTs, at the community level appears to be an effective strategy for improving febrile patient management and for reducing excessive use of anti-malarial drugs.

UI  - 22433778
TI  - An analysis of timing and frequency of malaria infection during pregnancy in relation to the risk of low birth weight, anaemia and perinatal mortality in Burkina Faso.
AB  - Malaria infection during first trimester of pregnancy is associated to a higher risk of low birth weight. Women should be encouraged to use long-lasting insecticidal nets before and throughout their pregnancy.

UI  - 22430959
TI  - Inadequate efficacy of a new formulation of fosmidomycin-clindamycin combination in Mozambican children less than three years old with uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria.
AB  - The combination of fosmidomycin and clindamycin (F/C) is effective in adults and older children for the treatment of malaria and could be an important alternative to existing artemisinin-based combinations (ACTs) if proven to work in younger children. We conducted an open-label clinical trial to assess the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of F/C for the treatment of uncomplicated P. falciparum malaria in Mozambican children <3 years of age. Aqueous solutions of the drugs were given for 3 days, and the children were followed up for 28 days. The primary outcome was the PCR-corrected adequate clinical and parasitological response at day 28. Secondary outcomes included day 7 and 28 uncorrected cure rates and fever (FCT) and parasite (PCT) clearance times. Fifty-two children were recruited, but only 37 patients were evaluable for the primary outcome. Day 7 cure rates were high (94.6%; 35/37), but the day 28 PCR-corrected cure rate was 45.9% (17/37). The FCT was short (median, 12 h), but the PCT was longer (median, 72 h) than in previous studies. Tolerability was good, and most common adverse events were related to the recurrence of malaria. The poor efficacy observed for the F/C combination may be a consequence of the new formulations used, differential bioavailability in younger children, naturally occurring variations in parasite sensitivity to the drugs, or an insufficient enhancement of their effects by naturally acquired immunity in young children. Additional studies should be conducted to respond to the many uncertainties arising from this trial, which should not discourage further evaluation of this promising combination.

UI  - 22423611
TI  - The implementation of malaria intermittent preventive trialtreatment with sulphadoxine-pyrimethamine in infants reduced all-cause mortality in the district of Kolokani, Mali: results from a cluster randomized control.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.govNCT00766662.

UI  - 22423133
TI  - HIV-infected ugandan adults taking antiretroviral therapy with CD4 counts >200 cells/L who discontinue cotrimoxazole prophylaxis have increased risk of malaria and diarrhea.
AB  - HIV-infected adults on ART with CD4 counts >200 cells/L who live in a malaria-endemic area of sub-Saharan Africa and who abruptly discontinue cotrimoxazole prophylaxis have an increased incidence of malaria and diarrhea compared with those who continue prophylaxis. Clinical Trials Registration. NCT00119093.

UI  - 22412865
TI  - The role of age and exposure to Plasmodium falciparum in the rate of acquisition of naturally acquired immunity: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00231452.

UI  - 22412067
TI  - Predicting the clinical outcome of severe falciparum malaria in african children: findings from a large randomized trial.
AB  - Acidosis, cerebral involvement, renal impairment, and chronic illness are key independent predictors for a poor outcome in African children with severe malaria. Mortality is markedly increased in cerebral malaria combined with acidosis. Clinical Trial Registration.ISRCTN50258054.

UI  - 22403308
TI  - No evidence for spread of Plasmodium falciparum artemisinin resistance to Savannakhet Province, Southern Laos.
AB  - We conducted an open-label, randomized clinical trial to assess parasite clearance times (PCT) and the efficacy of 4 mg/kg (group 1, n = 22) and 2 mg/kg (group 2, n = 22) of oral artesunate for three days followed by artemether-lumefantrine in patients with uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria at Xepon Interdistrict Hospital, Savannakhet Province in southern Laos. Slides were read in duplicate. The overall mean (95% confidence interval; range) PCT in hours was 23.2 (21.2-25.3; 12-46) and 22.4 (20.3-24.5; 12-46) for the first and second microscopists, respectively (P = 0.57). Ten (23%) patients remained parasitemic on day 1 after treatment (4 [18%] in group 1 and 6 [27%] in group 2; P = 0.47). No patient had patent asexual parasitemia on the second and third days of treatment. The 42-day polymerase chain reaction-corrected cure rates were 100% in both treatment groups. Serious adverse events did not develop during or after treatment in any patients. In conclusion, no evidence of P. falciparum in vivo resistance to artesunate was found in southern Laos.

UI  - 22403306
TI  - Efficacy of artemether-lumefantrine in area of high malaria endemicity in India and its correlation with blood concentration of lumefantrine.
AB  - This study was conducted to correlate blood concentrations of lumefantrine with treatment outcome for patients with Plasmodium falciparum malaria when the drug was given without specific instructions for administration with food. Patients with P. falciparum malaria in the highly endemic state of Orissa, India, were enrolled during 2008 and followed-up for 28 days after admistration of artemether-lumefantrine for three days according to a World Health Organization protocol. Drug concentration in whole blood was determined by using blood spots placed on filter paper on day 7. The technology is suitable for field studies. One hundred percent of the patients had an adequate clinical and parasitological response. These results confirm the efficacy of artemether-lumefantrine in persons from poor tribal communities when given without specific instructions regarding co-administration with food, despite high inter-individual variability in blood concentrations of lumefantrine.

UI  - 22363582
TI  - Phase Ia clinical evaluation of the safety and immunogenicity of the Plasmodium falciparum blood-stage antigen AMA1 in ChAd63 and MVA vaccine vectors.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT01095055.

UI  - 22352722
TI  - Transfer of 4-hydroxynonenal from parasitized to non-parasitized erythrocytes in rosettes. Proposed role in severe malaria anemia.
AB  - Severe anaemia is a life-threatening complication of falciparum malaria associated with loss of predominantly non-parasitized red blood cells (npRBCs). This poorly elucidated process might be influenced by (i) rosettes, i.e. npRBCs cytoadherent to haemozoin-containing parasitized RBCs (pRBCs) and (ii) generation in pRBCs of 4-hydroxynonenal (4-HNE) through haemozoin-catalysed lipid peroxidation. We explored whether close proximity in rosettes may facilitate 4-HNE transfer to npRBCs, which is likely to enhance their phagocytosis and contribute to malaria anaemia. Fluorescence microscopy and flow cytometry data indicated 4-HNE transfer to npRBCs in rosettes. Rosettes were formed by 64818% varO-expressing pRBCs, and 8711% npRBCs were positive for 4-HNE-protein-conjugates, while low-rosetting parasites generated only 2411% 4-HNE-conjugate-positive npRBCs. 4-HNE transfer decreased after blocking rosetting by monoclonal antibodies. A positive linear relationship between rosette frequency and 4-HNE-conjugates in npRBCs was found in 40 malaria patients, a first indication for a role of rosetting in npRBCs modifications in vivo. Children with severe malaria anaemia had significantly higher percentages of 4-HNE-conjugate-positive npRBCs compared to children with uncomplicated malaria. In conclusion, 4-HNE transfer from pRBCs to npRBCs in rosettes is suggested to play a role in the phagocytic removal of large numbers of npRBCs, the hallmark of severe malaria anaemia.

UI  - 22328063
TI  - [A randomized clinical trial comparing the effectiveness and tolerability of artemisinine-naphthoquine (Arco) and artemether-lumefantrine (Coartem) in the treatment of uncomplicated malaria in Benin].
AB  - The Ministry of Health recommended in Benin, since 2004, artemisinin-based combination, artemether-lumtefantrine (Coartem), therapy for the treatment of uncomplicated malaria. To resolve the difficulties related to observance, we are interested in a new combination, artemisinin-naphthoquine (Arco). A study was conducted to assess and compare the efficacy and tolerability of the fixed combination artemisinin (125 mg)-naphthoquine (50 mg), a single-dose drug, administered one day versus artemether (20 mg)-lumefantrine (120 mg).The clinical assessment was a single-blinded, two-arm, randomized trial comparing Arco combination as a single-dose regimen and three-day regimen of Coartem for the treatment of uncomplicated falciparum malaria, from july to october 2008 and may to september 2009, with 28 days of follow-up in children. PCR genotyping was used to classify re-infection or recrudescence. The primary outcome measures for efficacy were cure rates on days 3, 7, 14, 21 and 28. Secondary outcomes included parasite clearance time and fever clearance time. The main outcome measures for safety were incidences of post-treatment clinical and laboratory adverse events. A total of 174 patients (84 in Arco group and 90 in Coartem group) were evaluated for clinical and parasitological outcomes. The cure rate was 98.8% for Arco and 100% for Coartem on day 28, with no statistically significant difference. Fever clearance was obtained within 24 hours in both groups. The parasite clearance is obtained at 48 hours in Arco group and at 60 hours in Coartem group. Both treatments were well tolerated without major side effects. This study therefore concluded that the combination of artemisinin-naphthoquine is as effective and well tolerated as the combination artemether-lumefantrine in the treatment of uncomplicated malaria in Benin children. This medication administered in single dose is therapy of choice to reduce compliance problems during malaria treatment and also to facilitate community-based care of malaria.

UI  - 22327223
TI  - Evidence for both innate and acquired mechanisms of protection from Plasmodium falciparum in children with sickle cell trait.
AB  - Sickle cell trait (HbAS) is known to be protective against Plasmodium falciparum malaria, but it is unclear when during the course of infection this protection occurs and whether protection is innate or acquired. To address these questions, a cohort of 601 children 1-10 years of age were enrolled in Kampala, Uganda, and followed for 18 months for symptomatic malaria and asymptomatic parasitemia. Genotyping was used to detect and follow individual parasite clones longitudinally within subjects. Children with HbAS were protected against the establishment of parasitemia, as assessed by the molecular force of infection at older but not younger ages (at 2 years of age: incidence rate ratio [IRR] = 1.16; 95% confidence interval [95% CI], 0.62-2.19; P = .6; at 9 years of age: IRR = 0.50; 95% CI, 0.28-0.87; P = .01), suggesting an acquired mechanism of protection. Once parasitemic, children with HbAS were less likely to progress to symptomatic malaria, with protection again being the most pronounced at older ages (at 2 years of age: relative risk [RR] = 0.92; 95% CI, 0.77-1.10; P = .3; at 9 years of age: RR = 0.68; 95% CI, 0.51-0.91; P = .008). Conversely, the youngest children were best protected against high parasite density (at 2 years of age: relative density = 0.24; 95% CI, 0.10-0.54; P = .001; at 9 years of age: relative density = 0.59; 95% CI, 0.30-1.19; P = .14), suggesting an innate mechanism of protection against this end point.

UI  - 22325819
TI  - Evaluation of the effectiveness and compliance of intermittent preventive treatment (IPT) in the control of malaria in pregnant women in south eastern Nigeria.
AB  - Controlling malaria in pregnancy has been an important component of the millennium development goal and intermittent preventive treatment (IPT) is considered an important tool in controlling malaria among pregnant women. In this study, we evaluated the level of compliance to IPT use as well as its effect on malaria infection among pregnant women attending antenatal clinic in south eastern Nigeria. Peripheral blood smears and placental histology were used as diagnostic tools to determine infection rate. Our data show that compliance to IPT use was poor (33%) when compared with non-compliance (67%). Infection rate was significantly lower among IPT users (39%) than in non-users (71%) (X(2) = 3995; P<005). Maternal anaemia was also lower in IPT users (4%) than in non-users (18%). Taken together, IPT use appears to be important in reducing infection rate and maternal anaemia. Therefore, its adoption is highly recommended and this could be improved through public enlightenment campaign and adequate funding.

UI  - 22322791
TI  - [Efficacy of artemether-lumefantrine in the treatment of uncomplicated malaria in children living in a rural area of Burkina Faso in 2009].
AB  - In order to implement community case management of malaria strategy in a rural area of intense transmission, of children using artemether-lumefantrine combination, we assessed the therapeutic efficacy of the medicine. We conducted an open label and uncontrolled clinical trial in an unique centre from September 2009 to December 2009 in children 6-59 months old who consulted at health facilities for uncomplicated malaria. The primary endpoint was clinical and parasitological cure rate at day 28 corrected by PCR. In total 106 children were enrolled. Parasite clearance at day 2 was 99.04% and the adequate clinical and parasitological response corrected by PCR at day 28 was 90.5%. Our results confirm that artemether-lumefantrine combination is still effective.

UI  - 22316571
TI  - Lopinavir/ritonavir significantly influences pharmacokinetic exposure of artemether/lumefantrine in HIV-infected Ugandan adults.
AB  - Co-administration of artemether/lumefantrine with lopinavir/ritonavir significantly increases lumefantrine exposure, but decreases artemether exposure. Population pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic trials will be highly valuable in evaluating the clinical significance of this interaction and determining whether dosage modifications are indicated.

UI  - 22315875
TI  - A phase III clinical trial of alpha, beta-arteether injection 150 mg/ml in patients of P falciparum malaria.
AB  - The aim of study was to evaluate efficacy and safety of alpha, beta-arteether injection 150 mg/ml by performing a phase III, multicentre, open label, and single treatment study in patients with P falciparum malaria. A total of 145 patients with P falciparum malaria were screened to achieve patient pool of 101 subjects based on inclusion and exclusion criteria, from which 100 patients completed the study successfully. Mean cure rate was calculated as primary efficacy parameter, while mean parasite clearance time (hours) and mean fever clearance time (hours) were calculated as secondary efficacy parameters, to evaluate efficacy of alpha, beta-arteether injection 150 mg/ml. Safety evaluation was measured by observing and monitoring adverse events, clinical examination, assessment of vitals and haematology laboratory parameters. Statistical analysis was performed with 5% level of significance. Mean cure rate, mean parasite clearance time (hours) and mean fever clearance time (hours) were 99.01%, 24.72 +/- 0.41 hours and 46.86 +/- 0.97 hours respectively. A total of 6 patients were observed with pain at injection site out of 101 enrolled patients. There were no clinically significant vitals and haematology changes. There were no abnormal posttreatment values observed. The study confirmed that alpha, gamma-arteether injection 150 mg/ml is highly effective in treatment of P falciparum malaria.

UI  - 22314538
TI  - Comparative efficacies of artemisinin combination therapies in Plasmodium falciparum malaria and polymorphism of pfATPase6, pfcrt, pfdhfr, and pfdhps genes in tea gardens of Jalpaiguri District, India.
AB  - In India, chloroquine has been replaced by a combination of artesunate and sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine (AS-SP) for uncomplicated P. falciparum malaria. Other available combinations, artemether-lumefantrine (AM-LF) and artesunate-mefloquine (AS-MQ), not included in the national program, are widely used by private practitioners. Little is known about the therapeutic efficacy of these artemisinin combinations and the prevalence of molecular markers associated with antimalarial drug resistance. A total of 157 patients with P. falciparum monoinfection were recruited and randomized into three study groups (AS-SP, AM-LF, and AS-MQ). All patients were followed up for 42 days to study the clinical and parasitological responses according to the WHO protocol (2009). We assessed the polymorphism of the pfATPase6, pfcrt, pfdhfr, and pfdhps genes by the DNA-sequencing method. The PCR-corrected therapeutic efficacies of AS-SP, AM-LF, and AS-MQ were 90.6% (95% confidence interval [CI], 0.793 to 0.969), 95.9% (95% CI, 0.860 to 0.995), and 100% (95% CI, 0.927 to 1.00), respectively. No specific mutational pattern was observed in the pfATPase6 gene. All isolates had a K76T mutation in the pfcrt gene. In the pfdhfr-pfdhps genotype, quadruple mutation was frequent, and quintuple mutation was documented in 6.3% of P. falciparum isolates. The significant failure rate of AS-SP (9.5%), although within the limit (10%) for drug policy change, was due to SP failure because of prevailing mutations in pfdhfr, I(51)R(59)N(108), with pfdhps, G(437) and/or E(540). The efficacy of this ACT needs periodic monitoring. Artemether-lumefantrine and artesunate-mefloquine are effective alternatives to the artesunate-sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine combination.

UI  - 22303437
TI  - Defining Plasmodium falciparum treatment in South West Asia: a randomized trial comparing artesunate or primaquine combined with chloroquine or SP.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00959517.

UI  - 22280502
TI  - Intermittent preventive treatment with sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine does not modify plasma cytokines and chemokines or intracellular cytokine responses to Plasmodium falciparum in Mozambican children.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT00209795.

UI  - 22275401
TI  - Clinical assessment of a recombinant simian adenovirus ChAd63: a potent new vaccine vector.
AB  - NCT00890019.

UI  - 22269037
TI  - Early experiences on the feasibility, acceptability, and use of malaria rapid diagnostic tests at peripheral health centres in Uganda-insights into some barriers and facilitators.
AB  - mRDTs were found to be acceptable to and used by the target users, provided clear policy guidelines exist, ancillary tools are easy to use and health supplies beyond the diagnostic tools are met. Based on our results, health workers' needs for comprehensive case management should be met, and specific guidance for managing febrile patients with negative test outcomes should be provided alongside the new health technology. The extent, to which the implementation process of mRDT-led, parasite-based diagnosis accommodates end user beliefs, attitudes, perceptions, and satisfaction, as well as technology learnability and suitability, influences the level of acceptance and use of mRDTs. The effectiveness of the health system in providing the enabling environment and the integration of the diagnostic tool into routine service delivery is critical.

UI  - 22258469
TI  - Population pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of piperaquine in children with uncomplicated falciparum malaria.
AB  - Dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine is being increasingly used as a first-line artemisinin combination treatment for malaria. The aim of this study was to describe the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties of piperaquine in 236 children with uncomplicated falciparum malaria in Burkina Faso. They received a standard body weight-based oral 3-day fixed-dose dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine regimen. Capillary plasma concentration-time profiles were characterized using nonlinear mixed-effects modeling. The population pharmacokinetics of piperaquine were described accurately by a two-transit-compartment absorption model and a three-compartment distribution model. Body weight was a significant covariate affecting clearance and volume parameters. The individually predicted day 7 capillary plasma concentration of piperaquine was an important predictor (P < 0.0001) of recurrent malaria infection after treatment. Young children (2-5 years of age) received a significantly higher body weight-normalized dose than older children (P = 0.025) but had significantly lower day 7 piperaquine concentrations (P = 0.024) and total piperaquine exposures (P = 0.021), suggesting that an increased dose regimen for young children should be evaluated.

UI  - 22252804
TI  - Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of monthly versus bimonthly dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine chemoprevention in adults at high risk of malaria.
AB  - Intermittent preventive treatment (IPT) is increasingly used to reduce malaria morbidity and mortality in children and pregnant women. The efficacy of IPT depends on the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties of the antimalarial drugs used. Healthy adult male volunteers whose occupation put them at high risk of malaria on the Northwest border of Thailand were randomized to receive a 3-day-treatment dose of dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine monthly (DPm) or every 2 months (DPalt) or an identical placebo with or without fat (6.4 g/dose) over a 9-month period. All volunteers were monitored weekly. One thousand adults were recruited. Dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine was well tolerated. There were 114 episodes of malaria (49 Plasmodium falciparum, 63 P. vivax, and 2 P. ovale). The protective efficacy against all malaria at 36 weeks was 98% (95% confidence interval [CI], 96% to 99%) in the DPm group and 86% (95% CI, 81% to 90%) in the DPalt group (for both, P < 0.0001 compared to the placebo group). As a result, the placebo group also had lower hematocrits during the study (P < 0.0001). Trough plasma piperaquine concentrations were the main determinant of efficacy; no malaria occurred in participants with a trough concentration above 31 ng/ml. Neither plasma piperaquine concentration nor efficacy was influenced by the coadministration of fat. DPm is safe to use and is effective in the prevention of malaria in adult males living in an area where P. vivax and multidrug-resistant P. falciparum malaria are endemic.

UI  - 22245668
TI  - Efficacy of different primaquine-based antimalarial regimens against Plasmodium falciparum gametocytemia.
AB  - This study compared the efficacy against Plasmodium falciparum gametocytes of four regimens: amodiaquine-sulfadoxine/pyrimethamine (AQ-SP) and mefloquine-artesunate (MQ-AS), with and without primaquine (PQ) administered with the second dose of the schizonticide (AQ-SP; AQ-SP-PQ; MQ-AS; MQ-AS-PQ). Efficacy was determined by thick smear on days 1, 4 and 8 after the beginning of treatment. A total of 82 patients (19-23/group) were recruited. After AQ-SP administration, gametocytemia steadily increased until day 8. With AQ-SP-PQ, a marked decline in gametocytemia was detected on days 4 and 8. MQ-AS treatment resulted in reduced gametocytemia on days 4 and 8, and with MQ-AS-PQ it was reduced even further. None of the treatments cleared gametocytemia by day 8. Currently, artemisinin-based combination therapies plus PQ are the recommended treatment option against falciparum malaria; however, further studies are required to optimize the use of PQ. Issues to be addressed include the optimal time of administration, treatment duration, optimal daily and total dose, and day of evaluation of the gametocytocidal effect. In falciparum malaria, the WHO recommends a maximum of 4days of treatment; consequently, an effective regimen must clear asexual parasites and symptoms within this time frame. The same criteria should be taken into account when evaluating the anti-gametocyte activity.

UI  - 22238468
TI  - Reduction of antimalarial antibodies by HIV infection is associated with increased risk of Plasmodium falciparum cord blood infection.
AB  - HIV-associated impairment of antibody responses in pregnant women may contribute to a higher transmission of P. falciparum to their infants.

UI  - 22232457
TI  - Rolling Malaria Indicator Surveys (rMIS): a potential district-level malaria monitoring and evaluation (M&E) tool for program managers.
AB  - Novel malaria monitoring and evaluation (M&E) tools are urgently needed to complement the current "gold standard" Malaria Indicator Surveys (MIS). Rapid up scaling of malaria control efforts is resulting in substantial reductions in malaria burden across sub-Saharan Africa. As transmission goes down, timely, accurate, sub-national, and district level burden estimates are needed to guide increasingly targeted control efforts in remaining hotspot areas. To test a novel district level M&E tool, we have conducted a continuous ("rolling") MIS (rMIS) since May 2010 covering 50 villages in Chikhwawa district in southern Malawi, essentially adapting an existing cross-sectional evaluation tool into a continuous monitoring tool. Here, we report on our experience after completing the first full year of monthly data collection focusing on the methods, operational aspects, and estimated costs of rMIS in a programmatic setting. The potential applicability of this promising M&E approach for district-level program managers and control efforts is discussed.

UI  - 22232454
TI  - Randomized, prospective, three-arm study to confirm the auditory safety and efficacy of artemether-lumefantrine in Colombian patients with uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria.
AB  - The safety of artemether-lumefantrine in patients with acute, uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria was investigated prospectively using the auditory brainstem response (ABR) and pure-tone thresholds. Secondary outcomes included polymerase chain reaction-corrected cure rates. Patients were randomly assigned in a 3:1:1 ratio to either artemether-lumefantrine (N = 159), atovaquone-proguanil (N = 53), or artesunate-mefloquine (N = 53). The null hypothesis (primary outcome), claiming that the percentage of patients with a baseline to Day-7 ABR Wave III latency increase of > 0.30 msec is  15% after administration of artemether-lumefantrine, was rejected; 2.6% of patients (95% confidence interval: 0.7-6.6) exceeded 0.30 msec, i.e., significantly below 15% (P < 0.0001). A model-based analysis found no apparent relationship between drug exposure and ABR change. In all three groups, average improvements (2-4 dB) in pure-tone thresholds were observed, and polymerase chain reaction-corrected cure rates were > 95% to Day 42. The results support the continued safe and efficacious use of artemether-lumefantrine in uncomplicated falciparum malaria.

UI  - 22228627
TI  - Hepcidin is the major predictor of erythrocyte iron incorporation in anemic African children.
AB  - Iron supplementation strategies in the developing world remain controversial because of fears of exacerbating prevalent infectious diseases. Understanding the conditions in which iron will be absorbed and incorporated into erythrocytes is therefore important. We studied Gambian children with either postmalarial or nonmalarial anemia, who were given oral iron supplements daily for 30 days. Supplements administered on days 1 and 15 contained the stable iron isotopes (57)Fe and (58)Fe, respectively, and erythrocyte incorporation was measured in blood samples drawn 14 days later. We investigated how the iron-regulatory hormone hepcidin and other inflammatory/iron-related indices, all measured on the day of isotope administration, correlated with erythrocyte iron incorporation. In univariate analyses, hepcidin, ferritin, C-reactive protein, and soluble transferrin receptor (sTfR) strongly predicted incorporation of (57)Fe given on day 1, while hepcidin, ferritin, and sTfR/log ferritin correlated with (58)Fe incorporation. In a final multivariate model, the most consistent predictor of erythrocyte isotope incorporation was hepcidin. We conclude that under conditions of competing signals (anemia, iron deficiency, and infection), hepcidin powerfully controls use of dietary iron. We suggest that low-cost point-of-care hepcidin assays would aid iron supplementation programs in the developing world.

UI  - 22225997
TI  - The effect of household heads training about the use of treated bed nets on the burden of malaria and anaemia in under-five children: a cluster randomized trial in Ethiopia.
AB  - Australia and New Zealand Clinical Trials Register (ANZCTR): ACTRN12610000035022.

UI  - 22225699
TI  - A cost-effectiveness analysis of provider interventions to improve health worker practice in providing treatment for uncomplicated malaria in Cameroon: a study protocol for a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT00981877.

UI  - 22208409
TI  - Cluster-randomized study of intermittent preventive treatment for malaria in infants (IPTi) in southern Tanzania: evaluation of impact on survival.
AB  - The lack of evidence of an effect of IPTi on survival could be a false negative result due to a lack of power or imbalance of unmeasured confounders. Alternatively, there could be no mortality impact of IPTi due to low coverage, late administration, drug resistance, decreased malaria transmission or improvements in vector control and case management. This study raises important questions for programme evaluation design.

UI  - 22198787
TI  - Rapid diagnostic test-based management of malaria: an effectiveness study in Papua New Guinean infants with Plasmodium falciparum and Plasmodium vivax malaria.
AB  - Treatment for malaria based on RDT results is safe and feasible even in infants living in areas with moderate to high endemicity for both P. falciparum and P. vivax infections.

UI  - 22185672
TI  - Plasmodium falciparum population dynamics during the early phase of anti-malarial drug treatment in Tanzanian children with acute uncomplicated malaria.
AB  - PCR analyses from multiple blood samples collected during the early treatment phase revealed a complex picture of parasite sub-populations. This underlines the importance of interpreting PCR-outcomes with caution and suggests that the present use of PCR-adjustment from paired blood samples in anti-malarial drug trials may overestimate assessment of drug efficacy in high transmission areas in Africa.The study is registered at http://www.clinicaltrials.gov with identifier NCT00336375.

UI  - 22182758
TI  - Comparative feasibility of implementing rapid diagnostic test and microscopy for parasitological diagnosis of malaria in Uganda.
AB  - It was more feasible to implement parasite-based diagnosis for malaria using RDT than with microscopy. A high proportion of patients with negative malaria results are still prescribed anti-malarials. There is need to increase access to parasite-based diagnosis where microscopy is used. In order to fully harness the benefits of parasitological confirmation of malaria, it is necessary to reduce the prescription of anti-malarials in negative patients.

UI  - 22180622
TI  - A simplified intravenous artesunate regimen for severe malaria.
AB  - NCT00522132.

UI  - 22176931
TI  - Similar efficacy and safety of artemether-lumefantrine (Coartem) in African infants and children with uncomplicated falciparum malaria across different body weight ranges.
AB  - Efficacy of AL in uncomplicated falciparum malaria is similar across body weight dosing groups as currently recommended in the label with no clinically relevant differences in safety or tolerability. AL dosing based on body weight remains advisable.

UI  - 22174947
TI  - Antibodies against PfEMP1, RIFIN, MSP3 and GLURP are acquired during controlled Plasmodium falciparum malaria infections in nave volunteers.
AB  - Antibodies to polymorphic antigens expressed during the parasites erythrocytic stages are important mediators of protective immunity against P. falciparum malaria. Therefore, polymorphic blood stage antigens like MSP3, EBA-175 and GLURP and variant surface antigens PfEMP1 and RIFIN are considered vaccine candidates. However, to what extent these antibodies to blood stage antigens are acquired during naive individuals' first infections has not been studied in depth. Using plasma samples collected from controlled experimental P. falciparum infections we show that antibodies against variant surface antigens, PfEMP1 and RIFIN as well as MSP3 and GLURP, are acquired during a single short low density P. falciparum infection in non-immune individuals including strain transcendent PfEMP1 immune responses. These data indicate that the immunogenicity of the variant surface antigens is similar to the less diverse merozoite antigens. The acquisition of a broad and strain transcendent repertoire of PfEMP1 antibodies may reflect a parasite strategy of expressing most or all PfEMP1 variants at liver release optimizing the likelihood of survival and establishment of chronic infections in the new host.

UI  - 22172305
TI  - Intermittent preventive therapy for malaria with monthly artemether-lumefantrine for the post-discharge management of severe anaemia in children aged 4-59 months in southern Malawi: a multicentre, randomised, placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - The Netherlands African Partnership for Capacity Development and Clinical Interventions Against Poverty Related Diseases, the UBS-Optimus Foundation, and the Gates Malaria Partnership.

UI  - 22166001
TI  - Impact of combining intermittent preventive treatment with home management of malaria in children less than 10 years in a rural area of Senegal: a cluster randomized trial.
AB  - Combining IPTc and HMM can provide significant additional benefit in preventing clinical episodes of malaria as well as anaemia among children in Senegal.

UI  - 22144890
TI  - Longevity and composition of cellular immune responses following experimental Plasmodium falciparum malaria infection in humans.
AB  - Cellular responses to Plasmodium falciparum parasites, in particular interferon-gamma (IFN) production, play an important role in anti-malarial immunity. However, clinical immunity to malaria develops slowly amongst naturally exposed populations, the dynamics of cellular responses in relation to exposure are difficult to study and data about the persistence of such responses are controversial. Here we assess the longevity and composition of cellular immune responses following experimental malaria infection in human volunteers. We conducted a longitudinal study of cellular immunological responses to sporozoites (PfSpz) and asexual blood-stage (PfRBC) malaria parasites in nave human volunteers undergoing single (n=5) or multiple (n=10) experimental P. falciparum infections under highly controlled conditions. IFN and interleukin-2 (IL-2) responses following in vitro re-stimulation were measured by flow-cytometry prior to, during and more than one year post infection. We show that cellular responses to both PfSpz and PfRBC are induced and remain almost undiminished up to 14 months after even a single malaria episode. Remarkably, not only 'adaptive' but also 'innate' lymphocyte subsets contribute to the increased IFN response, including T cells, T cells and NK cells. Furthermore, results from depletion and autologous recombination experiments of lymphocyte subsets suggest that immunological memory for PfRBC is carried within both the T cells and T compartments. Indeed, the majority of cytokine producing T lymphocytes express an CD45RO(+) CD62L(-) effector memory (EM) phenotype both early and late post infection. Finally, we demonstrate that malaria infection induces and maintains polyfunctional (IFN(+)IL-2(+)) EM responses against both PfRBC and PfSpz, previously found to be associated with protection. These data demonstrate that cellular responses can be readily induced and are long-lived following infection with P. falciparum, with a persisting contribution by not only adaptive but also (semi-)innate lymphocyte subsets. The implications hereof are positive for malaria vaccine development, but focus attention on those factors potentially inhibiting such responses in the field.

UI  - 22144448
TI  - The combination of indoor residual spraying and insecticide-treated nets provides added protection against malaria compared with insecticide-treated nets alone.
AB  - Both insecticide-treated bed nets (ITNs) and indoor residual spraying (IRS) reduce malaria in high malaria transmission areas. The combined effect of these interventions is unknown. We conducted a non-randomized prospective cohort study to determine protective efficacy of IRS with ITNs (ITN + IRS) compared with ITNs alone (ITN only) in preventing Plasmodium falciparum parasitemia. At baseline, participants provided blood samples for malaria smears, were presumptively treated for malaria, and received ITNs. Blood smears were made monthly and at sick visits. In total, 1,804 participants were enrolled. Incidence of P. falciparum parasitemia in the ITN + IRS and ITN only groups was 18 and 44 infections per 100 persons-years at risk, respectively (unadjusted rate ratio = 0.41; 95% confidence interval [CI] = 0.31-0.56). Adjusted protective efficacy of ITN + IRS compared with ITN only was 62% (95% CI = 0.50-0.72). The combination of IRS and ITN might be a feasible strategy to further reduce malaria transmission in areas of persistent perennial malaria transmission.

UI  - 22131908
TI  - Effect of supplementation with zinc and other micronutrients on malaria in Tanzanian children: a randomised trial.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00623857

UI  - 22123685
TI  - HIV-1 protease inhibitors and clinical malaria: a secondary analysis of the AIDS Clinical Trials Group A5208 study.
AB  - HIV-1 protease inhibitors (PIs) have antimalarial activity in vitro and in murine models. The potential beneficial effect of HIV-1 PIs on malaria has not been studied in clinical settings. We used data from Adult AIDS Clinical Trials Group A5208 sites where malaria is endemic to compare the incidence of clinically diagnosed malaria among HIV-infected adult women randomized to either lopinavir/ritonavir (LPV/r)-based antiretroviral therapy (ART) or to nevirapine (NVP)-based ART. We calculated hazard ratios and 95% confidence intervals. We conducted a recurrent events analysis that included both first and second clinical malarial episodes and also conducted analyses to assess the sensitivity of results to outcome misclassification. Among the 445 women in this analysis, 137 (31%) received a clinical diagnosis of malaria at least once during follow-up. Of these 137, 72 (53%) were randomized to LPV/r-based ART. Assignment to the LPV/r treatment group (n = 226) was not consistent with a large decrease in the hazard of first clinical malarial episode (hazard ratio = 1.11 [0.79 to 1.56]). The results were similar in the recurrent events analysis. Sensitivity analyses indicated the results were robust to reasonable levels of outcome misclassification. In this study, the treatment with LPV/r compared to NVP had no apparent beneficial effect on the incidence of clinical malaria among HIV-infected adult women. Additional research concerning the effects of PI-based therapy on the incidence of malaria diagnosed by more specific criteria and among groups at a higher risk for severe disease is warranted.

UI  - 22118026
TI  - The genetic polymorphism of Plasmodium vivax genes in endemic regions of Thailand.
AB  - The multiple genotypes are common found in Thailand and it might hide the real genotype. PvCSP does not have extensive genetic diversity in this study. However, PvMSP1 marker due to multiple genotypes is difficult to be analyzed. The multiple genotypes findings might stem from population migration and vector species findings.

UI  - 22114867
TI  - Use of a pLDH-based dipstick in the diagnostic and therapeutic follow-up of malaria patients in Mali.
AB  - OptiMal-IT test revealed similar results when compared to microscopy which is considered the gold standard for malaria diagnostics. The test was found to have a short processing time and was easier to use. These advantages may improve malaria case management by providing a diagnostic and drug efficacy follow-up tool to peripheral health centres with limited resources.

UI  - 22110624
TI  - Timing of enteral feeding in cerebral malaria in resource-poor settings: a randomized trial.
AB  - Controlled-Trials.com ISRCTN57488577.

UI  - 22102856
TI  - Declining responsiveness of Plasmodium falciparum infections to artemisinin-based combination treatments on the Kenyan coast.
AB  - Controlled-Trials.com ISRCTN88705995.

UI  - 22099005
TI  - Adherence to artemether/lumefantrine treatment in children under real-life situations in rural Tanzania.
AB  - A follow-up study was conducted to determine the magnitude of and factors related to adherence to artemether/lumefantrine (ALu) treatment in rural settings in Tanzania. Children in five villages of Kilosa District treated at health facilities were followed-up at their homes on Day 7 after the first dose of ALu. For those found to be positive using a rapid diagnostic test for malaria and treated with ALu, their caretakers were interviewed on drug administration habits. In addition, capillary blood samples were collected on Day 7 to determine lumefantrine concentrations. The majority of children (392/444; 88.3%) were reported to have received all doses, in time. Non-adherence was due to untimeliness rather than missing doses and was highest for the last two doses. No significant difference was found between blood lumefantrine concentrations among adherent (median 286 nmol/l) and non-adherent [median 261 nmol/l; range 25 nmol/l (limit of quantification) to 9318 nmol/l]. Children from less poor households were more likely to adhere to therapy than the poor [odds ratio (OR)=2.45, 95% CI 1.35-4.45; adjusted OR=2.23, 95% CI 1.20-4.13]. The high reported rate of adherence to ALu in rural areas is encouraging and needs to be preserved to reduce the risk of emergence of resistant strains. The age-based dosage schedule and lack of adherence to ALu treatment guidelines by health facility staff may explain both the huge variability in observed lumefantrine concentrations and the lack of difference in concentrations between the two groups.

UI  - 22096496
TI  - Effect of transmission reduction by insecticide-treated bednets (ITNs) on antimalarial drug resistance in western Kenya.
AB  - Despite the clear public health benefit of insecticide-treated bednets (ITNs), the impact of malaria transmission-reduction by vector control on the spread of drug resistance is not well understood. In the present study, the effect of sustained transmission reduction by ITNs on the prevalence of Plasmodium falciparum gene mutations associated with resistance to the antimalarial drugs sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine (SP) and chloroquine (CQ) in children under the age of five years was investigated during an ITN trial in Asembo area, western Kenya. During the ITN trial, the national first line antimalarial treatment changed from CQ to SP. Smear-positive samples collected from cross sectional surveys prior to ITN introduction (baseline, n=250) and five years post-ITN intervention (year 5 survey, n=242) were genotyped for single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) at dhfr-51, 59, 108, 164 and dhps-437, 540 (SP resistance), and pfcrt-76 and pfmdr1-86 (CQ resistance). The association between the drug resistance mutations and epidemiological variables was evaluated. There were significant increases in the prevalence of SP dhps mutations and the dhfr/dhps quintuple mutant, and a significant reduction in the proportion of mixed infections detected at dhfr-51, 59 and dhps-437, 540 SNPs from baseline to the year 5 survey. There was no change in the high prevalence of pfcrt-76 and pfmdr1-86 mutations. Multivariable regression analysis further showed that current antifolate use and year of survey were significantly associated with more SP drug resistance mutations. These results suggest that increased antifolate drug use due to drug policy change likely led to the high prevalence of SP mutations 5 years post-ITN intervention and reduced transmission had no apparent effect on the existing high prevalence of CQ mutations. There is no evidence from the current study that sustained transmission reduction by ITNs reduces the prevalence of genes associated with malaria drug resistance.

UI  - 22095262
TI  - Antimalarial efficacy of a quantified extract of Nauclea pobeguinii stem bark in human adult volunteers with diagnosed uncomplicated falciparum malaria. Part 1: a clinical phase IIA trial.
AB  - The aim of this phase IIA clinical trial was to assess the efficacy of an 80% ethanolic quantified extract (containing 5.6% strictosamide as the putative active constituent) from Nauclea pobeguinii stem bark denoted as PR 259 CT1 in a small group of adult patients diagnosed with uncomplicated falciparum malaria. Results obtained from a phase I clinical trial on healthy male volunteers indicated that the oral administration during meals of two 500mg capsules three times daily (each eight hours) during seven days was well tolerated and showed only mild and self-resolving adverse effects. This PR 259 CT1 drug regimen was obtained by mathematical conversion of animal doses obtained in several in vivo studies in mice to human equivalent doses as in falciparum malaria patients. The phase IIA study was an open cohort study in eleven appraisable adult patients suffering from proven Plasmodium falciparum malaria. The study was specifically designed to assess the efficacy of PR 259 CT1 administered with a dose regimen of two 500mg capsules three times daily for three days, followed by outpatient treatment of one 500mg capsule three times daily for the next four days, in order to prove that this therapeutic dose, which was calculated from animal doses, was effective to treat adult malaria patients and consequently useful for a future Phase IIB clinical trial. This study would then substitute a dose-escalating trial, which in general is used to find the appropriate dose for clinical studies. The phase IIA clinical trial was carried out according to the WHO 2003 14-day test, and the results revealed that all eleven patients were completely cleared of parasitemia and fever on days 3, 7, and 14 except for one patient, who experienced a recurrence of parasitemia at days 7 until 14. Besides this adequate clinical and parasitological response (ACPR), this trial also demonstrated that PR 259 CT1 was well tolerated with only mild and self-resolving adverse effects including fatigue and headache, which were in accordance with those found in the phase I clinical trial. Moreover, all symptoms progressively disappeared, and no symptoms were observed on day 14. Although the number of patients included in this study was rather limited, the statistical analysis nevertheless suggested the efficacy and tolerability of PR 259 CT1, which indicated that this herbal medicinal product might be considered as a putative candidate for a large scale clinical trial.

UI  - 22093812
TI  - Pilot assessment of supply chains for pharmaceuticals and medical commodities for malaria, tuberculosis and HIV infection in Ethiopia.
AB  - To obtain preliminary data on the drug supply management system in Ethiopia, selected facilities were assessed for the availability of essential drugs and commodities for malaria, TB and HIV. Of the 48 surveyed hospitals and health centers, 9 (19%), 9 (19%) and 10 (21%) did not have malaria, TB or HIV drugs, respectively. Similarly, of 27 health posts, 9 (33%) and 6 (22%) did not have rapid diagnostic tests and antimalarial drugs, respectively. The findings indicated an inadequate availability of essential drugs and commodities in the surveyed facilities as well as weaknesses in human resources and training. Assessments of commodity supply chains to ensure operational program success and impact are important.

UI  - 22087077
TI  - A head-to-head comparison of four artemisinin-based combinations for treating uncomplicated malaria in African children: a randomized trial.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00393679; Pan African Clinical Trials Registry PACTR2009010000911750

UI  - 22073137
TI  - Coverage, adherence and costs of intermittent preventive treatment of malaria in children employing different delivery strategies in Jasikan, Ghana.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00119132.

UI  - 22052893
TI  - Prolonged protection provided by a single dose of atovaquone-proguanil for the chemoprophylaxis of Plasmodium falciparum malaria in a human challenge model.
AB  - Single-dose atovaquone-proguanil provides effective malaria chemoprophylaxis against P. falciparum challenge at dosing intervals supportive of weekly dosing. Postexposure prophylaxis 4 days after challenge was 100% effective.

UI  - 22052702
TI  - A simple dose regimen of artesunate and amodiaquine based on arm span- or age range for childhood falciparum malaria: a preliminary evaluation.
AB  - A dose regimen of artesunate and amodiaquine based on arm span- or age range (DRAAAS), derived from a study of 1674 children, was compared with standard dose regimen of the same drugs calculated according to body weight (SDRAA) in 68 malarious children. Children on DRAAAS received 0.8-1.0 of artesunate/kg and 0.9-1.2 times amodiaquine/kg compared with those receiving SDRAA. Parasite and fever clearance and fall in hematocrit in the first 3 days were similar; both regimens were well tolerated. DRAAAS is simple and is efficacious.

UI  - 23525023
TI  - The correlation of spurious eosinophilia in automated hematological analyzer Sysmex XS-800i with Plasmodium infection diagnosis.
AB  - Peripheral smears of the cases having inconsistent eosinophilia result with that of Sysmex XS-800i analyzer should be examined carefully for the presence of malaria parasites in the red blood cells. Sysmex XS-800i analyzers have moderate range of sensitivity and high degree of specificity in diagnosing malaria as spurious eosinophilia.

UI  - 22022814
TI  - Rectal artesunates, their utilization, and parental perception in the management of malaria in children from Abeokuta, southwestern Nigeria.
AB  - Utilization, efficacy, perception, and acceptability of rectal artesunates for treatment of malaria were assessed in 264 children below 5 years attending two tertiary health facilities in Abeokuta, Nigeria. The children systematically selected were 136 from State Hospital Ijaye and 128 from Federal Medical Centre (FMC), Idi-Aba. Body weights and vital statistics of the children were measured; and blood samples were collected before and 24h after administration of the rectal artesunates (Plasmotrim-50/200mg Artesunate) to evaluate the efficacy of the suppository. The first dose of rectal artesunate suppository was administered at a dose of 5-10mg/kg of body weight per rectum. Giemsa thin and thick films were employed to determine parasite species, malaria parasite count/L (MPC/L), and percentage of parasitized red blood cells (PPRBCs). Data were analyzed using SPSS version 16.0. Plasmodium falciparum was the malaria parasite identified by blood examination, with a pretreatment prevalence of 98.9%. Male children had higher infection rate (55%) than females (45%), and infection among age groups and weight groups varied. Chi-square analysis revealed a significant difference between weight and malaria parasite count (p<0.05). Post-treatment analysis after 24h showed that prevalence dropped by 73%, with females having higher crash rate (77%) than males (69%) but with no statistical difference (p>0.05) among the sexes. Chi-square analysis of pre- and post-treatment revealed a significant difference between MPC/L and PPRBC at p<0.05. This confirmed the efficacy of rectal artesunate in reducing the parasite density (parasitaemia) within 24h of treatment. On acceptability, 99.60% of parents accepted to use the suppository. However, 87.1% of parents preferred its usage, as it is easy to administer with no adverse effects when administered on their children. If health officials increase more public knowledge on the use of rectal artesunates, the high mortality now experienced in children under 5 years due to malaria disease would be greatly reduced.

UI  - 22007715
TI  - First results of phase 3 trial of RTS,S/AS01 malaria vaccine in African children.
AB  - The RTS,S/AS01 vaccine provided protection against both clinical and severe malaria in African children. (Funded by GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals and the PATH Malaria Vaccine Initiative; RTS,S ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00866619 .).

UI  - 22004614
TI  - Cost-effectiveness of intermittent preventive treatment of malaria in infants (IPTi) for averting anaemia in Gabon: a comparison between intention to treat and according to protocol analyses.
AB  - Migration implies great challenges in the organization of health interventions that require repeat visits in Gabon. This was apparent in the study as the cost-effectiveness of IPTp-SP worsened when drop out from the prevention was taken into account. Despite such challenges, IPTi was both inexpensive and efficacious in averting cases of moderate anaemia in infants.

UI  - 22002979
TI  - Dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine versus chloroquine in the treatment of Plasmodium vivax malaria in Thailand: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - The efficacy of CQ in the treatment of P. vivax infections is declining on the Thai-Myanmar border. DP is an effective alternative treatment.

UI  - 21999570
TI  - A simple and fast method to exclude high Plasmodium falciparum parasitaemia in travellers with imported malaria.
AB  - Assessment of HRP-2 and aldolase co-reactivity can be of help in clinical decision making in the acute care setting of returning travellers suspected of having malaria.

UI  - 21998698
TI  - Circumsporozoite-specific T cell responses in children vaccinated with RTS,S/AS01E and protection against P falciparum clinical malaria.
AB  - RTS,S/AS01(E) induces CS-specific Th1 T cell responses in young children living in a malaria endemic area. The combination of anti-CS antibody concentrations titers and CS-specific TNF(+) CD4(+) T cells could account for the level of protection conferred by RTS,S/AS01(E). The correlation between CS-specific TNF(+) CD4(+) T cells and protection needs confirmation in other datasets.

UI  - 21976561
TI  - Hematologic parameters in pediatric uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in sub-Saharan Africa.
AB  - Hematologic changes in acute and convalescent uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria have not been well studied, particularly in young children in Africa. Hematologic data were obtained for 3,044 children less than five years of age in seven randomized controlled trials at 14 sites. Using paired analysis between day 28 and baseline in patients without parasitologic failure as a proxy for malaria-induced effects, we found a statistically significant but clinically modest increase in leukocyte counts (5%) resulting from a larger increase in neutrophils (43%) than the decrease in lymphocytes counts (-16%); levels of hemoglobin and platelets decreased (-13% and -49%, respectively). Multivariate random effects analysis showed trends during follow-up (increased levels of hemoglobin, platelets and lymphocytes, and decreased levels of leukocytes and neutrophils) and identified explanatory variables. The risk of neutropenia increased with follow-up time independent of treatment outcome, and was lower with age, higher baseline parasitemia, and artemisinin combination treatment. These analyses provides information on hematologic variations caused by malaria.

UI  - 21972607
TI  - [Efficacy of compound dihydroartemisinin/piperaquine in treatment of uncomplicated falciparum malaria in Myanmar].
AB  - The compound dihydroartemisinin/piperaquine shows a sound efficacy in treating uncomplicated falciparum malaria

UI  - 21962292
TI  - Efficacy of malaria prevention during pregnancy in an area of low and unstable transmission: an individually-randomised placebo-controlled trial using intermittent preventive treatment and insecticide-treated nets in the Kabale Highlands, southwestern Uganda.
AB  - Intermittent preventive treatment of malaria during pregnancy (IPTp) and insecticide-treated nets (ITN) are recommended malaria interventions during pregnancy; however, there is limited information on their efficacy in areas of low malaria transmission in sub-Saharan Africa. An individually-randomised placebo-controlled trial involving 5775 women of all parities examined the effect of IPTp, ITNs alone, or ITNs used in combination with IPTp on maternal anaemia and low birth weight (LBW) in a highland area of southwestern Uganda. The overall prevalence of malaria infection, maternal anaemia and LBW was 15.0%, 14.7% and 6.5%, respectively. Maternal and fetal outcomes were generally remarkably similar across all intervention groups (P>0.05 for all outcomes examined). A marginal difference in maternal haemoglobin was observed in the dual intervention group (12.57g/dl) compared with the IPTp and ITN alone groups (12.40g/dl and 12.44g/dl, respectively; P=0.04), but this was too slight to be of clinical importance. In conclusion, none of the preventive strategies was found to be superior to the others, and no substantial additional benefit to providing both IPTp and ITNs during routine antenatal services was observed. With ITNs offering a number of advantages over IPTp, yet showing comparable efficacy, we discuss why ITNs could be an appropriate preventive strategy for malaria control during pregnancy in areas of low and unstable transmission.

UI  - 24830201
TI  - [Therapeutic efficacy and safety of compound dihydroartemisinin/piperaquine for uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum infection in Laiza City of Myanmar bordering on China].
AB  - DHAPIP is efficacious and safe for the treatment of uncomplicated falciparum malaria in Laiza city of Myanmar in the border area.

UI  - 21947399
TI  - Interaction between artemether-lumefantrine and nevirapine-based antiretroviral therapy in HIV-1-infected patients.
AB  - Artemether-lumefantrine and nevirapine-based antiretroviral therapy (ART) are the most commonly recommended first-line treatments for malaria and HIV, respectively, in Africa. Artemether, lumefantrine, and nevirapine are metabolized by the cytochrome P450 3A4 enzyme system, which nevirapine induces, creating potential for important drug interactions. In a parallel-design pharmacokinetic study, concentration-time profiles were obtained in two groups of HIV-infected patients: ART-nave patients and those stable on nevirapine-based therapy. Both groups received the recommended artemether-lumefantrine dose. Patients were admitted for intense pharmacokinetic sampling (0 to 72 h) with outpatient sampling until 21 days. Concentrations of lumefantrine, artemether, dihydroartemisinin, and nevirapine were determined by validated liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) methods. The primary outcome was observed day 7 lumefantrine concentrations, as these are associated with therapeutic response in malaria. We enrolled 36 patients (32 females). Median (range) day 7 lumefantrine concentrations were 622 ng/ml (185 to 2,040 ng/ml) and 336 ng/ml (29 to 934 ng/ml) in the nevirapine and ART-nave groups, respectively (P = 0.0002). The median artemether area under the plasma concentration-time curve from 0 to 8 h [AUC((0-8 h))] (P < 0.0001) and dihydroartemisinin AUC((60-68 h)) (P = 0.01) were lower in the nevirapine group. Combined artemether and dihydroartemisinin exposure decreased over time only in the nevirapine group (geometric mean ratio [GMR], 0.76 [95% confidence interval {CI}, 0.65 to 0.90]; P < 0.0001) and increased with the weight-adjusted artemether dose (GMR, 2.12 [95% CI, 1.31 to 3.45]; P = 0.002). Adverse events were similar between groups, with no difference in electrocardiographic Fridericia corrected QT and P-R intervals at the expected time of maximum lumefantrine concentration (T(max)). Nevirapine-based ART decreased artemether and dihydroartemisinin AUCs but unexpectedly increased lumefantrine exposure. The mechanism of the lumefantrine interaction remains to be elucidated. Studies investigating the interaction of nevirapine and artemether-lumefantrine in HIV-infected patients with malaria are urgently needed.

UI  - 21946712
TI  - Evaluation of the impact of ZeroFly, an insecticide incorporated plastic sheeting on malaria incidence in two temporary labour shelters in India.
AB  - Results of the present study revealed that ZeroFly plastic sheeting is highly effective in reducing the indoor resting density of mosquitoes, man -vector contact and malaria incidences in labour populations living in temporary shelters.

UI  - 21936885
TI  - Effects of amodiaquine and artesunate on sulphadoxine-pyrimethamine pharmacokinetic parameters in children under five in Mali.
AB  - Despite slight differences in pyrimethamine volumes of distribution and elimination half-life, these data show similar exposure to SP over the critical initial seven days of treatment and support the current use of SP in combination with either AQ or AS for uncomplicated falciparum malaria treatment in young Malian children.

UI  - 21933376
TI  - Cost analysis of school-based intermittent screening and treatment of malaria in Kenya.
AB  - In the current context, school-based IST is a relatively expensive malaria intervention, but reducing the complexity of delivery can result in considerable savings in the cost of intervention. (Costs are reported in US$ 2010).

UI  - 21925691
TI  - Short term effect of rainfall on suspected malaria episodes at Magaria, Niger: a time series study.
AB  - Epidemiological patterns of malaria are influenced by different kinds of climate. In Sahelian countries, the link between climatic factors and malaria is still insufficiently quantified. The aim of this work was to conduct a time-series study of rainfall to estimate the increased risk of malaria morbidity. Daily suspected malaria episodes among subjects of all ages were collected retrospectively in three health care facilities between 1 January 2000 and 31 December 2003 at Magaria, Niger. These daily numbers were analysed with time-series methods, using generalized additive models with a negative binomial family. The impact of rainfall 40 days before occurrence of suspected malaria episodes was studied using a distributed lag model. More than 13 000 suspected malaria episodes were registered corresponding to an annual cumulative incidence rate of 7.4%. The overall excess risk of suspected malaria episodes for an increase of 1mm of rainfall after 40 days of exposure was estimated at 7.2%. This study allowed to specify the excess risk of rainfall on the occurrence of suspected malaria episodes in an intermediate rainfall area located in the Sahelian region in Niger. It was a first step to a health impact assessment.

UI  - 21921220
TI  - Adherence to treatment with artemether-lumefantrine for uncomplicated malaria in rural Malawi.
AB  - Adherence to AL treatment for uncomplicated malaria was moderate, and children, who are the most likely to die of malaria, were less adherent than adults. Efforts to improve adherence should be focused on this vulnerable group. Interventions including the introduction of child-friendly antimalarial formulations, direct observation of the first dose, use of the AL package as a visual aid for instructions, and enhancing patient preference for AL could potentially increase AL adherence and overall effectiveness.

UI  - 21916638
TI  - A field trial to assess a blood-stage malaria vaccine.
AB  - On the basis of the primary end point, the malaria vaccine did not provide significant protection against clinical malaria, but on the basis of secondary results, it may have strain-specific efficacy. If this finding is confirmed, AMA1 might be useful in a multicomponent malaria vaccine. (Funded by the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases and others; ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00460525.).

UI  - 21903775
TI  - Live attenuated malaria vaccine designed to protect through hepatic CD8 T cell immunity.
AB  - Our goal is to develop a vaccine that sustainably prevents Plasmodium falciparum (Pf) malaria in 80% of recipients. Pf sporozoites (PfSPZ) administered by mosquito bites are the only immunogens shown to induce such protection in humans. Such protection is thought to be mediated by CD8(+) T cells in the liver that secrete interferon- (IFN-). We report that purified irradiated PfSPZ administered to 80 volunteers by needle inoculation in the skin was safe, but suboptimally immunogenic and protective. Animal studies demonstrated that intravenous immunization was critical for inducing a high frequency of PfSPZ-specific CD8(+), IFN--producing T cells in the liver (nonhuman primates, mice) and conferring protection (mice). Our results suggest that intravenous administration of this vaccine will lead to the prevention of infection with Pf malaria.

UI  - 21896825
TI  - Efficacy and effectiveness of mefloquine and artesunate combination therapy for uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in the Peruvian Amazon.
AB  - We evaluated the efficacy and effectiveness of mefloquine (MQ) plus artesunate (AS) to treat patients with uncomplicated malaria in the Peruvian Amazon Basin in April 2005-March 2006. Patients  1 year of age with fever (axillary temperature  37.5C) or history of fever and Plasmodium falciparum monoinfection were included. Patients received antimalarial treatment with MQ (12.5 mg/kg/day for two days) and AS (4.0 mg/kg/day for three days) either by directly observed therapy or without directly observed therapy. After a 28-day follow-up, treatment efficacy and effectiveness were assessed on the basis of clinical and parasitologic outcomes. Ninety-six patients were enrolled in each study group; nine patients were lost to follow-up. All patients, except for one in the observed group, demonstrated adequate clinical and parasitologic response; none had detectable parasitemia on day 3. The efficacy of MQ + AS efficacy was 98.9% (95% confidence interval = 94.1-100.0%) and the effectiveness was 100.0% (95% confidence interval = 95.9-100.0%). Our study shows that MQ + AS is highly efficacious in the Peruvian Amazon.

UI  - 21896093
TI  - Epidemiologic and biogeographic analysis of 542 VFR traveling children in Catalonia (Spain). A rising new population with specific needs.
AB  - VFR traveling children showed a greater risk of exposure to infectious diseases compared with tourists. Immigrant families may represent a target group to prioritize international preventive activities.

UI  - 21890160
TI  - Evaluation of the safety and tolerability of a short higher-dose primaquine regimen for presumptive anti-relapse therapy in healthy subjects.
AB  - The safety and tolerability of primaquine (PQ) administered as a short higher-dose (30mg twice daily for 7 days) regimen in 203 Australian Defence Force personnel was evaluated in an open-label presumptive anti-relapse therapy study. No clinically significant differences were measured in the subjects' haematological and biochemical indices before and after PQ treatment. The most common adverse events were nausea, abdominal pain, headache and insomnia, many of which were mild in severity (30%; 60/203) and transient; 19% of subjects (39/203) experienced moderate (with some interference with daily duties requiring no or minimal medical therapy) adverse events. Two subjects (1%) had severe gastrointestinal adverse events requiring cessation of medication, but neither was seriously ill. Ten subjects (5%) had peripheral cyanosis (blueness of the lips), but none reported any respiratory compromise. These findings suggest that the short higher-dose PQ regimen is safe and well tolerated, which could improve PQ compliance and effectiveness.

UI  - 21887214
TI  - A pilot randomised trial of induced blood-stage Plasmodium falciparum infections in healthy volunteers for testing efficacy of new antimalarial drugs.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT01055002.

UI  - 23120952
TI  - Effectiveness of routine antihelminthic treatment on anaemia in pregnancy in Rufiji District, Tanzania: a cluster randomised controlled trial.
AB  - These findings support WHO's recommendation for anthelmintic treatment during pregnancy. However benefits for deworming may be limited in areas with an antenatal iron supplementation programme or low intensity of hookworm infections and hence future research should be directed towards the cost-effectiveness of the de-worming compared to other interventions for reducing anaemia in pregnancy.

UI  - 21876056
TI  - Population pharmacokinetics of artemether, lumefantrine, and their respective metabolites in Papua New Guinean children with uncomplicated malaria.
AB  - There are sparse published data relating to the pharmacokinetic properties of artemether, lumefantrine, and their active metabolites in children, especially desbutyl-lumefantrine. We studied 13 Papua New Guinean children aged 5 to 10 years with uncomplicated malaria who received the six recommended doses of artemether (1.7 mg/kg of body weight) plus lumefantrine (10 mg/kg), given with fat over 3 days. Intensive blood sampling was carried out over 42 days. Plasma artemether, dihydroartemisinin, lumefantrine, and desbutyl-lumefantrine were assayed using liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry or high-performance liquid chromatography. Multicompartmental pharmacokinetic models for a drug plus its metabolite were developed using a population approach that included plasma artemether and dihydroartemisinin concentrations below the limit of quantitation. Although artemether bioavailability was variable and its clearance increased by 67.8% with each dose, the median areas under the plasma concentration-time curve from 0 h to infinity (AUC(0-)s) for artemether and dihydroartemisinin (3,063 and 2,839 g  h/liter, respectively) were similar to those reported previously in adults with malaria. For lumefantrine, the median AUC(0-) (459,980 g  h/liter) was also similar to that in adults with malaria. These data support the higher dose recommended for children weighing 15 to 35 kg (35% higher than that for a 50-kg adult) but question the recommendation for a lower dose in children weighing 12.5 to 15 kg. The median desbutyl-lumefantrine/lumefantrine ratio in the children in our study was 1.13%, within the range reported for adults and higher at later time points because of the longer desbutyl-lumefantrine terminal elimination half-life. A combined desbutyl-lumefantrine and lumefantrine AUC(0-) weighted on in vitro antimalarial activity was inversely associated with recurrent parasitemia, suggesting that both the parent drug and the metabolite contribute to the treatment outcome of artemether-lumefantrine.

UI  - 21864343
TI  - A cluster-randomized trial of mass drug administration with a gametocytocidal drug combination to interrupt malaria transmission in a low endemic area in Tanzania.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT00509015.

UI  - 21864016
TI  - Thrombocytopenia in childhood malaria with special reference to P. vivax monoinfection: A study from Bikaner (Northwestern India).
AB  - Thrombocytopenia is commonly seen in Plasmodium vivax malaria, but its prognostic value has not been addressed in children. This prospective study included 676 admitted children of malaria [Plasmodium falciparum (Pf) monoinfection 262, Plasmodium vivax (Pv) monoinfection 380, and mixed (Pf+Pv) infection 34], in which thrombocytopenia (platelet count <15010(3)/mm(3) on admission) was found in 442 (65.38%) children [Pf monoinfection 55.3% (145/262), Pv monoinfection 73.16% (278/380), and mixed infection 55.88% (19/34)]. The association of thrombocytopenia was statistically significant with Pv monoinfection [73.16% (278/380)] in comparison to either Pf monoinfection [55.34% (145/262); odds ratio (OR)=2.199 (95% confidence interval (CI) 1.577-3.068), p<0.0001] or mixed infection [55.88% (19/34); OR=2.152 (95%CI 1.054-4.394), p=0.032]. In Pv monoinfection, thrombocytopenia was highest in 0-5 years age group and subsequently decreased with advancing age, whereas in Pf monoinfection it was reverse. Severe thrombocytopenia (platelet count <2010(3)/mm(3)) was present in 16.52% (73/442) children [Pv monoinfection 21.58% (60/278) and Pf monoinfection 8.97% (13/145)]. The risk of developing severe thrombocytopenia was also highest in Pv monoinfection [15.79% (60/380)] in comparison to Pf monoinfection [10.59% (13/262); OR=3.591 (95%CI 1.928-6.690), p<0.0001]. Bleeding manifestations were associated in 21.27% (94/442) children [Pf monoinfection 9.92% (26/262), Pv monoinfection 16.58% (63/380), and mixed malaria 14.71% (5/34)]. All the children having bleeding manifestations had thrombocytopenia but low platelet counts were not always associated with abnormal bleeding. The association of severe malaria was significantly more among children having Pv monoinfection with platelet counts <2010(3)/mm(3) [OR=2.569 (95%CI 1.196-5.517), p<0.014] with specificity of 88.3% and positive predictive value of 85%. Till today, thrombocytopenia is not included in severe malaria criterion described by WHO, but when platelet counts <20103/mm(3), we advocate it to include as one of the severe malaria criteria.

UI  - 21862998
TI  - Phase Ia clinical evaluation of the Plasmodium falciparum blood-stage antigen MSP1 in ChAd63 and MVA vaccine vectors.
AB  - Efficacy trials of antibody-inducing protein-in-adjuvant vaccines targeting the blood-stage Plasmodium falciparum malaria parasite have so far shown disappointing results. The induction of cell-mediated responses in conjunction with antibody responses is thought to be one alternative strategy that could achieve protective efficacy in humans. Here, we prepared chimpanzee adenovirus 63 (ChAd63) and modified vaccinia virus Ankara (MVA) replication-deficient vectors encoding the well-studied P. falciparum blood-stage malaria antigen merozoite surface protein 1 (MSP1). A phase Ia clinical trial was conducted in healthy adults of a ChAd63-MVA MSP1 heterologous prime-boost immunization regime. The vaccine was safe and generally well tolerated. Fewer systemic adverse events (AEs) were observed following ChAd63 MSP1 than MVA MSP1 administration. Exceptionally strong T-cell responses were induced, and these displayed a mixed of CD4(+) and CD8(+) phenotype. Substantial MSP1-specific serum immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibody responses were also induced, which were capable of recognizing native parasite antigen, but these did not reach titers sufficient to neutralize P. falciparum parasites in vitro. This viral vectored vaccine regime is thus a leading approach for the induction of strong cellular and humoral immunogenicity against difficult disease targets in humans. Further studies are required to assess whether this strategy can achieve protective efficacy against blood-stage malaria infection.

UI  - 21858097
TI  - Morbidity from malaria in children in the year after they had received intermittent preventive treatment of malaria: a randomised trial.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00738946.

UI  - 21858096
TI  - Malaria morbidity in children in the year after they had received intermittent preventive treatment of malaria in Mali: a randomized control trial.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00738946.

UI  - 21849081
TI  - Frequency of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency in malaria patients from six African countries enrolled in two randomized anti-malarial clinical trials.
AB  - Clinicaltrials.gov: NCT00344006 and NCT00371735.

UI  - 21838909
TI  - Repeated treatment of recurrent uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in Senegal with fixed-dose artesunate plus amodiaquine versus fixed-dose artemether plus lumefantrine: a randomized, open-label trial.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov identifier NCT00540410.

UI  - 21838903
TI  - The importance of considering community-level effects when selecting insecticidal malaria vector products.
AB  - Process-explicit simulations of community-level protection, parameterized using locally-relevant experimental hut studies, should be explicitly considered when choosing vector control products for large-scale epidemiological trials or public health programme procurement, particularly as growing insecticide resistance necessitates the use of multiple active ingredients.

UI  - 21829466
TI  - A randomized controlled phase Ib trial of the malaria vaccine candidate GMZ2 in African children.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00703066.

UI  - 21827706
TI  - Randomized trials of artemisinin-piperaquine, dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine phosphate and artemether-lumefantrine for the treatment of multi-drug resistant falciparum malaria in Cambodia-Thailand border area.
AB  - The trial was registered at Chinese Clinical Trial Register under identifier 2005L01041.

UI  - 21820166
TI  - The effect of mobile phone text-message reminders on Kenyan health workers' adherence to malaria treatment guidelines: a cluster randomised trial.
AB  - The Wellcome Trust.

UI  - 21816079
TI  - Cognition, behaviour and academic skills after cognitive rehabilitation in Ugandan children surviving severe malaria: a randomised trial.
AB  - ISRCTN: ISRCTN53183087.

UI  - 21816032
TI  - Development of standardized laboratory methods and quality processes for a phase III study of the RTS, S/AS01 candidate malaria vaccine.
AB  - Clinicaltrials.gov NCT00866619.

UI  - 21816031
TI  - Assessment of severe malaria in a multicenter, phase III, RTS, S/AS01 malaria candidate vaccine trial: case definition, standardization of data collection and patient care.
AB  - Clinicaltrials.gov NCT00866619.

UI  - 21816030
TI  - Statistical methodology for the evaluation of vaccine efficacy in a phase III multi-centre trial of the RTS, S/AS01 malaria vaccine in African children.
AB  - The methodology selected to analyse the clinical trial must be scientifically sound, acceptable to regulatory authorities and meaningful to those responsible for malaria control and public health policy.

UI  - 21816029
TI  - Design of a phase III multicenter trial to evaluate the efficacy of the RTS,S/AS01 malaria vaccine in children across diverse transmission settings in Africa.
AB  - Clinicaltrials.gov NCT00866619.

UI  - 21810747
TI  - Brain swelling and mannitol therapy in adult cerebral malaria: a randomized trial.
AB  - Brain swelling on CT scan is a common finding in adult patients with cerebral malaria but is not related to coma depth or survival. Mannitol therapy as adjunctive treatment for brain swelling in adult cerebral malaria prolongs coma duration and may be harmful.

UI  - 21799810
TI  - Virosome-formulated Plasmodium falciparum AMA-1 & CSP derived peptides as malaria vaccine: randomized phase 1b trial in semi-immune adults & children.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00513669.

UI  - 21799809
TI  - Impact on malaria parasite multiplication rates in infected volunteers of the protein-in-adjuvant vaccine AMA1-C1/Alhydrogel+CPG 7909.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov [NCT00984763].

UI  - 21798054
TI  - In vivo efficacy of artemether-lumefantrine against uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in Central Ethiopia.
AB  - NCT01052584.

UI  - 21782519
TI  - Safety and efficacy of the RTS,S/AS01E candidate malaria vaccine given with expanded-programme-on-immunisation vaccines: 19 month follow-up of a randomised, open-label, phase 2 trial.
AB  - Program for Appropriate Technology in Health Malaria Vaccine Initiative; GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals.

UI  - 21774826
TI  - Multicentric assessment of the efficacy and tolerability of dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine compared to artemether-lumefantrine in the treatment of uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in sub-Saharan Africa.
AB  - Dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine was as effective and well-tolerated as artemether-lumefantrine in the treatment of uncomplicated falciparum malaria. In addition, dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine, a single daily dose, could be an advantage over artemether-lumefantrine in Africa because of better treatment observance.

UI  - 21767403
TI  - Increase in EPI vaccines coverage after implementation of intermittent preventive treatment of malaria in infant with Sulfadoxine -pyrimethamine in the district of Kolokani, Mali: results from a cluster randomized control trial.
AB  - This study shows that high coverage of the IPTi can be obtained when the strategy is implemented using routine health services and implementation results in a significant increase in coverage of EPI vaccines in the district of Kolokani, Mali.

UI  - 21765069
TI  - Superiority of 3 over 2 doses of intermittent preventive treatment with sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine for the prevention of malaria during pregnancy in mali: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - ISRCTN 74189211.

UI  - 21762615
TI  - Malaria, Oromia regional state, Ethiopia, 2001-2006.
AB  - 

UI  - 21760916
TI  - Malaria parasitaemia among infants and its association with breastfeeding peer counselling and vitamin A supplementation: a secondary analysis of a cluster randomized trial.
AB  - Clinicaltrials.gov: NCT00397150.

UI  - 21752262
TI  - Inhaled nitric oxide for the adjunctive therapy of severe malaria: protocol for a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT01255215.

UI  - 21750697
TI  - Malaria rapid testing by community health workers is effective and safe for targeting malaria treatment: randomised cross-over trial in Tanzania.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00301015.

UI  - 21740570
TI  - Comparative study of the efficacy and tolerability of dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine-trimethoprim versus artemether-lumefantrine in the treatment of uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in Cameroon, Ivory Coast and Senegal.
AB  - The overall efficacy and tolerability of DPT are similar to those of AL. The ease of taking DPT and its short treatment course (two days) may help to improve adherence to treatment. Taken together, these findings make this medicinal product a treatment of choice for the effective management of malaria in Africa.

UI  - 21709098
TI  - Pharmacokinetics of amodiaquine and desethylamodiaquine in pregnant and postpartum women with Plasmodium vivax malaria.
AB  - In order to study the pharmacokinetic properties of amodiaquine and desethylamodiaquine during pregnancy, 24 pregnant women in the second and third trimesters of pregnancy and with Plasmodium vivax malaria were treated with amodiaquine (10 mg/kg of body weight/day) for 3 days. The same women were studied again at 3 months postpartum. Plasma was analyzed for amodiaquine and desethylamodiaquine by use of a liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry method. Individual concentration-time data were evaluated using noncompartmental analysis. There were no clinically relevant differences in the pharmacokinetics of amodiaquine and desethylamodiaquine between pregnant (n = 24) and postpartum (n = 18) women. The results suggest that the current amodiaquine dosing regimen is adequate for the treatment of P. vivax infections during pregnancy.

UI  - 21709087
TI  - A small amount of fat does not affect piperaquine exposure in patients with malaria.
AB  - Dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine is a new, highly effective, and well-tolerated combination treatment for uncomplicated falciparum malaria. The lipophilic characteristic of piperaquine suggests that administration together with fat will increase the oral bioavailability of the drug, and this has been reported for healthy volunteers. This pharmacokinetic study monitored 30 adult patients with uncomplicated falciparum malaria for 4.5 months to evaluate the effects of the concomitant intake of fat on the total piperaquine exposure. The fixed-drug combination of dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine was given with water to fasting patients (n = 15) or was coadministered with 200 ml milk containing 6.4 g fat (n = 15). The drug combination was generally well tolerated, and there were no severe adverse effects reported for either group during the study. Total piperaquine exposure (area under the concentration-time curve from zero to infinity [AUC(0-)]; results are given as medians [ranges]) were not statistically different between fed (29.5 h  g/ml [20.6 to 58.7 h  g/ml]) and fasting (23.9 h  g/ml [11.9 to 72.9 h  g/ml]) patients, but the interindividual variation was reduced in the fed group. Overall, none of the pharmacokinetic parameters differed statistically between the groups. Total piperaquine exposure correlated well with the day 7 concentrations in the fasted group, but the fed group showed a poor correlation. In conclusion, the coadministration of 6.4 g fat did not have any significant effect on piperaquine pharmacokinetics in the treatment of uncomplicated malaria.

UI  - 21699697
TI  - Clinical trial of extended-dose chloroquine for treatment of resistant falciparum malaria among Afghan refugees in Pakistan.
AB  - CQ is not suitable for first-line falciparum treatment in Afghan refugee communities. The extended-dose CQ regimen can overcome 39% of resistant infections that would recrudesce under the standard regimen, but the high failure rate after directly observed treatment demonstrates its use is inappropriate.

UI  - 21695140
TI  - Non-apical membrane antigen 1 (AMA1) IgGs from Malian children interfere with functional activity of AMA1 IgGs as judged by growth inhibition assay.
AB  - Children living in a malaria endemic area have a fraction of IgGs that interferes with the biological activity of anti-AMA1 antibody as judged by GIA. While the mechanism of interference is not resolved in this study, these results suggest it is not caused by direct competition between non-AMA1 IgG and AMA1 protein. This study indicates that anti-malaria IgGs induced by natural exposure may interfere with the biological effect of antibody induced by an AMA1-based vaccine in the target population.

UI  - 21677532
TI  - Treating common illnesses among children under five years: a portrayal of health-seeking behaviours and practices in the northern areas of Pakistan.
AB  - Health education and health promotion programs must address the knowledge gaps about children's illnesses and advocate appropriate health-seeking behaviours. Issues around quality of care in government centres and affordability in the private health sector must be addressed in order to improve health service utilization.

UI  - 21670177
TI  - Pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic characteristics of a new pediatric formulation of artemether-lumefantrine in African children with uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria.
AB  - The pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties of a new pediatric formulation of artemether-lumefantrine, dispersible tablet, were determined within the context of a multicenter, randomized, parallel-group study. In an exploratory approach, we compared a new pediatric formulation with the tablet formulation administered crushed in the treatment of African children with uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria. Patients were randomized to 3 different dosing groups (weights of 5 to <15 kg, 15 and <25 kg, and 25 to <35 kg). Treatment was administered twice daily over 3 days. Plasma concentrations of artemether and its active metabolite, dihydroartemisinin (DHA), were determined at 1 and 2 h after the first dose of dispersible (n = 91) and crushed (n = 93) tablets. A full pharmacokinetic profile of lumefantrine was reconstituted on the basis of 310 (dispersible tablet) and 315 (crushed tablet) plasma samples, collected at 6 different time points (1 sample per patient). Dispersible and crushed tablets showed similar artemether and DHA maximum concentrations in plasma (C(max)) for the different body weight groups, with overall means of 175  168 and 190  168 ng/ml, respectively, for artemether and 64.7  58.1 and 63.7  65.0 ng/ml, respectively, for DHA. For lumefantrine, the population C(max) were 6.3 g/ml (dispersible tablet) and 7.7 g/ml (crushed tablet), whereas the areas under the concentration-time curves from time zero to the time of the last quantifiable plasma concentration measured were 574 and 636 g  h/ml, respectively. For both formulations, descriptive quintile analyses showed no apparent association between artemether/DHA C(max) and parasite clearance time or between the lumefantrine C(max) and the occurrence of adverse events or corrected QT interval changes. The results suggest that the dispersible tablet provides adequate systemic exposure to artemether, DHA, and lumefantrine in African children with uncomplicated P. falciparum malaria.

UI  - 21666744
TI  - Randomized trial of safety and effectiveness of chlorproguanil-dapsone and lumefantrine-artemether for uncomplicated malaria in children in the Gambia.
AB  - Clinicaltrials.gov NCT00118794.

UI  - 21663656
TI  - To assess whether indoor residual spraying can provide additional protection against clinical malaria over current best practice of long-lasting insecticidal mosquito nets in The Gambia: study protocol for a two-armed cluster-randomised trial.
AB  - ISRCTN01738840 - Spraying And Nets Towards malaria Elimination (SANTE).

UI  - 21655317
TI  - The impact of retail-sector delivery of artemether-lumefantrine on malaria treatment of children under five in Kenya: a cluster randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN59275137 and Kenya Pharmacy and Poisons Board Ethical Committee for Clinical Trials PPB/ECCT/08/07.

UI  - 21631932
TI  - Paracetamol versus placebo in treatment of non-severe malaria in children in Guinea-Bissau: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - NCT00137566.

UI  - 21628653
TI  - Effect of the pre-erythrocytic candidate malaria vaccine RTS,S/AS01E on blood stage immunity in young children.
AB  - Vaccination with RTS,S/AS01E reduces exposure to blood-stage parasites and, thus, reduces anti-merozoite antigen antibody concentrations. However, in this study, these antibodies were not correlates of clinical immunity to malaria. Instead, heterogeneous exposure led to confounded, positive associations between increasing antibody concentration and increasing risk of clinical malaria.

UI  - 21622538
TI  - Oral artesunate-amodiaquine and artemether-lumefantrine in the treatment of uncomplicated hyperparasitaemic Plasmodium falciparum malaria in children.
AB  - The therapeutic efficacy, changes in haematocrit and declines in parasitaemias were evaluated in 56 children with uncomplicated falciparum hyperparasitaemia after oral artesunate-amodiaquine or artemether-lumefantrine. All children recovered clinically within 2 days and without progression to severe malaria. Falls in haematocrit in the first 3 days after treatment began were similar and <5%. Declines in parasitaemias were monoexponential with both treatments with an estimated half-life of 1 h.

UI  - 21603629
TI  - Artesunate dose escalation for the treatment of uncomplicated malaria in a region of reported artemisinin resistance: a randomized clinical trial.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00722150.

UI  - 21569596
TI  - High prevalence of dhfr triple mutant and correlation with high rates of sulphadoxine-pyrimethamine treatment failures in vivo in Gabonese children.
AB  - There is a high prevalence of dhfr triple mutant with some dhps point mutations in Gabon, in line with treatment failures observed, and molecular markers of SP resistance should be closely monitored.

UI  - 21565149
TI  - Evaluating indoor residual spray for reducing malaria infection prevalence in Eritrea: results from a community randomized control trial.
AB  - This paper examines the relationship between indoor residual spray (IRS) and malaria parasite infection in Gash Barka Zone, Eritrea, an area with near universal coverage of insecticide treated bednets (ITN) and already low malaria parasite prevalence. A community randomized control trial was conducted in 2009. Malaria parasite infection prevalence was 0.5% [95% confidence interval (CI): 0.37-0.78%], with no significant difference detected between treatment and control areas. ITN possession remains high, with over 70% of households reporting ITN ownership [95% CI: 68.4-72.9]. ITN use among individuals within ITN-owning households was just under half [46.7% (95% CI: 45.4-48.0)]. Slight differences in ITN possession and use were detected between treatment and control areas. There was no significant difference in malaria parasite infection prevalence among individuals in households with 1 ITN compared to those in households without ITNs, nor among individuals reporting ITN use. Among individuals in ITN-owning households, sleeping under an ITN offered no statistically significant protection from malaria parasite infection. Community participation in environmental and larval habitat management activities was low: 17.9% (95% CI: 16.0-19.7). It is likely that IRS, larval habitat management and ITN distribution alone may be insufficient to interrupt transmission without corresponding high ITN use, sustained IRS application in areas where infections are clustered, and promptly seeking laboratory diagnosis and treatment of all fevers. Eritrea is ready for elimination, irrespective of inconclusive impact evaluation results.

UI  - 21564429
TI  - Efficacy of chloroquine and sulphadoxine-pyrimethamine either alone or in combination before introduction of ACT as first-line therapy in uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in Jalpaiguri District, West Bengal, India.
AB  - In Jalpaiguri District the overall failure rate of CQ was 61% and of SP 14%, which was well above the WHO recommended cut-off threshold level (10%) for change of drug policy.

UI  - 21548983
TI  - Population pharmacokinetics of artesunate and dihydroartemisinin in pregnant and non-pregnant women with malaria.
AB  - In this analysis, pharmacokinetic modelling suggests that pregnant women have accelerated DHA clearance compared to non-pregnant women receiving orally administered AS. These findings, in conjunction with a previous non-compartmental analysis of the modelled data, provide further evidence that higher AS doses would be required to maintain similar DHA levels in pregnant women as achieved in non-pregnant controls.

UI  - 21540397
TI  - Plasmodium falciparum infection during suppressive prophylaxis with mefloquine does not induce an antibody response to merozoite surface protein-1(42).
AB  - A sensitive biomarker of malaria infection would obviate the need for placebo control arms in clinical trials of malaria prophylactic drugs. Antibodies to the 42-kDa fragment of merozoite surface protein-1 (MSP1(42)) have been identified as a potential marker of malaria exposure in individuals receiving prophylaxis with mefloquine. We conducted an open-label trial to determine the sensitivity of seroconversion to MSP1(42), defined as a fourfold rise in enzyme-linked immunosorbant assay (ELISA) titer, among 23 malaria nave volunteers receiving mefloquine prophylaxis and 6 controls after Plasmodium falciparum sporozoite challenge. All members of the control cohort but none of the mefloquine cohort developed patent parasitemia. Four of six controls but zero of the mefloquine cohort seroconverted to MSP1(42). We conclude that malaria infection during suppressive prophylaxis does not induce antibody response to the blood-stage antigen MSP1(42) in a malaria-nave study population.

UI  - 21540395
TI  - Therapeutic efficacy and effects of artemether-lumefantrine and artesunate-amodiaquine coformulated or copackaged on malaria-associated anemia in children with uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in Southwest Nigeria.
AB  - The therapeutic efficacy and effects of artemether-lumefantrine (AL) and artesunate-amodiaquine co-formulated (AAcf) or co-packaged (AAcp) on malaria-associated anemia (MAA) were evaluated in 285 children < 12 years of age with uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria randomized to receive one of the three drug combinations. Fever and parasite clearance times were similar in all treatment groups. Mean drug-attributable fall in hematocrit (DAFH), defined as difference between hematocrit values pre- and 3 d post-initiation of treatment, was low (< 4.5%) and rates of recovery from MAA were similar with all treatments. Mean areas under curve (AUCs) of the plot of deficit in hematocrit levels from 30% versus time in anemic children were similar in all groups. All regimens were well tolerated. AL, AAcf and AAcp cleared fever and parasitemia rapidly and had similar rates of resolution of MAA after treatment in malarious Nigerian children.

UI  - 21529383
TI  - Intravenous artesunate for severe malaria in travelers, Europe.
AB  - Multicenter trials in Southeast Asia have shown better survival rates among patients with severe malaria, particularly those with high parasitemia levels, treated with intravenous (IV) artesunate than among those treated with quinine. In Europe, quinine is still the primary treatment for severe malaria. We conducted a retrospective analysis for 25 travelers with severe malaria who returned from malaria-endemic regions and were treated at 7 centers in Europe. All patients survived. Treatment with IV artesunate rapidly reduced parasitemia levels. In 6 patients at 5 treatment centers, a self-limiting episode of unexplained hemolysis occurred after reduction of parasitemia levels. Five patients required a blood transfusion. Patients with posttreatment hemolysis had received higher doses of IV artesunate than patients without hemolysis. IV artesunate was an effective alternative to quinine for treatment of malaria patients in Europe. Patients should be monitored for signs of hemolysis, especially after parasitologic cure.

UI  - 21529365
TI  - Reduction of anti-malarial consumption after rapid diagnostic tests implementation in Dar es Salaam: a before-after and cluster randomized controlled study.
AB  - Programmatic implementation of mRDTs in a moderately endemic area reduced drastically over-treatment with anti-malarials. Properly trained clinicians with adequate support complied with the recommendation of not treating patients with negative results. Implementation of mRDT should be integrated hand-in-hand with training on the management of other causes of fever to prevent irrational use of antibiotics.

UI  - 21529344
TI  - Coverage of intermittent prevention treatment with sulphadoxine-pyrimethamine among pregnant women and congenital malaria in Cte d'Ivoire.
AB  - IPT-SP decreases the rate of placental malaria parasitaemia and has a strong dose effect. Despite relatively successful IPT-SP coverage in Cte d'Ivoire, substantial commitments from national authorities are urgently required for such public health campaigns. Strategies, such as providing IPT-SP free of charge and directly observing treatment, should be implemented to increase the use of IPT-SP as well as other prophylactic methods.

UI  - 21519221
TI  - A simple dose regimen of artesunate and amodiaquine based on age or body weight range for uncomplicated falciparum malaria in children: comparison of therapeutic efficacy with standard dose regimen of artesunate and amodiaquine and artemether-lumefantrine.
AB  - A new dose regimen of artesunate and amodiaquine (NDRAA) based on age or body weight range was compared with standard dose regimen of artesunate and amodiaquine (SDRAA) calculated according to body weight and with fixed-dose artesunate-amodiaquine (FDAA) and artemether-lumefantrine (AL) in 304 children afflicted by malaria aged 15 years or younger. In initial comparison (n = 208), children on NDRAA received 1-3 times amodiaquine per kilogram of body weight and 1-1.5 times of artesunate per kilogram of body weight compared with those receiving SDRAA. Parasite but not fever clearance was significantly faster in children who received NDRAA (19.4  8.4 hours vs. 24.6  15.5 hours, P = 0.003). Polymerase chain reaction-uncorrected cure rates on days 28-42 were also significantly higher in children who received NDRAA (P < 0.02 in all cases). Therapeutic responses in children younger than 5 years (n = 96) treated with NDRAA, FDAA, and AL were similar. Changes in hematocrit values and reported adverse events after commencing therapy were similar in those who received NDRAA and SDRAA. All drug regimens were well tolerated. NDRAA based on age or body weight range is simple, is therapeutically superior to SDRAA calculated according to body weight, and is as efficacious as AL in children younger than 5 years.

UI  - 21514658
TI  - Long-term protection against malaria after experimental sporozoite inoculation: an open-label follow-up study.
AB  - Dioraphte Foundation.

UI  - 21501642
TI  - A human Phase I/IIa malaria challenge trial of a polyprotein malaria vaccine.
AB  - We examined the safety, immunogenicity and efficacy of a prime-boost vaccination regime involving two poxvirus malaria subunit vaccines, FP9-PP and MVA-PP, expressing the same polyprotein consisting of six pre-erythrocytic antigens from Plasmodium falciparum. Following safety assessment of single doses, 15 volunteers received a heterologous prime-boost vaccination regime and underwent malaria sporozoite challenge. The vaccines were safe but interferon- ELISPOT responses were low compared to other poxvirus vectors, despite targeting multiple antigens. There was no vaccine efficacy as measured by delay in time to parasitaemia. A number of possible explanations are discussed, including the very large insert size of the polyprotein transgene.

UI  - 21494604
TI  - Induction of Plasmodium falciparum-specific CD4+ T cells and memory B cells in Gabonese children vaccinated with RTS,S/AS01(E) and RTS,S/AS02(D).
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00307021.

UI  - 21454456
TI  - Protective efficacy of co-trimoxazole prophylaxis against malaria in HIV exposed children in rural Uganda: a randomised clinical trial.
AB  - Co-trimoxazole prophylaxis was moderately protective against malaria in HIV exposed infants when continued beyond the period of HIV exposure despite the high prevalence of Plasmodium genotypes associated with antifolate resistance. Trial registration Clinical Trials NCT00527800.

UI  - 21453465
TI  - Therapeutic efficacy of chloroquine for treatment of Plasmodium vivax malaria cases in Halaba district, South Ethiopia.
AB  - This report revealed the rise in treatment failure (13% [95% CI = 0.074 - 0.217]) as compared to earlier reports from Ethiopia. It signals the spreading of chloroquine resistant P. vivax (CRPv) strains to malaria endemic areas of Ethiopia. It is recommended that all concerned bodies should act aggressively before further expansion of the current drug resistant malaria.

UI  - 21443960
TI  - Four year immunogenicity of the RTS,S/AS02(A) malaria vaccine in Mozambican children during a phase IIb trial.
AB  - Previous studies with the malaria vaccine RTS,S/AS02(A) in young children in a malaria endemic area of Mozambique have shown it to have a promising safety profile and to reduce the risk of Plasmodium falciparum infection and disease. In this study, we assessed the antibody responses to the P. falciparum and hepatitis B components of the RTS,S/AS02(A) vaccine over a 45 months surveillance period in a large phase IIb trial which included 2022 children aged 1-4 years at recruitment. The RTS,S/AS02(A) vaccine induced high anti-circumsporozoite antibody levels with at least 96% of children remaining seropositive during the entire follow-up period. IgG titers decayed over the first 6 months of follow-up to about 25% of the initial level, but still remained 30-fold higher until month 45 compared to controls. Children with higher levels of naturally acquired immunity at baseline, assessed by blood stage indirect fluorescent antibody test, had slightly higher anti-circumsporozoite levels, after adjusting for the effect of age. The RTS,S/AS02(A) vaccine also induced high levels of anti-hepatitis B surface antigen antibodies (seroprotection >97%). RTS,S/AS02(A) vaccine is immunogenic and induces long-lasting anti-circumsporozoite antibodies, persisting at least 42 months after immunization. These antibodies may play a role in protection against malaria.

UI  - 21427404
TI  - Improved growth and anemia in HIV-infected African children taking cotrimoxazole prophylaxis.
AB  - The impact of cotrimoxazole (CTX) on growth and/or anemia was investigated in 541 human immunodeficiency virus-infected, antiretroviral therapy-naive Zambian children enrolled in the Children with HIV Antibiotic Prophylaxis trial. Compared with children randomized to receive placebo, children randomized to receive CTX had slower decreases in weight-for-age (P=.04) and height-for-age (P=.01), and greater increase in hemoglobin level (P=.01). These findings argue for expanded early CTX use.

UI  - 21427394
TI  - Efficacy and effectiveness of artemether-lumefantrine after initial and repeated treatment in children <5 years of age with acute uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in rural Tanzania: a randomized trial.
AB  - ISRCTN69189899.

UI  - 21416034
TI  - Effectiveness of a community intervention on malaria in rural Tanzania - a randomised controlled trial.
AB  - The decrease in anaemia was significantly associated with the intervention, whereas the fever and body weight trends might be explained by other malaria control activities or seasonal/climate effects in the area. The community intervention was shown to be feasible in the study context.

UI  - 21413089
TI  - Effects of lime juice on malaria parasite clearance.
AB  - One hundred and twenty children with acute uncomplicated malaria who were managed at the children's outpatient department of the Wesley Guild Hospital, Ilesa (a unit of Obafemi Awolowo University Teaching Hospitals' Complex, Ile-Ife, Osun state, Nigeria) were recruited into the study to determine the effects of lime juice on malaria parasite clearance. These children were randomized into treatment with World Health Organization recommended antimalarials (artemisinin combination therapy, ACT) either alone or with lime juice. Nine of them were lost to follow-up, four were in the group that were managed with ACT and lime, and five in the group that were managed on ACT alone. The average (SD) time to achieve >75% reduction in parasite load was significantly lower in patients on ACT and lime; 30.52.4h against 38.63.3h for those on ACT alone (p<0.001). Also, while a significantly higher proportion of children on antimalarial drugs and lime juice achieved complete parasite clearance by 72h of therapy (p=0.007), ten (18.2%) patients without lime had early treatment failure (p=0.003). There were no side effects with the use of lime juice. It may therefore be inferred, from this preliminary work, that lime juice when used with the appropriate antimalarial may enhance malaria parasite clearance especially in those with uncomplicated malaria.

UI  - 21410954
TI  - Effectiveness of artemether-lumefantrine provided by community health workers in under-five children with uncomplicated malaria in rural Tanzania: an open label prospective study.
AB  - Provision of AL by CHWs for unsupervised malaria treatment at home was highly effective, which provides evidence base for scaling-up implementation of HMM with AL in Tanzania.

UI  - 21410944
TI  - A phase I trial to evaluate the safety and pharmacokinetics of low-dose methotrexate as an anti-malarial drug in Kenyan adult healthy volunteers.
AB  - Low-dose methotraxate had an acceptable safety profile. However, methotrexate blood levels did not reach the desirable C(eff) of 250-400-nM required to clear malaria infection in vivo. Further dose finding and safety studies are necessary to confirm suitability of this drug as an anti-malarial agent.

UI  - 21395928
TI  - Enhancing the routine health information system in rural southern Tanzania: successes, challenges and lessons learned.
AB  - Electronic capture of HMIS data was rapidly and successfully implemented in this resource-poor setting. Electronic capture alone did not resolve issues of data completeness, accuracy and reliability, which are essential for management, monitoring and evaluation; suggestions to monitor and improve data quality are made.

UI  - 21383095
TI  - Effect of nutritional status on response to treatment with artemisinin-based combination therapy in young Ugandan children with malaria.
AB  - The relationship between malnutrition and malaria in young children is under debate, and no studies evaluating the association between malnutrition and response to artemisinin-based combination therapies (ACTs) have been published. We evaluated the association between malnutrition and response to antimalarial therapy in Ugandan children treated with ACTs for repeated episodes of malaria. Children aged 4 to 12 months diagnosed with uncomplicated malaria were randomized to dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine (DP) or artemether-lumefantrine (AL) and followed for up to 2 years. All HIV-exposed and HIV-infected children received trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole prophylaxis (TS). The primary exposure variables included height-for-age and weight-for-age z scores. Outcomes included parasite clearance at days 2 and 3 and risk of recurrent parasitemia after 42 days of follow-up. Two hundred ninety-two children were randomized to DP or AL, resulting in 2,013 malaria treatments. Fewer than 1% of patients had a positive blood smear by day 3 (DP, 0.2%; AL, 0.6% [P = 0.18]). There was no significant association between height-for-age or weight-for-age z scores and a positive blood smear 2 days following treatment. For children treated with DP but not on TS, decreasing height-for-age z scores of <-1 were associated with a higher risk of recurrent parasitemia than a height-for-age z score of >0 (hazard ratio [HR] for height-for-age z score of <-1 and -2 = 2.89 [P = 0.039]; HR for height-for-age z score of <-2 = 3.18 [P = 0.022]). DP and AL are effective antimalarial therapies in chronically malnourished children in a high-transmission setting. However, children with mild to moderate chronic malnutrition not taking TS are at higher risk for recurrent parasitemia and may be considered a target for chemoprevention.

UI  - 21379417
TI  - Cost-effectiveness of artemisinin combination therapy for uncomplicated malaria in children: data from Papua New Guinea.
AB  - A+L and DHA+PQ are highly cost-effective regimens for the treatment of paediatric P. falciparum and P.vivax malaria, respectively, in parts of Papua New Guinea. Future research will be required to determine if these findings hold true for other territories in Asia and Oceania with similar malaria epidemiology.

UI  - 21363973
TI  - Associations between peripheral Plasmodium falciparum malaria parasitemia, human immunodeficiency virus, and concurrent helminthic infection among pregnant women in Malawi.
AB  - Approximately 2 billion persons worldwide are infected with schistosomiasis and soil-transmitted helminths (STH), many in areas where endemic malaria transmission coexists. Few data exist on associations between these infections. Nested within a larger clinical trial, primigravid and secundigravid women provided blood samples for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) testing and peripheral malaria films and stool and urine for evaluation of STH and Schistosoma spp. during their initial antenatal clinic visit. The most common parasitic infections were malaria (37.6%), S. haematobium (32.3%), and hookworm (14.4%); 14.2% of women were HIV-infected. S. haematobium infection was associated with lower malarial parasite densities (344 versus 557 parasites/L blood; P < 0.05). In multivariate analysis, HIV and hookworm infection were independently associated with malaria infection (adjusted odds ratio = 1.9 and 95% confidence interval = 1.2-3.0 for HIV; adjusted odds ratio = 1.9 and 95% confidence interval = 1.03-3.5 for hookworm). Concurrent helminthic infection had both positive and negative effects on malaria parasitemia among pregnant women in Malawi.

UI  - 21362162
TI  - Phase I randomized dose-ascending placebo-controlled trials of ferroquine--a candidate anti-malarial drug--in adults with asymptomatic Plasmodium falciparum infection.
AB  - These phase I trials showed that clinically, ferroquine was generally well-tolerated up to 1,600 mg as single dose and up to 800 mg as repeated dose in asymptomatic young male with P. falciparum infection. Further clinical development of ferroquine, either alone or in combination with another anti-malarial, is highly warranted and currently underway.

UI  - 21352609
TI  - Safety and efficacy of dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine versus artemether-lumefantrine in the treatment of uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in Zambian children.
AB  - ISRCTN16263443, at http://www.controlled-trials.com/isrctn.

UI  - 21320346
TI  - Evaluating the effectiveness of IPTi on malaria using routine health information from sentinel health centres in southern Tanzania.
AB  - The point estimate of the effect of IPTi on malaria is consistent with that from a large pooled analysis of randomized control trials. As such, it is plausible that the difference seen in health centre data is due to IPTi, even thought the effect did not reach statistical significance. Findings draw attention to the challenges of robust inference of effects of interventions based on routine health centre data. Analysis of routine health information can reassure that interventions are being made available and having desired effects, but unanticipated effects should trigger data collection from representative samples of the target population.

UI  - 21292873
TI  - Phase I safety and immunogenicity trial of Plasmodium vivax CS derived long synthetic peptides adjuvanted with montanide ISA 720 or montanide ISA 51.
AB  - We assessed the safety, tolerability, and immunogenicity of a mixture of three synthetic peptides derived from the Plasmodium vivax circumsporozoite protein formulated in Montanide ISA 720 or Montanide ISA 51. Forty healthy malaria-naive volunteers were allocated to five experimental groups (A-E): four groups (A-D) were immunized intramuscularly with 50 and 100 g/dose injections of a mixture of N, R, and C peptides formulated in the two different adjuvants at 0, 2, and 4 months and one group was administered placebo. Vaccines were immunogenic, safe, well tolerated, and no serious adverse events related to the vaccine occurred. Seroconversion occurred in > 90% of the vaccines and antibodies recognized the sporozoite protein on immunofluorescent antibody test. Vaccines in Montanide ISA 51 showed a higher sporozoite protein recognition and interferon production. Results encourage further testing of the vaccine protective efficacy.

UI  - 21292872
TI  - Consistent safety and infectivity in sporozoite challenge model of Plasmodium vivax in malaria-naive human volunteers.
AB  - A safe and reproducible Plasmodium vivax infectious challenge method is required to evaluate the efficacy of malaria vaccine candidates. Seventeen healthy Duffy (+) and five Duffy (-) subjects were randomly allocated into three (A-C) groups and were exposed to the bites of 2-4 Anopheles albimanus mosquitoes infected with Plasmodium vivax derived from three donors. Duffy (-) subjects were included as controls for each group. Clinical manifestations of malaria and parasitemia were monitored beginning 7 days post-challenge. All Duffy (+) volunteers developed patent malaria infection within 16 days after challenge. Prepatent period determined by thick smear, was longer for Group A (median 14.5 d) than for Groups B and C (median 10 d/each). Infected volunteers recovered rapidly after treatment with no serious adverse events. The bite of as low as two P. vivax-infected mosquitoes provides safe and reliable infections in malaria-naive volunteers, suitable for assessing antimalarial and vaccine efficacy trials.

UI  - 21304925
TI  - Intermittent preventive treatment of malaria provides substantial protection against malaria in children already protected by an insecticide-treated bednet in Burkina Faso: a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.govNCT00738946. Please see later in the article for the Editors' Summary.

UI  - 21304923
TI  - Intermittent preventive treatment of malaria provides substantial protection against malaria in children already protected by an insecticide-treated bednet in Mali: a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00738946. Please see later in the article for the Editors' Summary.

UI  - 21304921
TI  - Two strategies for the delivery of IPTc in an area of seasonal malaria transmission in the Gambia: a randomised controlled trial.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00376155. Please see later in the article for the Editors' Summary.

UI  - 21292898
TI  - Prevention of malaria during pregnancy: assessing the effect of the distribution of IPTp through the national policy in Benin.
AB  - The efficiency of malaria prevention during pregnancy was compared between three studies in Benin for malaria infection of the placenta (MIP) and low birth weight (LBW). The first was carried out when chloroquine prophylaxis was still recommended, the second was an intermittent preventive treatment in pregnancy (IPTp) clinical trial comparing sulfadoxine pyrimetamine (SP) versus mefloquine, and the third was an observational study after SP-IPTp national implementation. We showed an association between the use of IPTp and the reduction of LBW (10% with national IPTp and 8.7% in IPTp trial versus 15.7% in pre-trial study). The effect on MIP was better in the trial (2.9% versus 11.2% and 16.7% for national IPTp and pre-trial studies, respectively). In spite of a good overall compliance with the national IPTp (with 84% of women taking at least one dose of SP), there are still failures in adherence to the directly observed therapy (DOT) scheme and needs for better training of health staff.

UI  - 21282434
TI  - Pharmacokinetic properties of conventional and double-dose sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine given as intermittent preventive treatment in infancy.
AB  - Intermittent preventive treatment in infancy (IPTi) entails routine administration of antimalarial treatment doses at specified times in at-risk infants. Sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine (SDX/PYR) is a combination that has been used as first-line IPTi. Because of limited pharmacokinetic data and suggestions that higher milligram/kilogram pediatric doses than recommended should be considered, we assessed SDX/PYR disposition, randomized to conventional (25/1.25 mg/kg of body weight) or double (50/2.5 mg/kg) dose, in 70 Papua New Guinean children aged 2 to 13 months. Blood samples were drawn at baseline, 28 days, and three time points randomly selected for each infant at 4 to 8 h or 2, 5, 7, 14, or 21 days. Plasma SDX, PYR, and N(4)-acetylsulfadoxine (NSX, the principal metabolite of SDX) were assayed by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). Using population modeling incorporating hepatic maturation and cystatin C-based renal function, two-compartment models provided best fits for PYR and SDX/NSX plasma concentration profiles. The area under the plasma concentration-time curve from 0 h to infinity (AUC(0-)) was greater with the double dose versus the conventional dose of PYR (4,915 versus 2,844 g/day/liter) and SDX (2,434 versus 1,460 mg/day/liter). There was a 32% reduction in SDX relative bioavailability with the double dose but no evidence of dose-dependent metabolism. Terminal elimination half-lives (15.6 days for PYR, 9.1 days for SDX) were longer than previously reported. Both doses were well tolerated without changes in hemoglobin or hepatorenal function. Five children in the conventional and three in the double-dose group developed malaria during follow-up. These data support the potential use of double-dose SDX/PYR in infancy, but further studies should examine the influence of hepatorenal maturation in very young infants.

UI  - 21277721
TI  - [Evaluation of imported pediatric malaria management in northern France].
AB  - The French Infectious Disease Society (SPILF) recommendations were not well observed. This inappropriate management was responsible for treatment failures and increased costs.

UI  - 21267072
TI  - Pyronaridine-artesunate versus chloroquine in patients with acute Plasmodium vivax malaria: a randomized, double-blind, non-inferiority trial.
AB  - Clinicaltrials.gov NCT00440999.

UI  - 21257227
TI  - IgG against Plasmodium falciparum variant surface antigens and growth inhibitory antibodies in Mozambican children receiving intermittent preventive treatment with sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine.
AB  - This study aimed to evaluate whether intermittent preventive treatment in infants with sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine (IPTi-SP) had an effect on the acquisition of IgG against Plasmodium falciparum variant surface antigens (VSA) and growth-inhibitory antibodies in Manhia, Mozambique. In addition, we assessed factors affecting the magnitude of these responses and the association between antibody levels and protection against malaria. IgG to VSA expressed by MOZ2, R29 and E8B parasite isolates were measured in plasma samples collected at 5, 9, 12 and 24 months of age by flow cytometry. Growth-inhibitory antibodies in dialyzed plasmas using GFP-D10 parasites were measured by flow cytometry at 12 and 24 months. IPTi-SP did not significantly modify the levels of IgG against VSA nor the growth-inhibitory capacity of antibodies up to 2 years of age. Age but not previous episodes of malaria influenced the magnitude of these responses. In addition, anti-VSA IgG levels were 7% higher in children with current P. falciparum infection and were associated with neighborhood of residence. Children aged 24 months had 10% less parasite growth than those aged 12 months (95% CI 0.88-0.93, P<0.0001). Growth-inhibitory antibodies correlated with levels of IgG against AMA-1, when evaluating the 10% (R(2)=0.444, P=0.049) and 20% (R(2)=0.230, P=0.037) highest inhibitory samples. None of the responses were associated with subsequent risk of malaria. In conclusion, IPTi-SP does not negatively affect the development of antibody responses thought to be major contributors to the acquisition of immunity to malaria in infancy.

UI  - 21247484
TI  - Anaemia in a phase 2 study of a blood stage falciparum malaria vaccine.
AB  - While these additional analyses show a robust effect of vaccination on anaemia, this is an intensive exploration of secondary results and should, therefore, be interpreted with caution. Possible mechanisms of the apparent adverse effect on haemoglobin of vaccination with AMA1-C1/Alhydrogel and implications for blood stage vaccine development are discussed. The potential impact on malaria-associated anaemia should be closely evaluated in clinical trials of AMA1 and other blood stage vaccines in malaria-exposed populations.

UI  - 21237715
TI  - Efficacy of RTS,S/AS01E malaria vaccine and exploratory analysis on anti-circumsporozoite antibody titres and protection in children aged 5-17 months in Kenya and Tanzania: a randomised controlled trial.
AB  - PATH Malaria Vaccine Initiative (MVI), GlaxoSmithKline.

UI  - 21219551
TI  - Effect of artesunate and mefloquine in combination on the Fridericia corrected QT intervals in Plasmodium falciparum infected adults from Thailand.
AB  - In this small group of patients, slowing heart rates due to malaria resolution best explained the observed increases in the QTcF intervals.

UI  - 21214940
TI  - A trial of intermittent preventive treatment and home-based management of malaria in a rural area of The Gambia.
AB  - Due to the very low incidence of malaria, no firm conclusion can be drawn on the added benefit of IPTc in preventing clinical episodes of malaria among children who had access to HMM in The Gambia. However, the study showed that VHWs can successfully combine provision of HMM with provision of IPTc.

UI  - 21214690
TI  - Artesunate/mefloquine paediatric formulation vs. artemether/lumefantrine for the treatment of uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum in Anonkoua kout, Cte d'Ivoire.
AB  - AS+MEF is as effective as AL, and both combinations were efficacious and safe.

UI  - 21212216
TI  - Confirmed vivax resistance to chloroquine and effectiveness of artemether-lumefantrine for the treatment of vivax malaria in Ethiopia.
AB  - Chloroquine (CQ) is still the drug of choice for the treatment of vivax malaria in Ethiopia, whereas artemether-lumefantrine (AL) is for falciparum malaria. In this setting, clinical malaria cases are treated with AL. This necessitated the need to assess the effectiveness of AL for the treatment of Plasmodium vivax with CQ as a comparator. A total of 57 (80.3%) and 75 (85.2%) cases treated with CQ or AL, respectively, completed the study in an outpatient setting. At the end of the follow-up period of 28 days, a cumulative incidence of treatment failure of 7.5% (95% confidence interval [CI] = 2.9-18.9%) for CQ and 19% (95% CI = 11-31.6%) for AL was detected. CQ resistance was confirmed in three of five CQ treatment failures cases. The effectiveness of AL seems lower than CQ; however, the findings were not conclusive, because the AL evening doses were not supervised.

UI  - 21203389
TI  - Intermittent screening and treatment versus intermittent preventive treatment of malaria in pregnancy: a randomised controlled non-inferiority trial.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00432367 [NCT00432367].

UI  - 21199881
TI  - Impact of malaria at the end of pregnancy on infant mortality and morbidity.
AB  - Malaria infection at the end of pregnancy and maternal clinical malaria negatively impact survival and malaria morbidity in infancy. Effective clinical management and prevention of malaria in pregnancy may improve infant's health and survival.

UI  - 21194422
TI  - An open randomized clinical trial in comparing two artesunate-based combination treatments on Plasmodium falciparum malaria in Nigerian children: artesunate/sulphamethoxypyrazine/pyrimethamine (fixed dose over 24 hours) versus artesunate/amodiaquine (fixed dose over 48 hours).
AB  - This study demonstrates that AS + SMP FDC given as three doses over 24 hours (12-hour intervals) has similar efficacy as AS + AQ FDC given as three doses over 48 hours (24-hour interval) for the treatment of uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in children in Nigeria. Both drugs also proved to be safe. Therefore, AS + SMP could be an alternative to currently recommended first-line ACT with continuous resistance surveillance.

UI  - 23134943
TI  - Automated detection of malaria with haematology analyzer Sysmex XE-2100.
AB  - Flowcytometric analyzer is a rapid, high throughput device which needs less expertization for the diagnosis of malaria. Hence, it can be used in the diagnostic laboratories as an early modality for diagnosis of malaria in suspected as well as clinically in apparent cases.

UI  - 21192244
TI  - Therapeutic efficacy of artesunate-amodiaquine combinations and the plasma and saliva concentrations of desethylamodiaquine in children with acute uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria.
AB  - The treatment efficacy of artesunate-amodiaquine (AQ) coformulated or copackaged, and the plasma and saliva concentrations of desethylamodiaquine (DEAQ), the active metabolite of AQ, were evaluated in 120 and 7 children, respectively, with uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria treated with oral daily doses of the 2 formulations for 3 days. All children recovered clinically. Fever clearance (1.1  0.2 vs 1.0  0 days) and parasite clearance times (21.1  10.2 vs 19.0  7.0 hours) in artesunate-AQ coformulated and artesunate-AQ copackaged treated children, respectively, were similar. All children remained aparasitemic for at least 28 days. Blood and saliva samples were collected over 35 days and DEAQ in plasma and saliva was determined by high-performance liquid chromatography. DEAQ was detectable in plasma and saliva within 40 minutes of oral administration of artesunate-AQ. DEAQ concentrations 7 days after the start of therapy were 247.8 and 125.1 ng/mL in plasma and saliva, respectively. The concentration-time curves of plasma and saliva in declining phases were approximately parallel giving a similar half-life of 169.1  16.4 and 142.8  6.5 hours in plasma and saliva, respectively. Clearance from plasma and saliva was also similar (335.6 and 443.4 mLhkg, respectively). Area under concentration-time curves (AUC0-35d) for plasma and saliva were 94,744.9 and 74,004.2 ngmLh, respectively. In general, Saliva-plasma concentration ratio was 0.25-0.4. DEAQ concentrations in saliva may be useful for monitoring therapy and for the evaluation of the disposition of AQ in children with falciparum malaria treated with AQ-based combination.

UI  - 21191379
TI  - Population pharmacokinetics of sulfadoxine and pyrimethamine in Malawian children with malaria.
AB  - In addition to parasite resistance, inadequate levels of exposure to antimalarial drugs may contribute to treatment failure. We developed population pharmacokinetic (PK) models to describe the distribution of sulfadoxine (SDX) and pyrimethamine (PYM) in children with uncomplicated malaria in Malawi. The concentration levels of antimalarial drugs in whole blood were determined using high-performance liquid chromatography. We found no evidence of underdosing in children as compared with adults; the children had drug exposure levels similar to those described in adults. Treatment failure was more likely in children with lower PYM concentrations on day 14 (P = 0.024), and there was a trend for lower SDX concentrations on day 14 (P = 0.061). SDX and PYM concentrations at levels predictive of treatment failure have been identified at day 14. Less than one-third of the children displayed drug concentration levels above these thresholds after receiving the recommended SDX-pyrimethamine (SP) dose. Our findings suggest that PK factors contributed to the observed high rate of treatment failure, and we therefore recommend a higher SP dose for children under the age of 5 years.

UI  - 21176197
TI  - Community response to intermittent preventive treatment of malaria in infants (IPTi) in Papua New Guinea.
AB  - The degree of similarity between findings from the acceptability studies undertaken in sub-Saharan Africa and PNG allows some generalization relating to the implementation of IPTi outside of Africa: IPTi fits well with local health cultures, appears to be accepted easily and has little impact on attitudes towards EPI or malaria prevention. The study adds to the evidence indicating that IPTi could be rolled out in a range of social and cultural contexts.

UI  - 21159081
TI  - The clinical impact of combining intermittent preventive treatment with home management of malaria in children aged below 5 years: cluster randomised trial.
AB  - In this study area, incidence of fevers was lower in communities given three courses of IPTc during the time of peak transmission than in communities that received only HMM. However, high levels of coverage for IPTc will be necessary for maximum impact.

UI  - 21148518
TI  - HIV and placental infection modulate the appearance of drug-resistant Plasmodium falciparum in pregnant women who receive intermittent preventive treatment.
AB  - IPTp with SP increases the prevalence of resistance markers in the placenta and in HIV-infected women at delivery, which suggests that host immunity is key for the clearance of drug-resistant infections. However, this effect of IPTp is limited to the period when blood levels of SP are likely to be significant and does not translate into more-severe infections or adverse clinical outcomes.

UI  - 21148503
TI  - Similar efficacy and tolerability of double-dose chloroquine and artemether-lumefantrine for treatment of Plasmodium falciparum infection in Guinea-Bissau: a randomized trial.
AB  - Both treatments achieved the World Health Organization-recommended efficacy for antimalarials that will be adopted as policy. High-dose chloroquine treatment regimes should be further evaluated with the aim of assessing chloroquine as a potential partner drug to artemisinin derivatives. Clinical trials registration. NCT00426439.

UI  - 21148048
TI  - Pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of arterolane maleate following multiple oral doses in adult patients with P. falciparum malaria.
AB  - Arterolane (RBx 11160) maleate is a novel, rapidly acting synthetic trioxolane antimalarial compound being developed by Ranbaxy Research Laboratories (Haryana, India). It is presently under phase III in combination with piperaquine phosphate. The present work reports the relationship between pharmacokinetic (PK) parameter (AUC(0-8h) on day 0/day 6) and indices of pharmacodynamic (PD) response (50% parasite clearance [PC(50)], 90% parasite clearance [PC(90)], parasite clearance time [PCT], recrudescence) from a phase II, double-blind, multicenter, randomized, parallel-group, dose-ranging trial. Patients with acute uncomplicated P. falciparum malaria were randomized to 1 of 3 arterolane maleate (50, 100, and 200 mg) doses for 7 consecutive days. Plasma concentration data were available from 78, 76, and 75 patients receiving a 50-, 100-, and 200-mg dose, respectively. Based on PD modeling, its limitations and assumptions, minimum 150-mg dose arterolane maleate was recommended to optimize the probability of maximum therapeutic benefits for an adult. Doses higher than 100 mg are unlikely to reduce the probability of recrudescence. This study re-stresses the need of combining short and long-acting drugs to prevent resistance development and minimize recrudescence.

UI  - 21124768
TI  - Safety of the malaria vaccine candidate, RTS,S/AS01E in 5 to 17 month old Kenyan and Tanzanian Children.
AB  - The malaria vaccine candidate, RTS,S/AS01(E), showed promising protective efficacy in a trial of Kenyan and Tanzanian children aged 5 to 17 months. Here we report on the vaccine's safety and tolerability. The experimental design was a Phase 2b, two-centre, double-blind (observer- and participant-blind), randomised (11 ratio) controlled trial. Three doses of study or control (rabies) vaccines were administered intramuscularly at 1 month intervals. Solicited adverse events (AEs) were collected for 7 days after each vaccination. There was surveillance and reporting for unsolicited adverse events for 30 days after each vaccination. Serious adverse events (SAEs) were recorded throughout the study period which lasted for 14 months after dose 1 in Korogwe, Tanzania and an average of 18 months post-dose 1 in Kilifi, Kenya. Blood samples for safety monitoring of haematological, renal and hepatic functions were taken at baseline, 3, 10 and 14 months after dose 1. A total of 894 children received RTS,S/AS01(E) or rabies vaccine between March and August 2007. Overall, children vaccinated with RTS,S/AS01(E) had fewer SAEs (51/447) than children in the control group (88/447). One SAE episode in a RTS,S/AS01(E) recipient and nine episodes among eight rabies vaccine recipients met the criteria for severe malaria. Unsolicited AEs were reported in 78% of subjects in the RTS,S/AS01(E) group and 74% of subjects in the rabies vaccine group. In both vaccine groups, gastroenteritis and pneumonia were the most frequently reported unsolicited AE. Fever was the most frequently observed solicited AE and was recorded after 11% of RTS,S/AS01(E) doses compared to 31% of doses of rabies vaccine. The candidate vaccine RTS,S/AS01(E) showed an acceptable safety profile in children living in a malaria-endemic area in East Africa. More data on the safety of RTS,S/AS01(E) will become available from the Phase 3 programme.

UI  - 21118927
TI  - Health workers' use of malaria rapid diagnostic tests (RDTs) to guide clinical decision making in rural dispensaries, Tanzania.
AB  - Rapid diagnostic tests (RDTs) were developed as an alternative to microscopy for malaria diagnosis. The RDTs detect malaria parasite antigen(s) in whole blood with high sensitivity and specificity. We assessed health worker malaria treatment practices after the introduction of RDTs in peripheral health facilities without microscopy. From December 2007 to October 2008, we introduced histidine-rich protein II (HRP-2)-based ParaHIT RDTs for routine use in 12 health facilities in Rufiji District, Tanzania. Health workers received training on how to perform RDTs for patients 5 years of age or older with fever or suspected malaria. Children < 5 years of age were to be treated empirically per national guidelines. Among the 30,195 patients seen at these 12 health facilities, 10,737 (35.6%) were tested with an RDT for malaria. 88.3% (9,405/10,648) of tested patients reported fever or history of fever and 2.7% (289/10,677) of all tested individuals were children < 5 years of age. The RDT results were recorded for 10,650 patients (99.2%). Among the 5,488 (51.5%) RDT-positive patients, 5,256 (98.6%) were treated with an appropriate first-line antimalarial per national guidelines (artemether-lumefantrine or quinine). Among the 5,162 RDT-negative patients, only 205 (4.0%) were treated with an antimalarial. Other reported treatments included antibiotics and antipyretics. Implementation of RDTs in rural health facilities resulted in high adherence to national treatment guidelines. Patients testing negative by RDT were rarely treated with antimalarials. Unapproved antimalarials were seldom used. Health workers continued to follow guidelines for the empiric treatment of febrile children.

UI  - 21118925
TI  - A phase III, randomized, non-inferiority trial to assess the efficacy and safety of dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine in comparison with artesunate-mefloquine in patients with uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in southern Laos.
AB  - We conducted an open, randomized clinical trial of oral dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine (DP) versus artesunate-mefloquine (AM) in 300 patients in Laos with uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria as part of a multicentre study in Asia. Survival analysis and adjustment for re-infection showed that the 63-day cure rates (95% confidence interval [CI]) were 100% for AM and 99.5% (96.4-99.8%) for DP. The 63-day cure rates per protocol were 99% (97 of 98) for AM and 99.5% (196 of 197) for DP (P = 0.55). The difference (AM minus DP) in cure rates (95% CI) was -0.5% (-5.1 to 2.0%), which is within the 5% non-inferiority margin. The median fever and parasite clearance times were also similar for AM and DP. The proportion of patients with at least one recorded potential adverse event was significantly higher in the AM group (38 of 87, 44%) than in the DP group (57 of 182, 31%) (relative risk = 0.6, 95% CI = 0.4-0.9; P = 0.04). Dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine is not inferior to AM in the treatment of uncomplicated P. falciparum malaria in Laos and is associated with fewer adverse effects. The results of this study were similar to those of the larger multicentre study.

UI  - 21092220
TI  - Early variations in plasmodium falciparum dynamics in Nigerian children after treatment with two artemisinin-based combinations: implications on delayed parasite clearance.
AB  - The study showed the high efficacy of AL and AA in Nigerian children. In addition the study demonstrated the mobilisation of asexual parasites from the deep to the periphery in the early hours of commencing ACT treatment in a subset of patients in both study groups. It is unclear whether the early parasite dynamics discovered in this study play any role in the development of drug resistance and thus it is important to further evaluate this discovery. It may be useful for studies investigating delay in parasite clearance of artemisinin derivatives as a way of monitoring the development of resistance to artemisinin to assess the early effects of the drugs on the parasites.

UI  - 21092137
TI  - Plasmodium falciparum clearance with artemisinin-based combination therapy (ACT) in patients with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency in Mali.
AB  - The presence of G6PD deficiency does not appear to significantly influence the clearance of P. falciparum in the treatment of uncomplicated malaria using ACT.

UI  - 21079803
TI  - Safety, immunogenicity and duration of protection of the RTS,S/AS02(D) malaria vaccine: one year follow-up of a randomized controlled phase I/IIb trial.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00197028.

UI  - 21078941
TI  - Limited ability of Plasmodium falciparum pfcrt, pfmdr1, and pfnhe1 polymorphisms to predict quinine in vitro sensitivity or clinical effectiveness in Uganda.
AB  - Quinine is a standard drug for treating severe malaria in Africa, and it is also increasingly used to treat uncomplicated disease. However, failures of quinine therapy are common, and it is unknown if failures in Africa are due to drug resistance. Recent studies have identified associations between in vitro quinine sensitivity and polymorphisms in genes encoding putative transporters, including well-described polymorphisms in pfcrt and pfmdr1 and varied numbers of DNNND or DDNHNDNHNND repeats in microsatellite 4760 (ms4760) of the predicted sodium-hydrogen exchanger, pfnhe1. To better characterize mediators of quinine response, we assessed associations between genetic polymorphisms, in vitro quinine sensitivity, and quinine treatment responses in Kampala, Uganda. Among 172 fresh clinical isolates tested in vitro, decreasing sensitivity to quinine was associated with accumulation of pfmdr1 mutations at codons 86, 184, and 1246. Nearly all parasites had pfcrt 76T, preventing analysis of associations with this mutation. pfnhe1 ms4760 was highly polymorphic. Parasites with 2 copies of either ms4760 repeat showed modest decreases in quinine sensitivity compared to those with 1 or 3 repeats, but the differences were not statistically significant. None of the above polymorphisms predicted treatment failure among 66 subjects treated with quinine for uncomplicated malaria. Our data suggest that quinine sensitivity is a complex trait and that known polymorphisms in pfcrt, pfmdr1, and pfnhe1, while associated with quinine sensitivity, are not robust markers for quinine resistance.

UI  - 21062666
TI  - Artesunate versus quinine in the treatment of severe falciparum malaria in African children (AQUAMAT): an open-label, randomised trial.
AB  - The Wellcome Trust.

UI  - 21061926
TI  - Symptom-based diagnosis of malaria and its implication on antimalarial drug use in pregnancy in Central Uganda: results from a community trial.
AB  - The results call for urgent strategies to identify effective diagnostic tools for malaria in pregnancy and to assess the negative effects of the over-use of antimalarial drugs in pregnancy.

UI  - 21056445
TI  - Is parasite clearance clinically important after malaria treatment in a high transmission area? A 3-month follow-up of home-based management with herbal medicine or ACT.
AB  - Argemone mexicana (AM), a validated herbal medicine for uncomplicated malaria, seems to prevent severe malaria without completely clearing parasites in most patients. This study, in a high transmission area of South Mali, explores whether residual parasitaemia at day 28 was associated with subsequent malaria episodes and/or anaemia. Three hundred and one patients were randomly assigned to AM or artesunate/amodiaquine as first line treatment, of whom 294 were followed up beyond the standard 28 days, to 84 days. From day 29 to day 84, there were no significant differences between treatment groups in new clinical episodes of uncomplicated malaria (0.33 vs 0.31 episodes/patient), severe malaria (< 6% per month of patients aged  5 years) or moderate anaemia (hematocrit < 24%: 1.1% in both groups at day 84). Total parasite clearance at day 28 was not correlated with incidence of uncomplicated or severe malaria or of moderate anaemia over the subsequent two months. Total parasite clearance at day 28 was not clinically important in the context of high transmission. If this finding can be confirmed, some antimalarials which are clinically effective but do not completely clear parasites could nevertheless be appropriate in high transmission areas. Such a policy could be tested as a way to delay resistance to artemisinin combination therapies.

UI  - 21048970
TI  - Influences of intermittent preventive treatment and persistent multiclonal Plasmodium falciparum infections on clinical malaria risk.
AB  - Molecular typing revealed effects of the intervention not detected by ordinary microscopy. Effective seasonal IPT temporarily reduced the prevalence and genetic diversity of P. falciparum infections. The reduced risk of malaria in children with multiclonal infections only seen in untreated children suggests that persistence of antigenically diverse P. falciparum infections is important for the maintenance of protective malaria immunity in high transmission settings.

UI  - 21042404
TI  - Plasmodium falciparum malaria challenge by the bite of aseptic Anopheles stephensi mosquitoes: results of a randomized infectivity trial.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00744133.

UI  - 21041485
TI  - Persistence of Plasmodium falciparum parasites in infected pregnant Mozambican women after delivery.
AB  - Pregnant women are susceptible to Plasmodium falciparum parasites that sequester in the placenta. The massive accumulation of infected erythrocytes in the placenta has been suggested to trigger the deleterious effects of malaria in pregnant women and their offspring. The risk of malaria is also high during the postpartum period, although mechanisms underlying this susceptibility are not known. Here, we aimed to identify host factors contributing to the risk of postpartum infections and to determine the origin of postpartum parasites by comparing their genotypes with those present at the time of delivery. To address this, blood samples were collected at delivery (n = 402) and postpartum (n = 354) from Mozambican women enrolled in a trial of intermittent preventive treatment in pregnancy (IPTp). P. falciparum was detected by real-time quantitative PCR (qPCR), and the parasite merozoite surface protein 1 (msp-1) and msp-2 genes were genotyped. Fifty-seven out of 354 (16%) women were infected postpartum as assessed by qPCR, whereas prevalence by optical microscopy was only 4%. Risk of postpartum infection was lower in older women (odds ratio [OR] = 0.34, 95% confidence interval [CI] = 0.15 to 0.81) and higher in women with a placental infection at delivery (OR = 4.20, 95% CI = 2.19 to 8.08). Among 24 women with matched infections, 12 (50%) were infected postpartum with at least one parasite strain that was also present in their placentas. These results suggest that parasites infecting pregnant women persist after delivery and increase the risk of malaria during the postpartum period. Interventions that reduce malaria during pregnancy may translate into a lower risk of postpartum infection.

UI  - 21040545
TI  - Directly-observed therapy (DOT) for the radical 14-day primaquine treatment of Plasmodium vivax malaria on the Thai-Myanmar border.
AB  - Adherence to the 14-day primaquine regimen is important for the radical cure of P. vivax malaria infection. Implementation of DOT reduces the reappearance rate of the parasite, and may subsequently decrease P. vivax transmission in the area.

UI  - 21040254
TI  - Laboratory malaria diagnostic capacity in health facilities in five administrative zones of Oromia Regional State, Ethiopia.
AB  - This is the first published report on malaria diagnostic capacity in Ethiopia. While our assessment indicated that malaria laboratory diagnosis was available in most facilities surveyed, we observed significant gaps in laboratory services which could significantly impact quality and accessibility of malaria diagnosis, including laboratory infrastructure, equipment, laboratory supplies and human resources.

UI  - 21036822
TI  - Social acceptability and durability of two different house screening interventions against exposure to malaria vectors, Plasmodium falciparum infection, and anemia in children in the Gambia, West Africa.
AB  - The social acceptability and durability of two house screening interventions were addressed using focus group discussions, questionnaires, indoor climate measurements, and durability surveys. Participants recognized that screening stopped mosquitoes (79-96%) and other insects (86-98%) entering their houses. These and other benefits were appreciated by significantly more recipients of full screening than users of screened ceilings. Full screened houses were 0.26C hotter at night (P = 0.05) than houses with screened ceilings and 0.51C (P < 0.001) hotter than houses with no screening (28.43C), though only 9% of full screened house users and 17% of screened ceiling users complained about the heat. Although 71% of screened doors and 85% of ceilings had suffered some damage after 12 months, the average number of holes of any size was < 5 for doors and < 7 for ceilings. In conclusion, house screening is a well-appreciated and durable vector control tool.

UI  - 21028985
TI  - Artemisinin resistance in Cambodia: a clinical trial designed to address an emerging problem in Southeast Asia.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov identifier NCT00479206.

UI  - 20976217
TI  - Cost-effectiveness of intermittent preventive treatment of malaria in pregnancy in southern Mozambique.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00209781.

UI  - 20976051
TI  - Efficacy, safety, and tolerability of three regimens for prevention of malaria: a randomized, placebo-controlled trial in Ugandan schoolchildren.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00852371.

UI  - 20964849
TI  - Artesunate-mefloquine combination therapy in acute Plasmodium falciparum malaria in young children: a field study regarding neurological and neuropsychiatric safety.
AB  - African children showed a low percentage of self-limited neurological and neuropsychiatric adverse events, confirming studies on neurological safety in Asian children treated with artesunate and mefloquine. Sleeping disorders were most frequently observed.

UI  - 20958888
TI  - The effects of a pre-season treatment with effective antimalarials on subsequent malaria morbidity in under five-year-old children living in high and seasonal malaria transmission area of Burkina Faso.
AB  - Our findings suggest that the radical clearance of parasitemia with AL may increase susceptibility to malaria infection and clinical malaria episodes.

UI  - 20932805
TI  - Efficacy and safety of artemether-lumefantrine compared with quinine in pregnant women with uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria: an open-label, randomised, non-inferiority trial.
AB  - Mdecins Sans Frontires and the European Commission.

UI  - 20929566
TI  - Improving educational achievement and anaemia of school children: design of a cluster randomised trial of school-based malaria prevention and enhanced literacy instruction in Kenya.
AB  - National Institutes of Health NCT00878007.

UI  - 20889882
TI  - Increased risk of early vomiting among infants and young children treated with dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine compared with artemether-lumefantrine for uncomplicated malaria.
AB  - Artemether-lumefantrine (AL) and dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine (DP) are highly efficacious antimalarial therapies in Africa. However, there are limited data regarding the tolerability of these drugs in young children. We used data from a randomized control trial in rural Uganda to compare the risk of early vomiting (within one hour of dosing) for children 6-24 months of age randomized to receive DP (n = 240) or AL (n = 228) for treatment of uncomplicated malaria. Overall, DP was associated with a higher risk of early vomiting than AL (15.1% versus 7.1%; P = 0.007). The increased risk of early vomiting with DP was only present among breastfeeding children (relative risk [RR] = 3.35, P = 0.001) compared with children who were not breastfeeding (RR = 1.03, P = 0.94). Age less than 18 months was a risk factor for early vomiting independent of treatment (RR = 3.27, P = 0.02). Our findings indicate that AL may be better tolerated than DP among young breastfeeding children treated for uncomplicated malaria.

UI  - 20889877
TI  - A comparison of iron and folate with folate alone in hematologic recovery of children treated for acute malaria.
AB  - Concern has been raised that iron supplementation for treatment of acute malaria may worsen the severity of malaria. We compared the effect of iron and folate with folate alone on hematologic recovery in children treated for acute malaria. We randomized 82 children 6-60 months of age from Nigeria with smear-positive malaria and anemia (hematocrit < 33%) to receive iron (2 mg/kg/day) plus folate (5 mg/day) or folate alone in addition to antimalarial drugs. The mean  SD hematocrit at baseline was 28.5%  2.9%. At four weeks, the mean hematocrit increased by 2.5%  1.6% in the iron plus folate group and by 1.4%  1.0% in the folate alone group (P = 0.001). Baseline hematocrit, iron supplementation, weight for height, and weekly meat intake were significant predictors of final hematocrit. The effect of iron was not significantly modified by baseline hematocrit, weekly meat intake, nutritional status, mother's education, sex, or age of the child. Iron supplementation improved hematologic recovery in children with malarial anemia.

UI  - 20888613
TI  - Spatiotemporal change and ecological modelling of malaria in Turkey by means of geographic information systems.
AB  - We described the spatiotemporal change of malaria (Plasmodium vivax) in Turkey over 34 years (1975-2008), and assessed the role of environmental variables in this change. We developed seven 5-year-period raster maps by using geo-referenced malaria case data from the centres of 81 provinces and the kriging method with a spherical variogram model in a geographic information systems (GIS) model. We also modelled malaria incidence in GIS by using our average malaria incidence raster map, and complementary spatial database including the raster map layers of 14 environmental variables. We chose linear regression analysis with backward method to investigate relationships among variables and develop a model. The model was run in GIS to obtain a model incidence raster map. We tested the reliability of the model map by residual statistics, and found the model map dependable. Five-year-period maps revealed that the distribution of malaria cases moved from the East Mediterranean region to the Southeast Anatolia region due to changing human activities. The latitude, minimum temperature, distance to seas and elevation variables were found to have significant impacts on malaria. Consequently, the model incidence map established a good background for early warning systems to predict epidemics of malaria following environmental changes.

UI  - 20877714
TI  - Community case management of fever due to malaria and pneumonia in children under five in Zambia: a cluster randomized controlled trial.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.govNCT00513500

UI  - 20858280
TI  - Impact of repeated four-monthly anthelmintic treatment on Plasmodium infection in preschool children: a double-blind placebo-controlled randomized trial.
AB  - Current controlled trials ISRCTN44215995.

UI  - 20850004
TI  - Comparison of artesunate and quinine in the treatment of Sudanese children with severe Plasmodium falciparum malaria.
AB  - Sixty-six children presenting to Singa hospital, Sudan with different manifestations of severe Plasmodium falciparum malaria were randomly divided into two well-matched groups (33 in each arm) to receive either intravenous artesunate 24 mg/kg at 0, 12, and 24 hours, then daily, or intravenous quinine 20mg/kg initially then 10mg/kg three times a day. There was no significant difference in the fever, parasite clearance, and coma resolution times. Three patients died, one in the artesunate and two in the quinine groups. One patient developed hypoglycaemia following quinine infusion. Thus, artesunate can be used for the treatment of severe falciparum malaria.

UI  - 20838642
TI  - Protective efficacy of intermittent preventive treatment of malaria in infants (IPTi) using sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine and parasite resistance.
AB  - A significant relationship was found between the frequency of the dhfr triple mutation and SP-IPTi protective efficacy at 35 days post the 9 month dose. An association between the protective efficacy to 12 months of age and dhfr triple and dhfr/dhps quintuple mutations was found but should be viewed with caution due to bias. It was not possible to define a more definite relationship based on the data available from these trials.

UI  - 20838432
TI  - MIG and the regulatory cytokines IL-10 and TGF-1 correlate with malaria vaccine immunogenicity and efficacy.
AB  - Malaria remains one of the world's greatest killers and a vaccine is urgently required. There are no established correlates of protection against malaria either for natural immunity to the disease or for immunity conferred by candidate malaria vaccines. The RTS,S/AS02A vaccine offers significant partial efficacy against malaria.mRNA expression of five key cytokines interferon-gamma (IFN-), monokine induced by gamma (MIG), interleukin-10 (IL-10), transforming growth factor- (TGF-) and forkhead box P3 (FoxP3) in peripheral blood mononuclear cells were measured by real-time RT-PCR before and after vaccination with RTS,S/AS02A and Modified Vaccinia virus Ankara encoding the circumsporozoite protein (MVA-CS) in healthy malaria-nave adult volunteers. The only significant change was in IFN- mRNA expression, which was increased seven days after vaccination (P = 0.04). Expression of MIG mRNA seven days after vaccination correlated inversely with time to detection of parasites by blood film in an experimental sporozoite challenge (r = 0.94 P = 0.005). An inverse relationship was seen between both TGF-1 and IL-10 mRNA at baseline and the anti-circumsporozoite IgG antibody response (r = -0.644 P = 0.022 and r = -0.554 P = 0.031 respectively). This study demonstrates the potential for MIG expression as a correlate of protection against malaria. Baseline levels of the regulatory cytokines TGF- and IL-10 inversely correlated with antibody levels post vaccination and warrant further studies to improve understanding of individual differences in response to vaccination.

UI  - 20834083
TI  - Comparative study of efficacy of artesunate plus cotrimoxazole and artesunate plus chloroquine in the treatment of malaria in Nigerian children: a preliminary report.
AB  - These results indicate that artesunate plus cotrimoxazole has similar efficacy to artesunate plus chloroquine in the treatment of acute uncomplicated P. falciparum malaria in children resident in an endemic area of south-west Nigeria.

UI  - 20834082
TI  - Comparison of quinine and rabeprazole with quinine monotherapy in the treatment of uncomplicated falciparum malaria.
AB  - The study results suggest that addition of rabeprazole to quinine regimen resulted in an increase in the parasite elimination rate, which may be helpful in reducing the duration of treatment and increasing patient compliance.

UI  - 20832366
TI  - Effectiveness of five artemisinin combination regimens with or without primaquine in uncomplicated falciparum malaria: an open-label randomised trial.
AB  - Mdecins sans Frontires (Holland) and the Wellcome Trust Mahidol University Oxford Tropical Medicine Research Programme.

UI  - 20810805
TI  - Malaria incidence and prevalence among children living in a peri-urban area on the coast of benin, west Africa: a longitudinal study.
AB  - Clinical malaria incidence was determined over 18 months in a cohort of 553 children living in a peri-urban area near Cotonou. Three cross-sectional surveys were also carried out. Malaria incidence showed a marked seasonal distribution with two peaks: the first corresponding to the long rainy season, and the second corresponding to the overflowing of Lake Nokoue. The overall Plasmodium falciparum incidence rate was estimated at 84/1,000 person-months, and its prevalence was estimated at over 40% in the two first surveys and 68.9% in the third survey. Multivariate analysis showed that girls and people living in closed houses had a lower risk of clinical malaria. Bed net use was associated with a lower risk of malaria infection. Conversely, children of families owing a pirogue were at higher risk of clinical malaria. Considering the high pyrethroids resistance, indoor residual spraying with either a carbamate or an organophospate insecticide may have a major impact on the malaria burden.

UI  - 20810804
TI  - Evaluation of recurrent parasitemia after artemether-lumefantrine treatment for uncomplicated malaria in children in western Kenya.
AB  - From April 2005 to April 2006, a phase 2 malaria vaccine trial in Kenya enrolled 400 children aged 12-47 months. Each received mixed supervised and unsupervised artemether-lumefantrine for uncomplicated malaria, using a standard six-dose regimen, by weight. Children were followed for detection of parasitemia and clinical malaria. A median of two negative malaria blood films occurred during every recurrent parasitemia (RP) episode, suggesting reinfection over late recrudescence. Median time to RP after starting artemether-lumefantrine was 37 days (36-38). Of 2,020 evaluable artemether-lumefantrine treatments, there were no RPs in 99% by day 14, 71% by day 28, and 41% by day 42. By World Health Organization standards, 71% of treatment courses had adequate responses. Although recrudescence in some cannot be ruled out, our cohort had a shorter median time to RP compared with other artemether-lumefantrine treatment studies. This underscores patient counseling on completing all treatment doses for optimal protection from RP.

UI  - 20809964
TI  - Safety of artemether-lumefantrine in pregnant women with malaria: results of a prospective cohort study in Zambia.
AB  - These data suggest that exposure to AL in pregnancy, including first trimester, is not associated with particular safety risks in terms of perinatal mortality, malformations, or developmental impairment. However, more data are required on AL use during the first trimester.

UI  - 20808923
TI  - Cost effectiveness of seasonal intermittent preventive treatment using amodiaquine & artesunate or sulphadoxine-pyrimethamine in Ghanaian children.
AB  - We demonstrate how cost-effective IPTc is using three different drug regimens and the possibilities for reducing costs further if the intervention was to be scaled up to the district level. The need for effective training, drug delivery channels and supervision to support a strong network of community based volunteers is emphasised.

UI  - 20796302
TI  - Multiplicity of Plasmodium falciparum infection following intermittent preventive treatment in infants.
AB  - IPTi-SP appears to have no impact on the multiplicity of infection during infancy and thereafter. This suggests that tolerance of multiple infections, a component of protective immunity in highly endemic areas, is not affected by this intervention.

UI  - 20738048
TI  - Artesunate suppositories: an option for severe malaria.
AB  - 

UI  - 20723228
TI  - Clinical and parasitological response to oral chloroquine and primaquine in uncomplicated human Plasmodium knowlesi infections.
AB  - Chloroquine plus primaqine is an inexpensive and highly effective treatment for uncomplicated knowlesi malaria infections in humans and there is no evidence of drug resistance. Further studies using alternative anti-malarial drugs, including artemisinin derivatives, would be desirable to define optimal management strategies for P. knowlesi.

UI  - 20713675
TI  - Population pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of artemether and lumefantrine during combination treatment in children with uncomplicated falciparum malaria in Tanzania.
AB  - The combination of artemether (ARM) and lumefantrine is currently the first-line treatment of uncomplicated falciparum malaria in mainland Tanzania. While the exposure to lumefantrine has been associated with the probability of adequate clinical and parasitological cure, increasing exposure to artemether and the active metabolite dihydroartemisinin (DHA) has been shown to decrease the parasite clearance time. The aim of this analysis was to describe the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of artemether, dihydroartemisinin, and lumefantrine in African children with uncomplicated malaria. In addition to drug concentrations and parasitemias from 50 Tanzanian children with falciparum malaria, peripheral parasite densities from 11 asymptomatic children were included in the model of the parasite dynamics. The population pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of artemether, dihydroartemisinin, and lumefantrine were modeled in NONMEM. The distribution of artemether was described by a two-compartment model with a rapid absorption and elimination through metabolism to dihydroartemisinin. Dihydroartemisinin concentrations were adequately illustrated by a one-compartment model. The pharmacokinetics of artemether was time dependent, with typical oral clearance increasing from 2.6 liters/h/kg on day 1 to 10 liters/h/kg on day 3. The pharmacokinetics of lumefantrine was sufficiently described by a one-compartment model with an absorption lag time. The typical value of oral clearance was estimated to 77 ml/h/kg. The proposed semimechanistic model of parasite dynamics, while a rough approximation of the complex interplay between malaria parasite and the human host, adequately described the early effect of ARM and DHA concentrations on the parasite density in malaria patients. However, the poor precision in some parameters illustrates the need for further data to support and refine this model.

UI  - 20702657
TI  - Safety and immunogenicity of a recombinant nonglycosylated erythrocyte binding antigen 175 Region II malaria vaccine in healthy adults living in an area where malaria is not endemic.
AB  - Erythrocyte binding antigen region II (EBA-175) is a conserved antigen of Plasmodium falciparum that is involved in binding of the parasite to the host's erythrocytes. We evaluated the safety and immunogenicity of a recombinant EBA-175 vaccine with aluminum phosphate adjuvant in healthy young adults living in the United States. Eighteen subjects/group received ascending doses (5, 20, 80, or 160 g) of the vaccine at 0, 1, and 6 months; 8 subjects received placebo. Most of the injection site and systemic reactions were mild to moderate in intensity. After 2 or 3 doses of the vaccine at any concentration, antibody levels measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay were significantly higher than those for the placebo group. Sera from subjects who received 3 doses of the vaccine at any concentration inhibited the growth of erythrocyte-stage P. falciparum at low levels compared to sera from placebo recipients or preimmune sera. In conclusion, the EBA-175 vaccine with adjuvant was safe and immunogenic in malaria-nave subjects.

UI  - 20696154
TI  - Safety and immunogenicity of the malaria vaccine candidate GMZ2 in malaria-exposed, adult individuals from Lambarn, Gabon.
AB  - Malaria is still one of the major public health threats in sub-Saharan Africa. An effective vaccine could be a sustainable control measure that can be integrated into existing health infrastructures. The malaria vaccine candidate GMZ2 is a recombinant fusion protein of conserved parts of Plasmodium falciparum Glutamate Rich Protein and Merozoite Surface Protein 3 adjuvanted with aluminium hydroxide. GMZ2 is immunogenic and well tolerated in malaria-naive adults from Germany. To assess safety and immunogenicity in malaria-exposed individuals, 40 adults from Lambarn, Gabon were randomly assigned to receive either 100 g GMZ2 or a rabies control vaccine three times in monthly intervals. Both vaccines were well tolerated. One month after a full course of vaccination, GMZ2-vaccinated individuals had 1.4-fold (95% confidence interval: [1.1, 1.7]) higher baseline-corrected anti-GMZ2 antibody levels and more GMZ2-specific memory B-cells compared to the rabies group (p=0.039), despite a high prevalence of GMZ2-specific immune reactivity due to previous intense exposure to P. falciparum.

UI  - 20694469
TI  - Sickle-cell disease and malaria: evaluation of seasonal intermittent preventive treatment with sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine in Senegalese patients-a randomized placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - Sickle-cell disease (SCD) patients are at high risk of developing malaria which is a major contributor to morbidity and mortality in this disease. In Senegal, malaria transmission is high during rainy season, between July and October, and it was noted that sickle-cell crisis are frequent during this period. Then we carried out a double-blind randomized controlled trial to compare the impact of monthly sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine (SP) during the high-transmission season versus placebo on malaria incidence and morbidity of sickle-cell anemia. Sixty (60) SCD patients were randomized either to receive three intermittent preventive treatment (ITP) with SP or placebo using the random permutation table with nine elements. The drug was administrated as follows: sulfadoxine 25 mg/kg and pyrimethamine 1.25 mg/kg and this treatment was given once during the following months: September, October, and November. Overall four episodes of malaria disease were diagnosed, all these cases in the placebo arm. Thus, overall prevalence was 6.6% and there was no other case of malaria in the SP arm during the study period. Parasitological diagnosis confirmed the presence of Plasmodium falciparum in all four cases. No patient death was encountered during the study. SP treatment was well tolerated as only one patient (1.6%) in the SP arm reported pruritus. A significant reduction of patients' complaints (p = 002) and blood requirements (p = 0.001) was noted in the SP group; whereas, no impact was observed on vaso-occlusive crisis and hospitalization occurrence. Malaria prophylaxis by monthly intake of SP during the transmission period of the parasite reduced the prevalence of malaria and was safe in SCD patients leaving in malaria endemic area.

UI  - 20691266
TI  - Randomized double-blind controlled Phase I/IIa trial to assess the efficacy of malaria vaccine PfCS102 to protect against challenge with P. falciparum.
AB  - The aim of this Phase I/IIa double-blind controlled trial was to test the efficacy of the sporozoite-based malaria vaccine PfCS 282-383 (PfCS102) to protect against Plasmodium falciparum parasitaemia. 16 volunteers were randomized to receive twice 30 g of PfCS102 formulated in Montanide ISA 720 or ISA 720 alone (control). Two weeks after 2nd immunization, volunteers were challenged using 5 infected mosquitoes. All vaccinees developed antibodies against PfCS102 versus none control. 8/8 vaccinees and 6/6 controls challenged developed malaria parasitaemia. The duration from infection to onset of patent parasitaemia was similar in both groups (214 h in vaccinees and 216 in controls). PfCS102 is safe and immunogenic but provides no protection against artificial challenge in its current formulation.

UI  - 20689585
TI  - Incidence of malaria and efficacy of combination antimalarial therapies over 4 years in an urban cohort of Ugandan children.
AB  - isrctn.org ISRCTN37517549.

UI  - 20689583
TI  - An open-label, randomised study of dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine versus artesunate-mefloquine for falciparum malaria in Asia.
AB  - Controlled-Trials.com ISRCTN81306618.

UI  - 20687837
TI  - Arterolane, a new synthetic trioxolane for treatment of uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria: a phase II, multicenter, randomized, dose-finding clinical trial.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov identifier NCT00362050.

UI  - 20683244
TI  - Use of area under the curve to evaluate the effects of antimalarial drugs on malaria-associated anemia after treatment.
AB  - To evaluate the effects of antimalarial drugs on Plasmodium falciparum malaria-associated anemia, we use the area under the curve (AUC) of anemia levels after treatment as an approach to combine their duration and magnitude. The method involves numeric estimation, by trapezoidal rule, of AUC from a plot of deficit in hematocrit levels from 30% (the lower threshold of normal) versus time in anemic children. Using the method, we evaluated, in randomized trials, the effects of artesunate-mefloquine versus mefloquine alone and artemether-lumefantrine versus amodiaquine-artesunate on the time course of recovery from malaria-associated anemia in 109 children. Anemia resolution times were similar (10.9  6.2 [standard deviation] versus 13.3  8.9 days, P = 0.2), but mean AUC was significantly lower in artesunate-mefloquine- compared with mefloquine-treated children (35.5  7.1 [standard error of mean] versus 49.8  11.3 %h, P = 0.02) indicating larger exposure to anemia in mefloquine-treated children. In artemether-lumefantrine- and amodiaquine-artesunate-treated children, both anemia resolution times (8.6  5.3 [standard deviation] versus 8.6  4.8 days, P = 0.98) and mean AUC (57.1  12.9 [standard error of mean] versus 46.3  8.7 %h, P = 0.74) were similar. Estimation of AUC appears more robust than estimation of anemia resolution time in evaluating antimalarial drug effects and can be used in both observational studies and clinical trials assessing the effects of therapies on malaria-associated anemia.

UI  - 20665369
TI  - Assessment of the short-term safety and tolerability of a quantified 80 % ethanol extract from the stem bark of Nauclea pobeguinii (PR 259 CT1) in healthy volunteers: a clinical phase I study.
AB  - The aim of this study was to evaluate the short-term safety and tolerability of an antimalarial herbal medicinal product (PR 259 CT1) consisting of a quantified 80 % ethanol extract from the stem bark of Nauclea pobeguinii when given orally to healthy adult male volunteers. The amount of the major alkaloid strictosamide in the extract was determined by a validated HPLC method and was shown to be 5.6 %. The herbal preparation was formulated in a gelatine capsule form containing 500 mg of PCR 259 CT1. A sample of 15 healthy male volunteers, selected using the Lot Quality Assurance of Sampling (LQAS) method, was eligible for inclusion after fulfillment of the inclusion criteria and clinical examination by a physician. The volunteers were treated in an outpatient clinic with a drug regimen of two 500 mg capsules three times daily (each eight hours) for seven days, during meals. Safety and tolerability were monitored clinically, haematologically, biochemically and by electrocardiographic (ECG) examination at days 0, 1, 3, 7 and 14. Adverse effects were recorded by self-reporting of the participants or by detection of abnormalities in clinical examinations by a physician. The oral administration of PR 259 CT1 at high doses of 2  500 mg/capsule/day for 7 days was found to induce no significant changes in the concentration levels of all investigated haematological, biochemical, electrocardiogram and vital sign parameters and physical characteristics after 14 days of treatment compared to those seen in the baseline data. The concentration levels of all evaluated parameters were within the normal limits as reported in the literature. All adverse events noted were mild and self-resolving including increase of appetite (33 %), headache (20 %) and nausea (20 %). Other minor side effects were insomnia, somnolence and asthenia (7 %). Thus, PR 259 CT1 presented a significant safety and tolerability in healthy volunteers to allow its further development by starting a phase II clinical trial.

UI  - 20659392
TI  - Dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine versus artemether-lumefantrine, in the treatment of uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in central Sudan.
AB  - Artemisinin-based combination therapies (ACT) are now being adopted as first-line treatments against uncomplicated malaria in sub-Saharan Africa. Between December 2009 and February 2010, the efficacies of two ACT - dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine (DHA-P) and artemether-lumefantrine (AL) - in the treatment of uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria were compared in Sinnar, central Sudan. Overall, 149 patients (75 given DHA-P and 74 given AL) completed the 28 days of follow-up. All the patients were found to be afebrile and aparasitaemic on day 3. By day 28, only one patient, who had been given AL, showed late treatment and parasitological failures, while each of the other 148 patients showed an adequate treatment response. After the results of a PCR-based assay confirmed that the recrudescent parasitaemia was probably the result of treatment failure, the frequencies of cure by day 28 were calculated as 100% for DHA-P and 98.7% for AL (P>0.05). None of the patients was found gametocytaemic during the follow-up, and the adverse effects observed were mild (nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, dizziness and/or rash), resolved spontaneously and occurred in only five patients in each treatment arm. Thus, both treatments appeared effective and safe for the treatment of uncomplicated P. falciparum malaria in central Sudan, although treatment with DHA-P (which requires a simpler dosing regimen) might be preferred to treatment with AL.

UI  - 20616970
TI  - Community-directed interventions for priority health problems in Africa: results of a multicountry study.
AB  - The CDI strategy, which builds upon the core principles of primary health care, is an effective and efficient model for integrated delivery of appropriate health interventions at the community level in Africa.

UI  - 20595477
TI  - Intravenous ibuprofen (IV-ibuprofen) controls fever effectively in adults with acute uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria but prolongs parasitemia.
AB  - Because some febrile patients are unable to swallow or retain oral antipyretic drugs, we carried out a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial in which intravenous ibuprofen (IV-ibuprofen) was given to adults hospitalized with fever associated with acute uncomplicated falciparum malaria treated with oral artesunate plus mefloquine. Thirty patients received IV-ibuprofen 400 mg and 30 received placebo every 6 hours for 72 hours. Reduction in the area above 37.0 degrees C versus time curve was significantly greater for IV-ibuprofen than for placebo during the first 72 hours after first administration. No patients developed severe malaria; parasite clearance was delayed in the patients whose fevers were controlled by IV-ibuprofen (median 37.3 hours versus 23.7 hours in the placebo group [P = 0.0024]). This difference did not appear to be clinically important Adverse events, none considered severe, occurred equally in both groups. IV-ibuprofen was effective and well tolerated in reducing fever in febrile inpatients with malaria.

UI  - 20578447
TI  - Early diagnosis and treatment of falciparum malaria in Cambodian trauma patients.
AB  - Asymptomatically infected patients with falciparum malaria may develop symptomatic malaria infection secondary to injury or surgery. This complication increases the risk for postoperative wound infection and adds to the burden of trauma. The aims of the present study were to investigate the preventive effect of early antimalaria treatment of Plasmodium falciparum infected trauma patients, and to study the validity and accuracy of a rapid test to identify those infected. An open, non-randomized, interventional multi-center, cohort study was carried out at six district hospitals in northwestern Cambodia. Two hundred twenty-two trauma patients was examined for P. falciparum by dipstick test soon after injury. The patients testing positive were immediately treated with artesunate-mefloquine. A subset of 108 patients from Pailin, an area considered highly endemic for falciparum malaria, was used for the main analysis. Of 28 P. falciparum rapid test-positives, 21 developed symptomatic postinjury malaria despite early antimalarial treatment. The agreement between the dipstick test and blood smear examination was good (kappa 92.5; 95% CI 84.5-100). Early pre-operative treatment of parasite carriers does not seem to prevent symptomatic malaria after injury and surgery. The rapid test for falciparum malaria was reliable in early identification of asymptomatic P. falciparum infected patients.

UI  - 20574541
TI  - Prevention of the recurrence of anaemia in Gambian children following discharge from hospital.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00131716.

UI  - 20574538
TI  - A randomised trial to compare the safety, tolerability and efficacy of three drug combinations for intermittent preventive treatment in children.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00561899.

UI  - 20565971
TI  - Lack of allele-specific efficacy of a bivalent AMA1 malaria vaccine.
AB  - This Phase 2 trial of a bivalent AMA1 malaria vaccine found no evidence of vaccine selection or strain-specific efficacy, suggesting that the extreme genetic diversity of AMA1 did not account for failure of the vaccine to provide protection.

UI  - 20557237
TI  - Azithromycin combination therapy for the treatment of uncomplicated falciparum malaria in Bangladesh: an open-label randomized, controlled clinical trial.
AB  - Our data suggest that azithromycin-artesunate is an efficacious and well-tolerated treatment for patients with uncomplicated falciparum malaria in Bangladesh.

UI  - 20547795
TI  - New fixed-dose artesunate-mefloquine formulation against multidrug-resistant Plasmodium falciparum in adults: a comparative phase IIb safety and pharmacokinetic study with standard-dose nonfixed artesunate plus mefloquine.
AB  - A new fixed-dose artesunate (AS)-mefloquine (MQ) was assessed in adults hospitalized for 28 days with uncomplicated drug-resistant falciparum malaria. The patients (n = 25/arm) were treated with (i) two fixed-dose tablets (AS-MQ arm; 100 mg AS-200 mg MQ/tablet) daily for 3 days (days 0, 1, and 2) or (ii) nonfixed AS (AS-plus-MQ arm; 4 mg/kg of body weight/day for 3 days) plus MQ (15 mg/kg on day 1 and 10 mg/kg on day 2), dosed by weight. Clinical laboratory electrocardiogram (ECG), adverse events (AEs), efficacy, and pharmacokinetic parameters were assessed over 28 days. Both regimens were well tolerated. No AEs were drug related. Two serious AEs of malaria-induced hypotension occurring in the AS-MQ arm necessitated rescue treatment. There were no significant changes in hematology, biochemistry, or PR and QRS intervals. For all patients, mean Fridericia-corrected QT intervals were significantly (P < or = 0.0027) prolonged on day 3 (407 ms) and day 7 (399 ms) versus day 0 (389 ms), in parallel with significant (P < or = 0.0003) falls in heart rates (67 [day 3], 73 [day 7], and 83 [day 0] beats/minute). Fixed-nonfixed formulations were bioequivalent for MQ, but not for AS and dihydroartemisinin (DHA). One AS-MQ patient developed a new infection on day 28; his day 28 plasma MQ concentration was 503.8 ng/ml. Fixed-dose AS-MQ was well tolerated, had pharmacokinetic (PK) profiles broadly similar to those of nonfixed AS plus MQ, and is a suitable replacement.

UI  - 20543656
TI  - Acute HIV-1 infection is highly prevalent in Ugandan adults with suspected malaria.
AB  - At multiple sites in Uganda, 1-3% of adults with suspected malaria had acute or early HIV infection. These findings highlight a major opportunity for expanding recognition of acute and early HIV infection in Africa.

UI  - 20526196
TI  - Phase II trial on the use of Dextran 70 or starch for supportive therapy in Kenyan children with severe malaria.
AB  - Correction of shock by volume expansion with either Dextran 70 or hydroxyethyl starch in children with severe malaria acidosis is safe with low mortality, including the highest risk cases admitted in coma. Both solutions present an attractive and practical option for consideration in future volume resuscitation trials in severe malaria.

UI  - 20519597
TI  - Tolerability and efficacy of a pediatric granule formulation of artesunate-mefloquine in young children from Cameroon with uncomplicated falciparum malaria.
AB  - A fixed-dose pediatric formulation of artesunate and mefloquine (Artequin Pediatric) has been developed. In this open, non-comparative study in Cameroonian children with uncomplicated falciparum malaria, the safety and efficacy of this formulation was tested, with a particular emphasis on the risk of neuropsychiatric adverse events (AEs). In total, 220 subjects, weighing between 10 and 20 kg, were enrolled; 213 qualified for analysis. Artesunate-mefloquine was given once daily for 3 days. Overall, 13.1% of patients reported mild to moderate neuropsychiatric AEs (elicited through a structured questionnaire or reported spontaneously) out of which 3.8% (mainly insomnia) were considered drug-related. Other drug-related AEs were infrequent (< 3%). Polymerase chain reaction-corrected cure rate (adequate clinical and parasitological response) determined by survival analysis at 28 and 63 days was 96.6%. New infections were observed in 11.2% of evaluable patients at 63 days. The new formulation was well tolerated and efficacious in the population investigated.

UI  - 20493274
TI  - Evidences of protection against blood-stage infection of Plasmodium falciparum by the novel protein vaccine SE36.
AB  - An effective malaria vaccine is a public health priority. Proteins expressed during the blood-stage of the parasite life cycle have been proposed as good vaccine candidates. No such blood-stage vaccine, however, is available against Plasmodium falciparum, the deadliest Plasmodium species. We show here that P. falciparum serine repeat antigen 5 (SERA5) is a potential vaccine immunogen. We have constructed a new recombinant molecule of SERA5, namely SE36, based on previously reported SE47' molecule by removing the serine repeats. Epidemiological study in the holo-endemic population of Solomon Islands shows highly significant correlation of sero-conversion and malaria protective immunity against this antigen. Animal experiments using non-human primates, and a human phase 1a clinical trial assessed SE36 vaccine immunogenicity. Vaccination of squirrel monkeys with SE36 protein and aluminum hydroxyl gel (SE36/AHG) conferred protection against high parasitemia and boosted serum anti-SE36 IgG after P. falciparum parasite challenge. SE36/AHG was highly immunogenic in chimpanzees, where serum anti-SE36 IgG titers last more than one year. Phase 1a clinical trial (current controlled trials, ISRCTN78679862) demonstrated the safety and immunogenicity of SE36/AHG with 30 healthy adults and 10 placebo controls. Three subcutaneous administrations of 50 and 100microg dose of SE36/AHG were well-tolerated, with no severe adverse events; and resulted in 100% sero-conversion in both dose arms. The current research results for SE36/AHG provide initial clinical validation for future trials and suggest clues/strategies for further vaccine development.

UI  - 20482251
TI  - Effect of ivermectin on Anopheles gambiae mosquitoes fed on humans: the potential of oral insecticides in malaria control.
AB  - Anopheles gambiae mosquitoes were fed on 25 volunteers randomized to receive ivermectin or nothing. In mosquitoes feeding on volunteers given ivermectin the previous day, mean survival was 2.3 days, compared with 5.5 days in the control group (P < .001, by log-lank test). Mosquito mortality was 73%, 84%, and 89% on days 2, 3, and 4 in the ivermectin group. In mosquitoes fed 14 days after treatment, no difference was found between groups. Ivermectin is safe and has significant short-term insecticidal properties. A systemic insecticide taken by humans could help to control malaria in areas where mosquitoes are exophagic or exophilic and drug resistance is an urgent threat.

UI  - 20465990
TI  - Wash-resistance and field evaluation of alphacypermethrin treated long-lasting insecticidal net (Interceptor) against malaria vectors Anopheles culicifacies and Anopheles fluviatilis in a tribal area of Orissa, India.
AB  - A field trial was conducted on the efficacy of Interceptor nets-a long-lasting insecticidal net (LLN) factory treated with alphacypermethrin 0.667% (w/w) corresponding to 200mg/m(2), against malaria vectors Anopheles culicifacies and Anopheles fluviatilis in one of the highly endemic areas of Orissa. The study area comprised 19 villages which were randomized into three clusters and designated as Interceptor net cluster, untreated net cluster, and no net cluster. Baseline studies showed that both the vector species An. culicifacies and An. fluviatilis were 100% susceptible to alphacypermethrin. Results of wash-resistance and bio-efficacy of Interceptor nets showed 100% mortality in An. culicifacies and An. fluviatilis even after 20 washings. Bioassays on the Interceptor nets while in use in the field conditions showed a knockdown effect on 70-90% mosquitoes during different months of intervention after 3 min of exposure and 100% mortality was recorded after 24h of recovery period. The median knockdown time for these species ranged between 4.10-5.25 min and 4.00-5.00 min respectively during intervention period. In Interceptor net study area, there was a significant reduction of 88.9, 96.3 and 90.6% in the entry rate of An. culicifacies, An. fluviatilis and other anopheline species respectively with an over all reduction of 87.5% in total mosquitoes. The overall feeding success rate of mosquitoes in the trial villages was only 12.8% in comparison to 35.0 and 78.8% in villages with untreated nets and no nets respectively. A significant reduction was also recorded in parity rate and human blood index of vector species in Interceptor net area. The results of the study showed that Interceptor nets are effective against the malaria vectors and may be used as a suitable intervention strategy in high-risk areas.

UI  - 20459742
TI  - Effect of training on the use of long-lasting insecticide-treated bed nets on the burden of malaria among vulnerable groups, south-west Ethiopia: baseline results of a cluster randomized trial.
AB  - The availability and utilization of LLITN was low in the study area. The prevalence of malaria and anaemia was high. Intervention strategies of malaria should focus on high risk population and vulnerable groups.

UI  - 20439954
TI  - Community effectiveness of intermittent preventive treatment for infants (IPTi) in rural southern Tanzania.
AB  - Intermittent preventive treatment of malaria in infants (IPTi) with sulphadoxine-pyrimethamine shows evidence of efficacy in individually randomized, controlled trials. In a large-scale effectiveness study, IPTi was introduced in April 2005 by existing health staff through routine contacts in 12 randomly selected divisions out of 24 in 6 districts of rural southern Tanzania. Coverage and effects on malaria and anemia were estimated through a representative survey in 2006 with 600 children aged 2-11 months. Coverage of IPTi was 47-76% depending on the definition. Using an intention to treat analysis, parasitemia prevalence was 31% in intervention and 38% in comparison areas (P = 0.06). In a "per protocol" analysis of children who had recently received IPTi, parasite prevalence was 22%, 19 percentage points lower than comparison children (P = 0.01). IPTi can be implemented on a large scale by existing health service staff, with a measurable population effect on malaria, within 1 year of launch.

UI  - 20423479
TI  - Field efficacy of a new mosaic long-lasting mosquito net (PermaNet 3.0) against pyrethroid-resistant malaria vectors: a multi centre study in Western and Central Africa.
AB  - The use of combination nets for malaria control offers promising prospects. However, further investigations are needed to demonstrate the benefits of using PermaNet 3.0 for the control of pyrethroid resistant mosquito populations in Africa.

UI  - 20419161
TI  - Oral activated charcoal prevents experimental cerebral malaria in mice and in a randomized controlled clinical trial in man did not interfere with the pharmacokinetics of parenteral artesunate.
AB  - Controlled-Trials.com ISRCTN64793756.

UI  - 20417857
TI  - Efficacy and safety of a fixed-dose oral combination of pyronaridine-artesunate compared with artemether-lumefantrine in children and adults with uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria: a randomised non-inferiority trial.
AB  - Shin Poong Pharmaceutical and the Medicines for Malaria Venture.

UI  - 20409302
TI  - Dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine versus chloroquine to treat vivax malaria in Afghanistan: an open randomized, non-inferiority, trial.
AB  - Chloroquine remains an efficacious treatment for the treatment of vivax malaria in Afghanistan. In a setting where radical therapy cannot be administered, dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine provides additional benefit in terms of post-treatment prophylaxis, reducing the incidence of recurrence from 4-8 weeks after treatment.

UI  - 20398339
TI  - Randomized controlled trial of artesunate or artemether in Vietnamese adults with severe falciparum malaria.
AB  - Intramuscular artesunate may be superior to intramuscular artemether for the treatment of severe malaria in adults.

UI  - 20377593
TI  - Malaria: looking for selection signatures in the human PKLR gene region.
AB  - The genetic component of susceptibility to malaria is both complex and multigenic and the better-known protective polymorphisms are those involving erythrocyte-specific structural proteins and enzymes. In vivo and in vitro data have suggested that pyruvate kinase deficiency, which causes a nonspherocytic haemolytic anaemia, could be protective against malaria severity in humans, but this hypothesis remains to be tested. In the present study, we conducted a combined analysis of Short Tandem Repeats (STRs) and Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms (SNPs) in the pyruvate kinase-encoding gene (PKLR) and adjacent regions (chromosome 1q21) to look for malaria selective signatures in two sub-Saharan African populations from Angola and Mozambique, in several groups with different malaria infection outcome. A European population from Portugal, including a control and a pyruvate kinase-deficient group, was used for comparison. Data from STR and SNP loci spread along the PKLR gene region showed a considerably higher differentiation between African and Portuguese populations than that usually found for neutral markers. In addition, a wider region showing strong linkage disequilibrium was found in an uncomplicated malaria group, and a haplotype was found to be associated with this clinical group. Altogether, this data suggests that malaria selective pressure is acting in this genomic region.

UI  - 20374561
TI  - Efficacy of methylene blue monotherapy in semi-immune adults with uncomplicated falciparum malaria: a controlled trial in Burkina Faso.
AB  - MB acts slowly against the blood stages of P. falciparum. MB alone needs to be given for at least 7 days to be efficacious in the treatment of falciparum malaria but should be used in combination with a fast acting antimalarial.

UI  - 20368815
TI  - Intermittent preventive treatment in infants for the prevention of malaria in rural Western kenya: a randomized, double-blind placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - These results support the view that IPTi with long-acting regimens provide protection against clinical malaria for up to 8 weeks even in the presence of high ITN coverage, and that the prophylactic rather than the treatment effect of IPTi appears central to its protective efficacy.

UI  - 20368402
TI  - Population pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamic considerations of amodiaquine and desethylamodiaquine in Kenyan adults with uncomplicated malaria receiving artesunate-amodiaquine combination therapy.
AB  - Amodiaquine (AQ) is an antimalarial drug that was frequently combined with artesunate (AS) for the treatment of uncomplicated malaria due to Plasmodium falciparum and is now available as a fixed-dose combination. Despite its widespread use, the simultaneous pharmacokinetics in patients of AQ and its active metabolite, desethylamodiaquine (DAQ), were not characterized to date. The pharmacokinetics of AQ and DAQ in 54 adult patients receiving the AS/AQ combination were therefore investigated by the use of a population approach. AQ followed a 1-compartment model with first-order absorption and elimination, as well as a first-order and irreversible transformation into DAQ, which in turn followed a 2-compartment model with first-order elimination from its central compartment. The mean AQ apparent clearance and distribution volume were 3,410 liters/h and 39,200 liters, respectively. The mean terminal elimination half-life of DAQ was 211 h. Body weight was found to explain the interindividual variability of the apparent volume of distribution of AQ and the elimination rate constant of DAQ. A new dosage form consisting of a fixed-dose combination of AS and AQ was found to have no effect on the pharmacokinetic parameters of AQ and DAQ. All patients achieved parasite clearance within 4 days following the initiation of the treatment, which prevented investigation of the possible relationship between DAQ exposure and treatment outcome. This study provided the first simultaneous pharmacokinetic model for AQ and DAQ.

UI  - 20361381
TI  - Efficacy and safety of a new pediatric artesunate-mefloquine drug formulation for the treatment of uncomplicated falciparum malaria in Gabon.
AB  - Pediatric drug formulations of artemisinin combination therapies are urgently needed for improving the treatment of children suffering from uncomplicated malaria. The aim of this clinical trial was to evaluate the efficacy, safety and tolerability of a novel pediatric fixed-dose granule formulation of artesunate-mefloquine and a new co-blister tablet formulation. A total of 71 children aged 1-13 years suffering from uncomplicated falciparum malaria were stratified into two groups according to weight: 10-20 kg, pediatric group (n = 41); 20-40 kg, tablet group (n = 30). All the children were treated once daily for three days: the pediatric group received the novel granule formulation, the tablet group received the co-blister tablets. The PCR-corrected cure rate on day 28 was evaluated. There was no reappearance of parasitemia during the follow-up period and the day-28 cure rate was therefore 100% in per-protocol analysis. In intention-to-treat analysis the cure rates were 95% in the pediatric group and 97% in the tablet group. The most frequent adverse events were vomiting (17%), abdominal pain (11%) and headache (17%). This study confirms the excellent efficacy and favorable safety and tolerability profile of a novel pediatric artesunate-mefloquine formulation for treatment in African children.

UI  - 20350194
TI  - Efficacy and safety of mefloquine, artesunate, mefloquine-artesunate, and praziquantel against Schistosoma haematobium: randomized, exploratory open-label trial.
AB  - Current Controlled Trials identifier: ISRCTN06498763.

UI  - 20348496
TI  - A comparison of two short-course primaquine regimens for the treatment and radical cure of Plasmodium vivax malaria in Thailand.
AB  - Thai adult males (N = 85) with acute Plasmodium vivax malaria and normal glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase screening were randomized to receive 30 mg or 60 mg primaquine daily for 7 days (N = 43 and 42, respectively). The regimens were well tolerated and all patients recovered fully. Median fever clearance (47 hours; range 4 to 130 hours), mean + or - SD parasite clearance times (87.7 + or - 25.3 hours), gametocyte clearance, and adverse effects were similar in the 2 groups. Two patients, 1 from each group, had a 30% reduction in hematocrit. The cumulative 28 day relapse rate (95% confidence interval) by Kaplan Meier survival analysis was 29% (16-49%) in the 30 mg group compared with 7% (2-24%) in the 60 mg group; P = 0.027. Comparison with previous data obtained at this same site suggests that the recurrences comprised approximately 17% recrudescences and 12% relapses in the 30 mg/day group compared with 3% recrudescences and 4% relapses in the 60 mg/day group. These data suggest that the dose-response relationships for primaquine's asexual stage and hypnozoitocidal activities in-vivo are different. A 1 week course of primaquine 60 mg daily is an effective treatment of vivax malaria in this region.

UI  - 20348494
TI  - Treatment with coartem (artemether-lumefantrine) in Papua New Guinea.
AB  - A recent drug efficacy trial reported Coartem (artemether-lumefantrine) to be highly effective against Plasmodium falciparum in children less than 5 years of age in Papua New Guinea (PNG). In contrast, we have observed high levels of treatment failures in non-trial conditions in a longitudinal cohort study in the same age group in PNG. Recrudescences were confirmed by genotyping of three different marker genes to provide optimal discrimination power between parasite clones. After excluding genetic host factors by genotyping potentially relevant cytochrome P450 loci, the high number of treatment failures in our study is best explained by poor adherence to complex dosing regimens in combination with insufficient fat supplementation, which are both crucial parameters for the outcome of Coartem treatment. In contrast to the situation in classic drug trials with ideal treatment conditions, our field survey highlights potential problems with unsupervised usage of Coartem in routine clinical practice and under program conditions.

UI  - 20334677
TI  - Evaluation of Interceptor long-lasting insecticidal nets in eight communities in Liberia.
AB  - Interceptor((R)) LLINs are effective and desirable in rural communities in Liberia. Consideration for end user preferences should be incorporated into product development of all LLINs in the future, in order to achieve optimum retention and utilization.

UI  - 20230885
TI  - Taste-masked quinine pamoate tablets for treatment of children with uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria.
AB  - Fast-dispersible and taste-masked quinine pamoate tablets improved dosing accuracy, allowed easy administration and resulted in a high efficacy during the treatment of children with uncomplicated malaria.

UI  - 20227096
TI  - Entomological survey and report of a knockdown resistance mutation in the malaria vector Anopheles gambiae from the Republic of Guinea.
AB  - The purpose of our entomological survey was to estimate mosquito biodiversity, infectivity rates and insecticide resistance levels in Anopheles species in four study sites in a mining area with high malaria transmission in southeastern Guinea. Anopheles gambiae s.l. (77%) was the most common Anopheles collected followed by An. funestus (20%). The specimens of the An. gambiae complex were predominantly An. gambiae S form (97.6%) with 1.4% of An. gambiae M form found in Krouan only, and 1% of An. arabiensis which was present in all four study sites. Anopheles gambiae S form and An. funestus were found to be infected with Plasmodium falciparum, with infectivity rates of 4.1% and 4.4% and inoculation rates of 0.60 and 0.19 infected bite/person/night, respectively. In addition, a high level (79%) of the knockdown resistance (kdr) L1014F mutation was reported in the populations of An. gambiae S form. The high malaria transmission that occurs in the prospected area of Guinea requires a long-term vector control programme. However, such a control programme will have to consider the presence of the kdr gene at a surprisingly high level within the dominant vector, which could reduce the expected impact of vector control.

UI  - 20214761
TI  - Efficacy and tolerability of artesunate-amodiaquine (Camoquin plus) versus artemether-lumefantrine (Coartem) against uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria: multisite trial in Senegal and Ivory Coast.
AB  - This study demonstrates the efficacy and tolerability of AS + AQ for uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria treatment in African patients over the age of 7 years.

UI  - 20212335
TI  - The effect of point mutations in dihydrofolate reductase genes and multidrug resistance gene 1-86 on treatment of falciparum malaria in Sudan.
AB  - The research provides the evidence that mutations present in dhfr and mdr1 86 has a significant effect on the type of treatment following SP and AQ chemotherapy. SP resistance may spread rapidly, and AS + AQ is likely to be a better option, provided AQ use is restricted to the combination. The significance of the study shows that definitely combination of drugs improves SP therapy at the study site.

UI  - 20209126
TI  - Duration of protection against clinical malaria provided by three regimens of intermittent preventive treatment in Tanzanian infants.
AB  - Clinicaltrials.gov NCT00158574.

UI  - 20207689
TI  - Rapid testing for malaria in settings where microscopy is available and peripheral clinics where only presumptive treatment is available: a randomised controlled trial in Ghana.
AB  - Where microscopy already exists, introducing rapid diagnostic tests had limited impact on prescriber behaviour. In settings where microscopy was not available, however, using rapid diagnostic tests led to a significant reduction in the overprescription of antimalarials, without any evidence of clinical harm, and to better targeting of antibiotics. Trial registration ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00493922.

UI  - 20195472
TI  - Malaria prevention with IPTp during pregnancy reduces neonatal mortality.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00209781.

UI  - 20195369
TI  - Population hemoglobin mean and anemia prevalence in Papua New Guinea: new metrics for defining malaria endemicity?
AB  - In PNG, where Plasmodium vivax accounts for an important part of all malaria infections, population hemoglobin mean and anemia prevalence correlate well with altitude, parasite, and spleen rates. Hb measurement is simple and affordable, and may be a useful new tool, alone or in association with other metrics, for estimating malaria endemicity and monitoring effectiveness of malaria control programs. Further prospective studies in areas with different malaria epidemiology and different factors contributing to the burden of anemia are warranted to investigate the usefulness of Hb metrics in monitoring malaria transmission intensity.
