
UI  - 25075853
TI  - Dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine failure in Cambodia.
AB  - 

UI  - 25075834
TI  - Spread of artemisinin resistance in Plasmodium falciparum malaria.
AB  - Artemisinin resistance to P. falciparum, which is now prevalent across mainland Southeast Asia, is associated with mutations in kelch13. Prolonged courses of artemisinin-based combination therapies are currently efficacious in areas where standard 3-day treatments are failing. (Funded by the U.K. Department of International Development and others; ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT01350856.).

UI  - 25075833
TI  - Spiroindolone KAE609 for falciparum and vivax malaria.
AB  - KAE609, at dose of 30 mg daily for 3 days, cleared parasitemia rapidly in adults with uncomplicated P. vivax or P. falciparum malaria. (Funded by Novartis and others; ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT01524341.).

UI  - 24948695
TI  - Rapid diagnostic tests to improve treatment of malaria and other febrile illnesses: patient randomised effectiveness trial in primary care clinics in Afghanistan.
AB  - In South and central Asian regions of low to moderate malaria transmission where clinics lack capacity for diagnosis with rapid diagnostic tests or microscopy, the introduction of the tests should be considered to improve clinical care, reduce the overuse of antimalarials, and improve disease surveillance.

UI  - 24615137
TI  - Pharmacokinetics of artesunate alone and in combination with sulfadoxine/pyrimethamine in healthy Sudanese volunteers.
AB  - Artesunate (AS) in combination with sulfadoxine/pyrimethamine (SP) is the first-line therapy for management of uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in Sudan. The objective of this study was to assess the potential impact of SP on the pharmacokinetics of AS and its active metabolite, dihydroartemisinin (DHA), in healthy adults. A single-dose, randomized, open-label, crossover study design with a washout period of three weeks was performed with 16 volunteers. After oral administration of AS alone or in combination with SP, Tmax values of AS and DHA were significantly prolonged in the combination group (P < 0.05). However, there was no significant effect on the other pharmacokinetic parameters (P > 0.05). The t1/2 values of AS and DHA were significantly higher in females than in males (P < 0.05). The present findings suggest that co-administration of SP with AS has no clinically relevant impact on the pharmacokinetics of AS or DHA in healthy persons.

UI  - 24615132
TI  - Impact of mass azithromycin distribution on malaria parasitemia during the low-transmission season in Niger: a cluster-randomized trial.
AB  - We assessed the effect of mass azithromycin treatment on malaria parasitemia in a trachoma trial in Niger. Twenty-four study communities received treatment during the wet, high-transmission season. Twelve of the 24 communities were randomized to receive an additional treatment during the dry, low-transmission season. Outcome measurements were conducted at the community-level in children < 1-72 months of age in May-June 2011. Parasitemia was higher in the 12 once-treated communities (29.8%, 95% confidence interval [CI] = 21.5-40.0%) than in the 12 twice-treated communities (19.5%, 95% CI = 13.0-26.5%, P = 0.03). Parasite density was higher in once-treated communities (354 parasites/L, 95% CI = 117-528 parasites/L) than in twice-treated communities (74 parasites/L, 95% CI = 41-202 parasites/L, P = 0.03). Mass distribution of azithromycin reduced malaria parasitemia 4-5 months after the intervention. The results suggest that drugs with antimalaria activity can have long-lasting impacts on malaria during periods of low transmission.

UI  - 24494602
TI  - Effectiveness of artesunate-amodiaquine vs. artemether-lumefantrine for the treatment of uncomplicated falciparum malaria in Nanoro, Burkina Faso: a non-inferiority randomised trial.
AB  - Despite a lower cure rate than those reported in efficacy studies in which the treatment administration was directly observed, both AL and ASAQ can still be used for the treatment of uncomplicated malaria in Burkina Faso.

UI  - 24378018
TI  - Acceptability by community health workers in Senegal of combining community case management of malaria and seasonal malaria chemoprevention.
AB  - Combining CCMm and SMC is a well accepted, community-based approach that can contribute to control malaria in areas where malaria transmission is seasonal.

UI  - 24376273
TI  - Delayed hemolysis after treatment with parenteral artesunate in African children with severe malaria--a double-center prospective study.
AB  - Pan-African Clinical Trials Registry: PACTR201102000277177 (www.pactr.org).

UI  - 24360369
TI  - Tafenoquine plus chloroquine for the treatment and relapse prevention of Plasmodium vivax malaria (DETECTIVE): a multicentre, double-blind, randomised, phase 2b dose-selection study.
AB  - GlaxoSmithKline, Medicines for Malaria Venture.

UI  - 24334945
TI  - Efficacy of artemisinin combination therapy for the treatment of uncomplicated falciparum malaria in Nigerian children.
AB  - Five years after being introduced in Nigeria, both Coartem and Larimal have been shown to be safe and highly effective in the treatment of uncomplicated P. falciparum malaria in children.

UI  - 24309414
TI  - Supportive supervision: an effective intervention in achieving high quality malaria case management at primary health care level in Jos, Nigeria.
AB  - This study has demonstrated that supportive supervision is a feasible and practicable tool in improving knowledge and practice of malaria case management among PHC workers.

UI  - 24296325
TI  - Feasibility, safety and effectiveness of combining home based malaria management and seasonal malaria chemoprevention in children less than 10 years in Senegal: a cluster-randomised trial.
AB  - (www.pactr.org) PACTR201305000551876.

UI  - 24278025
TI  - Killer bee molecules: antimicrobial peptides as effector molecules to target sporogonic stages of Plasmodium.
AB  - A new generation of strategies is evolving that aim to block malaria transmission by employing genetically modified vectors or mosquito pathogens or symbionts that express anti-parasite molecules. Whilst transgenic technologies have advanced rapidly, there is still a paucity of effector molecules with potent anti-malaria activity whose expression does not cause detrimental effects on mosquito fitness. Our objective was to examine a wide range of antimicrobial peptides (AMPs) for their toxic effects on Plasmodium and anopheline mosquitoes. Specifically targeting early sporogonic stages, we initially screened AMPs for toxicity against a mosquito cell line and P. berghei ookinetes. Promising candidate AMPs were fed to mosquitoes to monitor adverse fitness effects, and their efficacy in blocking rodent malaria infection in Anopheles stephensi was assessed. This was followed by tests to determine their activity against P. falciparum in An. gambiae, initially using laboratory cultures to infect mosquitoes, then culminating in preliminary assays in the field using gametocytes and mosquitoes collected from the same area in Mali, West Africa. From a range of 33 molecules, six AMPs able to block Plasmodium development were identified: Anoplin, Duramycin, Mastoparan X, Melittin, TP10 and Vida3. With the exception of Anoplin and Mastoparan X, these AMPs were also toxic to an An. gambiae cell line at a concentration of 25 M. However, when tested in mosquito blood feeds, they did not reduce mosquito longevity or egg production at concentrations of 50 M. Peptides effective against cultured ookinetes were less effective when tested in vivo and differences in efficacy against P. berghei and P. falciparum were seen. From the range of molecules tested, the majority of effective AMPs were derived from bee/wasp venoms.

UI  - 24239324
TI  - Single dose primaquine for clearance of Plasmodium falciparum gametocytes in children with uncomplicated malaria in Uganda: a randomised, controlled, double-blind, dose-ranging trial.
AB  - Wellcome Trust and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.

UI  - 24215565
TI  - Artemisinin-naphthoquine combination versus chloroquine-primaquine to treat vivax malaria: an open-label randomized and non-inferiority trial in Yunnan Province, China.
AB  - ANQ is non-inferior to CQ-PQ in terms of patients free of recurrence, and safer than CQ-PQ.

UI  - 24200190
TI  - Atovaquone-proguanil in the treatment of imported uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria: a prospective observational study of 553 cases.
AB  - This study seems to be the largest in terms of number of imported uncomplicated malaria cases treated by AP. The high rate of reported digestive ADR is striking and should be taken into account in the follow-up of patients since it could affect their adherence to the treatment. Beside AP, artemisinin combination therapy (ACT) is now recommended as first-line regimen. A comparison of AP and ACT, in terms of efficacy and tolerance, would be useful.

UI  - 24122669
TI  - [Efficacy and safety of antimalarial combinations for treatment of uncomplicated malaria in children in Bangui, Central African Republic].
AB  - This study demonstrates that artemisinin-based combinations are still effective and tolerated in the treatment of uncomplicated malaria in children younger than 5 years in Bangui. Treatment failures were due to new infections and mutations in resistance markers.

UI  - 24088113
TI  - Primaquine failure and cytochrome P-450 2D6 in Plasmodium vivax malaria.
AB  - 

UI  - 24079295
TI  - The PRIME trial protocol: evaluating the impact of an intervention implemented in public health centres on management of malaria and health outcomes of children using a cluster-randomised design in Tororo, Uganda.
AB  - This trial is registered at Clinicaltrials.gov (NCT01024426) and is supported by the ACT Consortium.

UI  - 24053172
TI  - Integrated community case management of malaria and pneumonia increases prompt and appropriate treatment for pneumonia symptoms in children under five years in Eastern Uganda.
AB  - ISRCTN52966230.

UI  - 24030274
TI  - Impact of treating young children with antimalarials with or without antibiotics on morbidity: a cluster-randomized controlled trial in Ghana.
AB  - Treating fever with antimalarials significantly reduced the prevalence of anaemia, severe anaemia and severe illness. We found no significant reduction in outcomes when the AAQ and AAQ+AMX clusters were compared.

UI  - 23945376
TI  - Residual Plasmodium falciparum parasitemia in Kenyan children after artemisinin-combination therapy is associated with increased transmission to mosquitoes and parasite recurrence.
AB  - Residual submicroscopic parasitemia is common after ACT and is associated with a higher transmission potential. Residual parasitemia may also have consequences for individual patients because of its higher risk of recurrent parasitemia.

UI  - 23943850
TI  - Randomized controlled trial of levamisole hydrochloride as adjunctive therapy in severe falciparum malaria with high parasitemia.
AB  - There was no benefit of a single-dose of levamisole hydrochloride as adjuvant to intravenous artesunate in the treatment of adults with severe falciparum malaria. Rapid parasite killing by intravenous artesunate might obscure the effects of levamisole.

UI  - 23926329
TI  - A randomized comparison of dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine and artesunate-amodiaquine combined with primaquine for radical treatment of vivax malaria in Sumatera, Indonesia.
AB  - NCT01288820.

UI  - 23922746
TI  - A randomized pilot study of L-arginine infusion in severe falciparum malaria: preliminary safety, efficacy and pharmacokinetics.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00616304.

UI  - 23870627
TI  - A randomized trial of artemether-lumefantrine and dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine in the treatment of uncomplicated malaria among children in western Kenya.
AB  - AL and DP remain efficacious for the treatment of uncomplicated malaria among children in western Kenya. The longer half-life of piperaquine relative to lumefantrine may provide a prophylactic effect, accounting for the lower rate of re-infection in the first 28 days after treatment in the DP arm.

UI  - 23866774
TI  - Efficacy of artesunate-amodiaquine and artemether-lumefantrine fixed-dose combinations for the treatment of uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria among children aged six to 59 months in Nimba County, Liberia: an open-label randomized non-inferiority trial.
AB  - The protocols were registered with Current Controlled Trials, under the identifier numbers ISRCTN51688713, ISRCTN40020296.

UI  - 23827788
TI  - An artesunate-containing antimalarial treatment regimen did not suppress cytomegalovirus viremia.
AB  - A standard 3-day artesunate-containing antimalarial regimen had no detectable effect on CMV viremia in children with malaria. Longer treatment courses and/or higher doses of artesunate than those routinely used for malaria may be required for effective treatment of CMV infection.

UI  - 23787519
TI  - Efficacy of Quinine versus Artemether in the treatment of severe malaria.
AB  - In severe paediatric malaria intravenous Quinine or intramuscular Artemether therapy does not have any statistically significant difference in terms of fever clearance but Quinine has statistically significant shorter duration of coma resolution than with Artemether therapy after 24 hours of treatment.

UI  - 23717423
TI  - In vivo efficacy of artemether-lumefantrine and chloroquine against Plasmodium vivax: a randomized open label trial in central Ethiopia.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT01052584.

UI  - 23715231
TI  - [Characterization of Plasmodium vivax malaria transmission at the border of Panam and Costa Rica].
AB  - These observations indicate the advisibility of continued entomological studies, strengthening of epidemiological surveillance, consideration of additional risk factors and evaluation of work performance in the border region. This will require coordination with health authorities of both countries to control malaria in this region.

UI  - 23715228
TI  - [Therapeutic response of Plasmodium vivax to chloroquine in Bolivia].
AB  - Resistance of Plasmodium vivax to chloroquine was not demonstrated in three regions of Bolivia.

UI  - 23711703
TI  - Therapeutic efficacy of artemisinin combination therapies and prevalence of S769N mutation in PfATPase6 gene of Plasmodium falciparum in Kolkata, India.
AB  - The used, combination AS+SP is effective and the other combination AM+LF might be an alternative, if needed.

UI  - 23669232
TI  - Blood stage of Plasmodium vivax in central China is still susceptible to chloroquine plus primaquine combination therapy.
AB  - In central China, Plasmodium vivax accounts for all of the native reported cases of malaria. Chloroquine (CQ) plus primaquine (PQ) have been used for more than 60 years as the frontline drugs, but the risk of treatment failure remains unknown. To measure the effectiveness and safety of CQ-PQ among vivax malaria patients, a total of 39 subjects with monoinfection vivax malaria was enrolled in a study from 2008 to 2009. There were no recrudescence or danger signs observed within the 28-day follow-up period, showing that blood stage of P. vivax isolates from central China is still susceptible to CQ plus PQ combination therapy. However, the antirelapse efficacy of PQ is difficult to assess because of the high rate of loss to follow-up after 28 days; also, parasites persisted in a single case at 3 days post-antimalarial drug treatment, indicating that continuous annual monitoring is needed in central China.

UI  - 23601522
TI  - [Evaluating the effect of preventive medicine for residents living around mosquito breeding water during rest period of malaria].
AB  - The delimiting preventive medicine treatment during rest period of malaria was very effective for eliminating the potential infection source of malaria and reducing the morbidity of malaria.

UI  - 23587943
TI  - Nonrandomized controlled trial of artesunate plus sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine with or without primaquine for preventing posttreatment circulation of Plasmodium falciparum gametocytes.
AB  - Artemisinin combination therapies eliminate immature Plasmodium falciparum gametocytes but not mature gametocytes, which may persist for up to 1 month posttreatment. A single dose of primaquine, which is inexpensive and effective against mature gametocytes, could be added to further reduce the potential for posttreatment parasite transmission. Currently, we have few data regarding the effectiveness or safety of doing so. We collected data from 21 therapeutic efficacy trials of the National Antimalarial Drug Resistance Monitoring System of India conducted during 2009 to 2010, wherein 9 sites used single-dose primaquine (0.75 mg/kg of body weight) administered on day 2 along with artesunate plus sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine (AS+SP) while 12 did not. We estimated the effect of primaquine on posttreatment gametocyte clearance and the total number of gametocyte-weeks as determined by microscopy. We compared the median area under the curve for gametocyte density and reported adverse events. One thousand three hundred thirty-five patients completed the antimalarial drug treatment. Adjusting for region, primaquine increased the rate of gametocyte clearance (hazard ratio, 1.9; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.1 to 3.3), prevented 45% (95% CI, 19 to 62) of posttreatment gametocyte-weeks, and decreased the area under the gametocyte density curve over the 28-day follow-up compared to AS+SP alone (P value = 0.01). The results were robust to other adjustment sets, and the estimated effect of primaquine increased during sensitivity analysis on the measurement of exposure time. No serious adverse events were detected. In conclusion, the addition of primaquine to AS+SP was effective in reducing the posttreatment presence of P. falciparum gametocytes. Primaquine was well tolerated and could be administered along with an artemisinin combination therapy as the first-line therapy.

UI  - 23555980
TI  - High adherence to antimalarials and antibiotics under integrated community case management of illness in children less than five years in eastern Uganda.
AB  - Addition of antibiotics to antimalarials did not lower adherence. However, caregivers should be adequately counseled to understand the dosing regimens; continue with medicines even when the child seems to improve; and re-administer doses that have been vomited.

UI  - 23530078
TI  - Artesunate/amodiaquine malaria treatment for Equatorial Guinea (Central Africa).
AB  - The objectives of this study were: 1) to evaluate the safety and efficacy of combination artesunate (AS)/amodiaquine (AQ) therapy, and 2) to determine the difference between recrudescence and resistance. An in vivo efficacy study was conducted in Equatorial Guinea. A total of 122 children 6-59 months of age from two regional hospitals were randomized and subjected to a 28-day clinical and parasitological follow-up. A blood sample on Whatman paper was taken on Days 0, 7, 14, 21, and 28 or on any day in cases of treatment failure, with the parasite DNA then being extracted for molecular analysis purposes. A total of 4 children were excluded, and 9 cases were lost to follow-up. There were 17 cases of late parasitological failure, 3 cases of late clinical failure, and 89 cases of adequate clinical and parasitological response. The parasitological failure rate was 18.3% (20 of 109) and the success rate 81.70% (95% confidence interval [72.5-87.9%]). After molecular correction, real treatment efficacy stood at 97.3%. Our study showed the good efficacy of combination AS/AQ therapy. This finding enabled this treatment to be recommended to Equatorial Guinea's National Malaria Control Program to change the official treatment policy as of March 2008.

UI  - 23520478
TI  - Reduced susceptibility of Plasmodium falciparum to artesunate in southern Myanmar.
AB  - Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry ACTRN12610000896077.

UI  - 23489465
TI  - Comparative evaluation of efficacy and safety of artesunate-lumefantrine vs. artemether-lumefantrine fixed-dose combination in the treatment of uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria.
AB  - Artesunate (100mg)/lumefantrine (480mg) fixed-dose combination could add one more option to currently available artemisinin combinations in treatment of uncomplicated P.falciparum malaria.

UI  - 23468056
TI  - Malaria transmission after artemether-lumefantrine and dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine: a randomized trial.
AB  - NCT00868465.

UI  - 23452547
TI  - The effect of an anti-malarial subsidy programme on the quality of service provision of artemisinin-based combination therapy in Kenya: a cluster-randomized, controlled trial.
AB  - Overall, subsidizing ACT and retailer training can significantly increase the percentage of outlets stocking and selling AL for the presumptive treatment of malaria, but further research is needed on strategies to improve the provision of counselling advice to retail customers.

UI  - 23447696
TI  - Pharmacokinetic predictors for recurrent malaria after dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine treatment of uncomplicated malaria in Ugandan infants.
AB  - These piperaquine PK/PD data represent the first in children <2 years of age. Piperaquine exposure on day 7 correlated with an increased risk of recurrent malaria after DP treatment in children receiving TMP-SMX prophylaxis. Interestingly, despite strong associations, infants remained at risk for malaria, even if they had residual levels of piperaquine.

UI  - 23442748
TI  - A controlled, parallel, cluster-randomized trial of community-wide screening and treatment of asymptomatic carriers of Plasmodium falciparum in Burkina Faso.
AB  - Systematic screening and treatment of asymptomatic carriers at the community level did not reduce clinical malaria incidence in the subsequent transmission season, indicating greater levels of parasite clearance are required to achieve a sustained impact in this setting.

UI  - 23441978
TI  - Pharmacokinetic interaction between etravirine or darunavir/ritonavir and artemether/lumefantrine in healthy volunteers: a two-panel, two-way, two-period, randomized trial.
AB  - Co-administration of etravirine with artemether/lumefantrine may lower the antimalarial activity of artemether and should therefore be used with caution. Darunavir/ritonavir can be co-administered with artemether/lumefantrine without dose adjustment but should be used with caution.

UI  - 23403171
TI  - Effectiveness of artemether/lumefantrine for the treatment of uncomplicated Plasmodium vivax and P. falciparum malaria in young children in Papua New Guinea.
AB  - AL provides a rapid clinical response against both Pf and Pv malaria, but is associated with a high rate of Pv recurrent clinical episodes between days 28 and 42. In order to prevent relapsing infections from long-lasting hypnozoites, AL should ideally be complemented with a course of primaquine. In the absence of better treatment and diagnostic options, the use of AL in young children in routine practice is an acceptable, interim option in coendemic areas where Pv is resistant to chloroquine and specific treatment for Pv hypnozoites not feasible.

UI  - 23384005
TI  - Artesunate-amodiaquine efficacy in Congolese children with acute uncomplicated falciparum malaria in Brazzaville.
AB  - This study has shown the high efficacy of AS+AQ in Congolese patients of all ages with acute uncomplicated falciparum malaria and serves as the baseline efficacy and tolerance of this ACT in Brazzaville.

UI  - 23382157
TI  - The effects of ACT treatment and TS prophylaxis on Plasmodium falciparum gametocytemia in a cohort of young Ugandan children.
AB  - Artemisinin-based combination therapies (ACTs) and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (TS) prophylaxis are important tools for malaria control, but there are concerns about their effect on gametocytes, the stage of the parasite responsible for transmission. We conducted a longitudinal clinical trial in a cohort of HIV-infected and uninfected children living in an area of high malaria transmission intensity in Uganda. Study participants were randomized to artemether-lumefantrine (AL) or dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine (DP) for all treatments of uncomplicated malaria (N = 4,380) as well as TS prophylaxis for different durations. The risks of gametocytemia detected by microscopy in the 28 days after antimalarial therapy were compared using multivariate analyses. The risk of gametocyte detection was significantly higher in patients treated with DP compared with AL (adjusted relative risk = 1.85, P < 0.001) and among children prescribed TS prophylaxis (adjusted relative risk = 1.76, P < 0.001). The risk of gametocytemia and its potential for increasing transmission should be considered when evaluating different ACTs and TS prophylaxis for malaria control.

UI  - 23358639
TI  - Prevalence of asymptomatic parasitemia and gametocytemia among HIV-infected Ugandan children randomized to receive different antiretroviral therapies.
AB  - In a recent randomized controlled trial, the use of protease inhibitor (PI)-based antiretroviral therapy (ART) was associated with a significantly lower incidence of malaria compared with non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor-based ART in a cohort of human immunodeficiency virus-infected Ugandan children living in an area of high malaria transmission intensity. In this report, we compared the prevalence of asymptomatic parasitemia and gametocytemia using data from the same cohort. The prevalence of asymptomatic parasitemia did not differ between the two ART treatment arms. The PI-based arm was associated with a lower risk of gametocytemia at the time of diagnosis of malaria (6.6% versus 14.5%, P = 0.03) and during the 28 days after malaria diagnosis (3.4% versus 6.5%, P = 0.04). Thus, in addition to decreasing the incidence of malaria, the use of PI-based ART may lower transmission, as a result of a decrease in gametocytemia, in areas of high malaria transmission intensity.

UI  - 23349786
TI  - Reducing stock-outs of life saving malaria commodities using mobile phone text-messaging: SMS for life study in Kenya.
AB  - Use of simple SMS technology ensured high reporting rates of reasonably accurate, real-time facility stock data that were used by district managers to undertake corrective actions to reduce stock-outs. Future work on stock monitoring via SMS should focus on assessing response rates without use of incentives and demonstrating effectiveness of such interventions on a larger scale.

UI  - 23349741
TI  - Efficacy of quinine, artemether-lumefantrine and dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine as rescue treatment for uncomplicated malaria in Ugandan children.
AB  - Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN99046537.

UI  - 23295878
TI  - Artesunate + amodiaquine versus artemether-lumefantrine for the treatment of uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in the Colombian Pacific region: a noninferiority trial.
AB  - Uncomplicated P. falciparum malaria treatment with artesunate + amodiaquine is noninferior to the artemether-lumefantrine standard treatment. The efficacy/safety profiles grant further studies in this and similar populations.

UI  - 23285095
TI  - Associations between antibodies to a panel of Plasmodium falciparum specific antigens and response to sub-optimal antimalarial therapy in Kampala, Uganda.
AB  - Measurement of antibody levels to AMA-1 at the time of malaria may offer a quantitative biomarker of blood stage immunity to P. falciparum, a tool which is currently lacking.

UI  - 23273022
TI  - Increasing incidence of malaria in children despite insecticide-treated bed nets and prompt anti-malarial therapy in Tororo, Uganda.
AB  - Current Controlled Trials Identifier NCT00527800.

UI  - 23272227
TI  - Current status of artemisinin-resistant falciparum malaria in South Asia: a randomized controlled artesunate monotherapy trial in Bangladesh.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00639873.

UI  - 23270636
TI  - Multicentre study evaluating the non-inferiority of the new paediatric formulation of artesunate/amodiaquine versus artemether/lumefantrine for the management of uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in children in Cameroon, Ivory Coast and Senegal.
AB  - This study demonstrates the non-inferiority of AS+AQ versus AL, its efficacy and tolerance in the management of uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in African children.

UI  - 23262997
TI  - In vivo therapeutic efficacy of chloroquine alone or in combination with primaquine against vivax malaria in Kolkata, West Bengal, India, and polymorphism in pvmdr1 and pvcrt-o genes.
AB  - Plasmodium vivax malaria, though benign, has now become a matter of concern due to recent reports of life-threatening severity and development of parasite resistance to different antimalarial drugs. The magnitude of the problem is still undetermined. The present study was undertaken to determine the in vivo efficacy of chloroquine (CQ) and chloroquine plus primaquine in P. vivax malaria in Kolkata and polymorphisms in the pvmdr1 and pvcrt-o genes. A total of 250 patients with P. vivax monoinfection were recruited and randomized into two groups, A and B; treated with chloroquine and chloroquine plus primaquine, respectively; and followed up for 42 days according to the WHO protocol of 2009. Data were analyzed using per-protocol analyses. We assessed polymorphisms of the pvmdr1 and pvcrt-o genes by a DNA-sequencing method. Out of the 250 patients recruited, 204 completed a 42-day follow-up period, 101 in group A and 103 in group B. In group A, the non-PCR-corrected efficacy of CQ was 99% (95% confidence interval [CI], 0.944 to 1.00), and in group B, all cases were classified as adequate clinical and parasitological response (ACPR). Day 3 positivity was observed in 11 (5.3%) cases. No specific mutation pattern was recorded in the pvcrt-o gene. Eight nonsynonymous mutations were found in the pvmdr1 gene, three of which were new. The Y976F mutation was not detected in any isolate. Chloroquine, either alone or in combination with primaquine, is still effective against P. vivax malaria in the study area. (The study protocol was registered in CTRI [Clinical Trial Registry-India] of the Indian council of Medical Research under registration no. CTRI/2011/09/002031.).

UI  - 23254437
TI  - Randomized, open-label trial of primaquine against vivax malaria relapse in Indonesia.
AB  - Radical cure of Plasmodium vivax infection applies blood schizontocidal therapy against the acute attack and hypnozoitocidal therapy against later relapse. Chloroquine and primaquine have been used for 60 years in this manner. Resistance to chloroquine by the parasite now requires partnering other blood schizontocides with primaquine. However, the safety and efficacy of primaquine against relapse when combined with other drugs have not been demonstrated. This randomized, open-label, and relapse-controlled trial estimated the efficacy of primaquine against relapse when administered with quinine or dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine for treatment of the acute infection. Among 650 soldiers who had returned to their malaria-free base in Java, Indonesia, after 12 months in malarious Papua, Indonesia, 143 with acute P. vivax malaria were eligible for study. One hundred sixteen enrolled subjects were randomized to these treatments: artesunate (200-mg dose followed by 100 mg/day for 6 days), quinine (1.8 g/day for 7 days) plus concurrent primaquine (30 mg/day for 14 days), or dihydroartemisinin (120 mg) plus piperaquine (960 mg) daily for 3 days followed 25 days later by primaquine (30 mg/day for 14 days). Follow-up was for 12 months. One hundred thirteen subjects were analyzable. Relapse occurred in 32 of 41 (78%) subjects administered artesunate alone (2.71 attacks/person-year), 7 of 36 (19%) administered quinine plus primaquine (0.23 attack/person-year), and 2 of 36 (6%) administered dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine plus primaquine (0.06 attack/person-year). The efficacy of primaquine against relapse was 92% (95% confidence interval [CI] = 81% to 96%) for quinine plus primaquine and 98% (95% CI = 91% to 99%) for dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine plus primaquine. Antirelapse therapy with primaquine begun a month after treatment of the acute attack with dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine proved safe and highly efficacious against relapse by P. vivax acquired in Papua, Indonesia.

UI  - 23244570
TI  - Electrocardiographic study in Ghanaian children with uncomplicated malaria, treated with artesunate-amodiaquine or artemether-lumefantrine.
AB  - Artesunate-amodiaquine treatment resulted in a higher incidence of sinus bradycardia than artemether-lumefantrine treatment in children with uncomplicated malaria, but no clinically significant rhythm disturbances were induced by combining artesunate with amodiaquine. These findings, although reassuring, may imply that non-amodiaquine based artemisinin combination therapy may be preferable for malaria treatment in patients who are otherwise at risk of cardiac effects.

UI  - 23234606
TI  - Efficacy and tolerability of a new formulation of artesunate-mefloquine for the treatment of uncomplicated malaria in adult in Senegal: open randomized trial.
AB  - Artesunate-mefloquine (25 mg/Kg mefloquine) is efficacious and well-tolerated for the treatment of uncomplicated P. falciparum malaria in adult patients.

UI  - 23232095
TI  - Open-label trial of three dosage regimens of fixed-dose combination of artemisinin and naphthoquine for treating uncomplicated falciparum malaria in Calabar, Nigeria.
AB  - Concerns for emergence of parasite resistance due to the use of artemisinin-naphthoquine as single dose regimen is likely to compromise the usefulness of this potentially important combination treatment. A robust multi-centre trial is recommended to evaluate a three-day regimen with potentials to achieve high cure rates while minimizing the risk of emergence of resistant parasite strains.

UI  - 23190222
TI  - Antiretroviral agents and prevention of malaria in HIV-infected Ugandan children.
AB  - Lopinavir-ritonavir-based ART as compared with NNRTI-based ART reduced the incidence of malaria by 41%, with the lower incidence attributable largely to a significant reduction in the recurrence of malaria after treatment with artemether-lumefantrine. Lopinavir-ritonavir-based ART was accompanied by an increase in serious adverse events. (Funded by the Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development; ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00978068.).

UI  - 23186785
TI  - NF135.C10: a new Plasmodium falciparum clone for controlled human malaria infections.
AB  - NCT01002833.

UI  - 23183442
TI  - Population pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties of intramuscular quinine in Tanzanian children with severe Falciparum malaria.
AB  - Although artesunate is clearly superior, parenteral quinine is still used widely for the treatment of severe malaria. A loading-dose regimen has been recommended for 30 years but is still often not used. A population pharmacokinetic study was conducted with 75 Tanzanian children aged 4 months to 8 years with severe malaria who received quinine intramuscularly; 69 patients received a loading dose of 20 mg quinine dihydrochloride (salt)/kg of body weight. Twenty-one patients had plasma quinine concentrations detectable at baseline. A zero-order absorption model with one-compartment disposition pharmacokinetics described the data adequately. Body weight was the only significant covariate and was implemented as an allometric function on clearance and volume parameters. Population pharmacokinetic parameter estimates (and percent relative standard errors [%RSE]) of elimination clearance, central volume of distribution, and duration of zero-order absorption were 0.977 liters/h (6.50%), 16.7 liters (6.39%), and 1.42 h (21.5%), respectively, for a typical patient weighing 11 kg. Quinine exposure was reduced at lower body weights after standard weight-based dosing; there was 18% less exposure over 24 h in patients weighing 5 kg than in those weighing 25 kg. Maximum plasma concentrations after the loading dose were unaffected by body weight. There was no evidence of dose-related drug toxicity with the loading dosing regimen. Intramuscular quinine is rapidly and reliably absorbed in children with severe falciparum malaria. Based on these pharmacokinetic data, a loading dose of 20 mg salt/kg is recommended, provided that no loading dose was administered within 24 h and no routine dose was administered within 12 h of admission. (This study has been registered with Current Controlled Trials under registration number ISRCTN 50258054.).

UI  - 23175563
TI  - The effect of primaquine on gametocyte development and clearance in the treatment of uncomplicated falciparum malaria with dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine in South sumatra, Western indonesia: an open-label, randomized, controlled trial.
AB  - Addition of single-dose 0.75 mg/kg primaquine shortens the infectivity period of DHP-treated patients and should be considered in low-transmission regions that aim to control and ultimately eliminate falciparum malaria. Clinical Trials Registration. NCT01392014.

UI  - 23175556
TI  - Effect of high-dose or split-dose artesunate on parasite clearance in artemisinin-resistant falciparum malaria.
AB  - Increasing the artesunate treatment dose up to 8 mg/kg/d or splitting the dose does not improve parasite clearance in either artemisinin resistant or more sensitive infections with P. falciparum. Clinical Trials Registration.ISRCTN15351875.

UI  - 23113947
TI  - Pyronaridine-artesunate granules versus artemether-lumefantrine crushed tablets in children with Plasmodium falciparum malaria: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov: identifier NCT00541385.

UI  - 23101492
TI  - In vivo susceptibility of Plasmodium falciparum to artesunate in Binh Phuoc Province, Vietnam.
AB  - NTC01165372.

UI  - 23090298
TI  - [Plasmodium vivax malaria recurrence according to the use of primaquine: analysis of longitudinal descriptive studies].
AB  - Although not 100%, PQ is effective in preventing recurrence. Total doses of 210 and 75 mg are equally effective, but 75 mg alone has been evaluated in India, where P. vivax seems to respond better to PQ than elsewhere. The effect of place in the proportion of recurrences seems evident, even using the same total dose. The role of follow-up time is not clear. Although the standard regimen has an average effectiveness of 90% or more, alternative regimens should be assessed.

UI  - 23088844
TI  - Malaria and gravidity interact to modify maternal haemoglobin concentrations during pregnancy.
AB  - In a context of IPTp, Hb levels improved progressively throughout pregnancy in primigravidae, likely as a result of reduction in malaria infection. In multigravidae, the improvement was less perceptible and anaemia was mainly due to iron deficiency.

UI  - 23083017
TI  - Therapeutic efficacy of artemether-lumefantrine for Plasmodium vivax infections in a prospective study in Guyana.
AB  - In Guyana, artemether-lumefantrine represents an adequate treatment option against P. vivax when combined with primaquine. Availability of this alternative will be of great importance in case of emerging chloroquine resistance against P. vivax.

UI  - 23058047
TI  - Population pharmacokinetics of halofantrine in healthy volunteers and patients with symptomatic falciparum malaria.
AB  - The pharmacokinetic properties of HF in patients with malaria are affected by several demographic variables as well as other relevant covariates. Apparent differences between the healthy volunteer and the patient data analysis results are not entirely due to differences in bioavailability. For the patient data analysis, the Bayesian method was preferred, as the fitting procedure was more stable, allowing random effects to be estimated for all four dispositional parameters.

UI  - 23056012
TI  - Effect of vitamin A adjunct therapy for cerebral malaria in children admitted to Mulago hospital: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Vitamin A as adjunct therapy did not significantly reduce coma duration but there were fewer deaths in the vitamin A arm.

UI  - 22983072
TI  - Good efficacy of artemether-lumefantrine for uncomplicated falciparum malaria in eastern Sumba, East Nusatenggara, Indonesia.
AB  - the findings of this uncontrolled study suggest good safety and efficacy of artemether-lumefantrine for treatment of uncomplicated falciparum malaria on Sumba Island in the Lesser Sundas archipelago of eastern Indonesia.

UI  - 22966124
TI  - Relapses contribute significantly to the risk of Plasmodium vivax infection and disease in Papua New Guinean children 1-5 years of age.
AB  - Hypnozoites are an important source of P. vivax infection and contribute substantially to the high burden of P. vivax disease observed in young Papua New Guinean children. Even in highly endemic areas with a high risk of reinfection, antihypnozoite treatment should be given to all cases with parasitologically confirmed P. vivax infections.

UI  - 22946985
TI  - Effects of malaria volunteer training on coverage and timeliness of diagnosis: a cluster randomized controlled trial in Myanmar.
AB  - The results show that implementing volunteer programmes to improve the coverage of accurate and timely diagnosis with RDT and early treatment may be beneficial but the timeliness of detection and sustainability must be improved.

UI  - 22940027
TI  - Artemisinin-resistant Plasmodium falciparum in Pursat province, western Cambodia: a parasite clearance rate study.
AB  - Division of Intramural Research, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of Health.

UI  - 22912697
TI  - A longitudinal trial comparing chloroquine as monotherapy or in combination with artesunate, azithromycin or atovaquone-proguanil to treat malaria.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00379821.

UI  - 22869581
TI  - Pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of oral artesunate monotherapy in patients with uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in western Cambodia.
AB  - Artemisinin-resistant malaria along the Thailand-Cambodian border is an important public health concern, yet mechanisms of drug action and their contributions to the development of resistance are poorly understood. The pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of oral artesunate monotherapy were explored in a dose-ranging trial in an area of emerging artesunate resistance in western Cambodia. We enrolled 143 evaluable subjects with uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in an open label study of directly observed artesunate monotherapy at 3 dose levels (2, 4, and 6 mg/kg of body weight/day) for 7 days at Tasanh Health Center, Tasanh, Cambodia. Clinical outcomes were similar among the 3 groups. Wide variability in artesunate and dihydroartemisinin concentrations in plasma was observed. No significant dose-effect or concentration-effect relationships between pharmacokinetic (PK) and parasite clearance parameters were observed, though baseline parasitemia was modestly correlated with increased parasite clearance times. The overall parasite clearance times were prolonged compared with the clearance times in a previous study at this site in 2006 to 2007, but this did not persist when the evaluation was limited to subjects with a comparable artesunate dose (4 mg/kg/day) and baseline parasitemia from the two studies. Reduced plasma drug levels with higher presentation parasitemias, previously hypothesized to result from partitioning into infected red blood cells, was not observed in this population with uncomplicated malaria. Neither in vitro parasite susceptibility nor plasma drug concentrations appeared to have a direct relationship with the pharmacodynamic (PD) effects of oral artesunate on malaria parasites. While direct concentration-effect relationships were not found, it remains possible that a population PK modeling approach that allows modeling of greater dose separation might discern more-subtle relationships.

UI  - 22829919
TI  - The effect of monthly sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine, alone or with azithromycin, on PCR-diagnosed malaria at delivery: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Our results suggest that increasing the frequency of SP administration during pregnancy improves the efficacy against malaria at delivery among HIV-negative women, as well as a population consisting of both HIV-positive and -negative pregnant women of all gravidities, in a setting of relatively low but holoendemic malaria transmission, frequent use of bed nets and high SP resistance.

UI  - 22824059
TI  - Open-label trial with artemether-lumefantrine against uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria three years after its broad introduction in Jimma Zone, Ethiopia.
AB  - In general, AL was effective and well tolerated in Jimma Zone, Ethiopia. However, the PCR-corrected recrudescence rate per-protocol at day 42 for children  5years was 9.4%. Therefore, further development should be monitored on a regular basis as recommended by WHO.

UI  - 22818552
TI  - Therapeutic efficacy and safety of dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine versus artesunate-mefloquine in uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in India.
AB  - Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN 81306618.

UI  - 22808048
TI  - Genotyping of Plasmodium vivax reveals both short and long latency relapse patterns in Kolkata.
AB  - Controlled-Trials.com ISRCTN14027467.

UI  - 22764291
TI  - Repeated artemisinin-based combination therapies in a malaria hyperendemic area of Mali: efficacy, safety, and public health impact.
AB  - Artemisinin-based combination therapies (ACTs) are the first-line treatment of uncomplicated malaria. The public health benefit and safety of repeated administration of a given ACT are poorly studied. We conducted a randomized trial comparing artemether-lumefantrine, artesunate plus amodiaquine (AS+AQ) and artesunate plus sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine (AS+SP) in patients 6 months of age and older with uncomplicated malaria in Mali from July 2005 to July 2007. The patient received the same initial treatment of each subsequent uncomplicated malaria episode except for treatment failures where quinine was used. Overall, 780 patients were included. Patients in the AS+AQ and AS+SP arms had significantly less risk of having malaria episodes; risk ratio (RR) = 0.84 (P = 0.002) and RR = 0.80 (P = 0.001), respectively. The treatment efficacy was similar and above 95% in all arms. Although all drugs were highly efficacious and well tolerated, AS+AQ and AS+SP were associated with less episodes of malaria.

UI  - 22741618
TI  - The efficacy and tolerability of artemisinin-piperaquine (Artequick) versus artesunate-amodiaquine (Coarsucam) for the treatment of uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in south-central Vietnam.
AB  - Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry Number, ACTRN12609000816257.

UI  - 22720832
TI  - Therapy of uncomplicated falciparum malaria in Europe: MALTHER - a prospective observational multicentre study.
AB  - This study highlights the heterogeneity of standards of care within Europe. A consensus discussion at European level is desirable to foster a standardized management of imported falciparum malaria.

UI  - 22689680
TI  - Hepcidin demonstrates a biphasic association with anemia in acute Plasmodium falciparum malaria.
AB  - Hepcidin levels are high and iron absorption is limited in acute malaria. The mechanism(s) that regulate hepcidin secretion remain undefined. We have measured hepcidin concentration and cytokines in 100 Kenyan children with acute falciparum malaria and different degrees of anemia. Hepcidin was increased on admission and fell significantly one week and one month after treatment. The association of hepcidin with hemoglobin was not linear and hepcidin was very low in severe malarial anemia. Parasite density, IL-10 and IL-6 were significantly associated with hepcidin concentration. Hepcidin response to acute malaria supports the notion of iron sequestration during acute malaria infection and suggests that iron administration during acute malaria is futile. These data suggest iron supplementation policies should take into account the high hepcidin levels and probable poor utilization of iron for up to one week after treatment for the majority of patients with acute malaria.

UI  - 22687893
TI  - Significant pharmacokinetic interactions between artemether/lumefantrine and efavirenz or nevirapine in HIV-infected Ugandan adults.
AB  - Co-administration of artemether/lumefantrine with efavirenz or nevirapine resulted in a reduction in artemether, dihydroartemisinin, lumefantrine and nevirapine exposure. These drug interactions may increase the risk of malaria treatment failure and development of resistance to artemether/lumefantrine and nevirapine. Clinical data from population pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic trials evaluating the impact of these drug interactions are urgently needed.

UI  - 22682276
TI  - A cost-effectiveness analysis of provider and community interventions to improve the treatment of uncomplicated malaria in Nigeria: study protocol for a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Clinicaltrials.gov NCT01350752.

UI  - 22631564
TI  - Efficacy of fixed-dose combination artesunate-amodiaquine versus artemether-lumefantrine for uncomplicated childhood Plasmodium falciparum malaria in Democratic Republic of Congo: a randomized non-inferiority trial.
AB  - The protocol was registered with the clinicaltrials.gov, open clinical trial registry under the identifier number NCT01567423.

UI  - 22615323
TI  - Low-level Plasmodium falciparum blood-stage infection causes dendritic cell apoptosis and dysfunction in healthy volunteers.
AB  - Plasmodium causes DC loss in vivo, which is at least partially explained by apoptosis in response to blood-stage parasites. In primary infection, loss of DC number and function occurs early during the prepatent period and before or with onset of clinical symptoms. These findings may explain in part the inadequate development of immunity to blood-stage malaria infection.

UI  - 22595272
TI  - Quality and safety of integrated community case management of malaria using rapid diagnostic tests and pneumonia by community health workers.
AB  - Volunteer CHWs in rural Zambia are capable of providing integrated management of malaria and pneumonia to children safely and at high quality.

UI  - 22586253
TI  - Arterolane maleate plus piperaquine phosphate for treatment of uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria: a comparative, multicenter, randomized clinical trial.
AB  - The available data support the evaluation of a drug combination in a larger population as a fixed-dose combination. Clinical Trials Registration.CTRI/2007/091/000031.

UI  - 22554203
TI  - Efficacy and safety of artemisinin-naphthoquine versus dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine in adult patients with uncomplicated malaria: a multi-centre study in Indonesia.
AB  - AN and DHP are confirmed very effective, safe and tolerate for treatment of any malaria. Both drugs are promising for multiple first-line therapy policies in Indonesia.

UI  - 22554092
TI  - Artemether-lumefantrine to treat malaria in pregnancy is associated with reduced placental haemozoin deposition compared to quinine in a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - http://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT00495508.

UI  - 22554024
TI  - Multiple treatment comparisons in a series of anti-malarial trials with an ordinal primary outcome and repeated treatment evaluations.
AB  - Bayesian mixed treatment comparisons of a network of connected randomized trials with repeated measurements of the primary categorical outcome allowed to take into account both the individual- and between- studies sources of heterogeneity. The results of the present study complete the previous quantitative review based on a binary outcome at a fixed time point, suggesting that DHPP represents an alternative for the treatment of uncomplicated P. falciparum malaria in Cameroonian children.

UI  - 22546009
TI  - Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency, chlorproguanil-dapsone with artesunate and post-treatment haemolysis in African children treated for uncomplicated malaria.
AB  - The use of CDA for treating uncomplicated malaria may increase the risk of haemolytic anaemia in G6PD-deficient children.

UI  - 22540954
TI  - Pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of intravenous artesunate during severe malaria treatment in Ugandan adults.
AB  - Plasma concentrations of artesunate and dihydroartemisinin were achieved rapidly with rapid and complete symptom resolution and parasite clearance with no adverse events.

UI  - 22538476
TI  - Antimalarial efficacy of a quantified extract of Nauclea pobeguinii stem bark in human adult volunteers with diagnosed uncomplicated falciparum malaria. Part 2: a clinical phase IIB trial.
AB  - According to the promising results of the Phase I and Phase IIA clinical trials with the herbal medicinal product PR 259 CT1 consisting of an 80 % ethanolic extract of the stem bark of Nauclea pobeguinii containing 5.6 % strictosamide, a Phase IIB study was conducted as a single blind prospective trial in 65 patients with proven Plasmodium falciparum malaria to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of this herbal drug. The study was carried out simultaneously using an artesunate-amodiaquine combination (Coarsucam) as a positive control. This combination is the standard first-line treatment for uncomplicated malaria recommended by the National Programme of Malaria Control in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DR Congo). With regard to PR 259 CT1, patients were treated with a drug regimen of two 500-mg capsules three times daily for three days in the inpatient clinic, followed by out-patient treatment of one 500-mg capsule three times daily during the next four days; the positive control group received two tablets containing 100 mg artesunate and 270 mg amodiaquine (fixed-dose) once daily during three consecutive days. Antimalarial responses were evaluated according to the WHO 2003 guideline for a 14-day test. The results from the physical and laboratory examinations did not show any significant changes in values of vital signs, ECG, biochemical, and haematological parameters. The study showed a significant decreased parasitaemia in patients treated with PR 29 CT1 and artesunate-amodiaquine with adequate clinical parasitological responses (APCR) at day 14 of 87.9 and 96.9 %, respectively. The former product was better tolerated than the latter since more side effects were observed for the artesunate-amodiaquine combination. These results indicated that PR 259 CT1 can be considered as a promising candidate for the development of a herbal medicine for the treatment of uncomplicated falciparum malaria.

UI  - 22515681
TI  - Prospective evaluation of artemether-lumefantrine for the treatment of non-falciparum and mixed-species malaria in Gabon.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT00725777.

UI  - 22514730
TI  - Consequences of gestational malaria on birth weight: finding the best timeframe for intermittent preventive treatment administration.
AB  - To investigate the consequences of intermittent preventive treatment (IPTp) timing on birth weight, we pooled data from two studies conducted in Benin between 2005 and 2010: a prospective cohort of 1037 pregnant women and a randomised trial comparing sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine (SP) to mefloquine in 1601 women. A total of 1439 women (752 in the cohort and 687 in the SP arm of the randomised trial) who delivered live singletons were analysed. We showed that an early intake of the first SP dose (4 months of gestation) was associated with a lower risk of LBW compared to a late intake (6-7 months of gestation) (aOR = 0.5 p = 0.01). We also found a borderline increased risk of placental infection when the first SP dose was administered early in pregnancy (aOR = 1.7 p = 0.1). This study is the first to investigate the timing of SP administration during pregnancy. We clearly demonstrated that women who had an early intake of the first SP dose were less at risk of LBW compared to those who had a late intake. Pregnant women should be encouraged to attend antenatal visits early to get their first SP dose and a third dose of SP could be recommended to cover the whole duration of pregnancy and to avoid late infections of the placenta.

UI  - 22509297
TI  - The frequency of malaria is similar among women receiving either lopinavir/ritonavir or nevirapine-based antiretroviral treatment.
AB  - HIV protease inhibitors (PIs) show antimalarial activity in vitro and in animals. Whether this translates into a clinical benefit in HIV-infected patients residing in malaria-endemic regions is unknown. We studied the incidence of malaria, as defined by blood smear positivity or a positive Plasmodium falciparum histidine-rich protein 2 antigen test, among 444 HIV-infected women initiating antiretroviral treatment (ART) in the OCTANE trial (A5208; ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT00089505). Participants were randomized to treatment with PI-containing vs. PI-sparing ART, and were followed prospectively for 48 weeks; 73% also received cotrimoxazole prophylaxis. PI-containing treatment was not associated with protection against malaria in this study population.

UI  - 22484134
TI  - Emergence of artemisinin-resistant malaria on the western border of Thailand: a longitudinal study.
AB  - The Wellcome Trust and National Institutes of Health.

UI  - 22475593
TI  - Pyronaridine-artesunate versus mefloquine plus artesunate for malaria.
AB  - Fixed-dose pyronaridine-artesunate was efficacious in the treatment of uncomplicated P. falciparum malaria. In Cambodia, extended parasite clearance times were suggestive of in vivo resistance to artemisinin. (Funded by Shin Poong Pharmaceutical Company and the Medicines for Malaria Venture; ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00403260.).

UI  - 22470119
TI  - Pharmacokinetic comparison of two piperaquine-containing artemisinin combination therapies in Papua New Guinean children with uncomplicated malaria.
AB  - Pharmacokinetic differences between piperaquine (PQ) base and PQ tetraphosphate were investigated in 34 Papua New Guinean children aged 5 to 10 years treated for uncomplicated malaria with artemisinin-PQ (ART-PQ) base or dihydroartemisinin-PQ (DHA-PQ) tetraphosphate. Twelve children received ART-PQ base (two daily doses of 3 mg of ART and 18 mg of PQ base as granules/kg of body weight) as recommended by the manufacturer, with regular clinical assessment and blood sampling over 56 days. PQ concentrations in plasma samples collected from 22 children of similar ages with malaria in a previously published pharmacokinetic study of DHA-PQ tetraphosphate (three daily doses of 2.5 mg of ART and 20 mg of PQ tetraphosphate as tablets/kg of body weight) were available for comparison. The disposition of ART was also assessed in the 12 children who received ART-PQ base. Plasma PQ was assayed by high-performance liquid chromatography with UV detection, and ART was assayed using liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. Multicompartment pharmacokinetic models for PQ and ART were developed using a population-based approach. ART-PQ base was well tolerated, and initial fever abatement and parasite clearance were prompt. There were no differences between the two treatments in the values for the PQ area under the concentration-time curve from time zero to infinity (AUC(0-)), with medians of 49,451 (n = 12) and 44,556 (n = 22) g  h/liter for ART-PQ base and DHA-PQ tetraphosphate, respectively. Recurrent parasitemia was associated with lower PQ exposure. Using a two-compartment ART model, the median AUC(0-) was 1,652 g  h/liter. There was evidence of autoinduction of ART metabolism (relative bioavailability for the second dose, 0.27). These and previously published data suggest that a 3-day ART-PQ base regimen should be further evaluated, in line with World Health Organization recommendations for all artemisinin combination therapies.

UI  - 22458860
TI  - Artesunate-amodiaquine fixed dose combination for the treatment of Plasmodium falciparum malaria in India.
AB  - ISRCTN84408319.

UI  - 22457274
TI  - HIV infection and the incidence of malaria among HIV-exposed children from Tanzania.
AB  - HIV infection is a risk factor for the development of malaria. Proactive malaria disease prevention and treatment is warranted for all children, particularly those with HIV infection in settings of coendemicity.

UI  - 22433778
TI  - An analysis of timing and frequency of malaria infection during pregnancy in relation to the risk of low birth weight, anaemia and perinatal mortality in Burkina Faso.
AB  - Malaria infection during first trimester of pregnancy is associated to a higher risk of low birth weight. Women should be encouraged to use long-lasting insecticidal nets before and throughout their pregnancy.

UI  - 22430959
TI  - Inadequate efficacy of a new formulation of fosmidomycin-clindamycin combination in Mozambican children less than three years old with uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria.
AB  - The combination of fosmidomycin and clindamycin (F/C) is effective in adults and older children for the treatment of malaria and could be an important alternative to existing artemisinin-based combinations (ACTs) if proven to work in younger children. We conducted an open-label clinical trial to assess the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of F/C for the treatment of uncomplicated P. falciparum malaria in Mozambican children <3 years of age. Aqueous solutions of the drugs were given for 3 days, and the children were followed up for 28 days. The primary outcome was the PCR-corrected adequate clinical and parasitological response at day 28. Secondary outcomes included day 7 and 28 uncorrected cure rates and fever (FCT) and parasite (PCT) clearance times. Fifty-two children were recruited, but only 37 patients were evaluable for the primary outcome. Day 7 cure rates were high (94.6%; 35/37), but the day 28 PCR-corrected cure rate was 45.9% (17/37). The FCT was short (median, 12 h), but the PCT was longer (median, 72 h) than in previous studies. Tolerability was good, and most common adverse events were related to the recurrence of malaria. The poor efficacy observed for the F/C combination may be a consequence of the new formulations used, differential bioavailability in younger children, naturally occurring variations in parasite sensitivity to the drugs, or an insufficient enhancement of their effects by naturally acquired immunity in young children. Additional studies should be conducted to respond to the many uncertainties arising from this trial, which should not discourage further evaluation of this promising combination.

UI  - 22423611
TI  - The implementation of malaria intermittent preventive trialtreatment with sulphadoxine-pyrimethamine in infants reduced all-cause mortality in the district of Kolokani, Mali: results from a cluster randomized control.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.govNCT00766662.

UI  - 22412067
TI  - Predicting the clinical outcome of severe falciparum malaria in african children: findings from a large randomized trial.
AB  - Acidosis, cerebral involvement, renal impairment, and chronic illness are key independent predictors for a poor outcome in African children with severe malaria. Mortality is markedly increased in cerebral malaria combined with acidosis. Clinical Trial Registration.ISRCTN50258054.

UI  - 22403308
TI  - No evidence for spread of Plasmodium falciparum artemisinin resistance to Savannakhet Province, Southern Laos.
AB  - We conducted an open-label, randomized clinical trial to assess parasite clearance times (PCT) and the efficacy of 4 mg/kg (group 1, n = 22) and 2 mg/kg (group 2, n = 22) of oral artesunate for three days followed by artemether-lumefantrine in patients with uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria at Xepon Interdistrict Hospital, Savannakhet Province in southern Laos. Slides were read in duplicate. The overall mean (95% confidence interval; range) PCT in hours was 23.2 (21.2-25.3; 12-46) and 22.4 (20.3-24.5; 12-46) for the first and second microscopists, respectively (P = 0.57). Ten (23%) patients remained parasitemic on day 1 after treatment (4 [18%] in group 1 and 6 [27%] in group 2; P = 0.47). No patient had patent asexual parasitemia on the second and third days of treatment. The 42-day polymerase chain reaction-corrected cure rates were 100% in both treatment groups. Serious adverse events did not develop during or after treatment in any patients. In conclusion, no evidence of P. falciparum in vivo resistance to artesunate was found in southern Laos.

UI  - 22403306
TI  - Efficacy of artemether-lumefantrine in area of high malaria endemicity in India and its correlation with blood concentration of lumefantrine.
AB  - This study was conducted to correlate blood concentrations of lumefantrine with treatment outcome for patients with Plasmodium falciparum malaria when the drug was given without specific instructions for administration with food. Patients with P. falciparum malaria in the highly endemic state of Orissa, India, were enrolled during 2008 and followed-up for 28 days after admistration of artemether-lumefantrine for three days according to a World Health Organization protocol. Drug concentration in whole blood was determined by using blood spots placed on filter paper on day 7. The technology is suitable for field studies. One hundred percent of the patients had an adequate clinical and parasitological response. These results confirm the efficacy of artemether-lumefantrine in persons from poor tribal communities when given without specific instructions regarding co-administration with food, despite high inter-individual variability in blood concentrations of lumefantrine.

UI  - 22328063
TI  - [A randomized clinical trial comparing the effectiveness and tolerability of artemisinine-naphthoquine (Arco) and artemether-lumefantrine (Coartem) in the treatment of uncomplicated malaria in Benin].
AB  - The Ministry of Health recommended in Benin, since 2004, artemisinin-based combination, artemether-lumtefantrine (Coartem), therapy for the treatment of uncomplicated malaria. To resolve the difficulties related to observance, we are interested in a new combination, artemisinin-naphthoquine (Arco). A study was conducted to assess and compare the efficacy and tolerability of the fixed combination artemisinin (125 mg)-naphthoquine (50 mg), a single-dose drug, administered one day versus artemether (20 mg)-lumefantrine (120 mg).The clinical assessment was a single-blinded, two-arm, randomized trial comparing Arco combination as a single-dose regimen and three-day regimen of Coartem for the treatment of uncomplicated falciparum malaria, from july to october 2008 and may to september 2009, with 28 days of follow-up in children. PCR genotyping was used to classify re-infection or recrudescence. The primary outcome measures for efficacy were cure rates on days 3, 7, 14, 21 and 28. Secondary outcomes included parasite clearance time and fever clearance time. The main outcome measures for safety were incidences of post-treatment clinical and laboratory adverse events. A total of 174 patients (84 in Arco group and 90 in Coartem group) were evaluated for clinical and parasitological outcomes. The cure rate was 98.8% for Arco and 100% for Coartem on day 28, with no statistically significant difference. Fever clearance was obtained within 24 hours in both groups. The parasite clearance is obtained at 48 hours in Arco group and at 60 hours in Coartem group. Both treatments were well tolerated without major side effects. This study therefore concluded that the combination of artemisinin-naphthoquine is as effective and well tolerated as the combination artemether-lumefantrine in the treatment of uncomplicated malaria in Benin children. This medication administered in single dose is therapy of choice to reduce compliance problems during malaria treatment and also to facilitate community-based care of malaria.

UI  - 22322791
TI  - [Efficacy of artemether-lumefantrine in the treatment of uncomplicated malaria in children living in a rural area of Burkina Faso in 2009].
AB  - In order to implement community case management of malaria strategy in a rural area of intense transmission, of children using artemether-lumefantrine combination, we assessed the therapeutic efficacy of the medicine. We conducted an open label and uncontrolled clinical trial in an unique centre from September 2009 to December 2009 in children 6-59 months old who consulted at health facilities for uncomplicated malaria. The primary endpoint was clinical and parasitological cure rate at day 28 corrected by PCR. In total 106 children were enrolled. Parasite clearance at day 2 was 99.04% and the adequate clinical and parasitological response corrected by PCR at day 28 was 90.5%. Our results confirm that artemether-lumefantrine combination is still effective.

UI  - 22316571
TI  - Lopinavir/ritonavir significantly influences pharmacokinetic exposure of artemether/lumefantrine in HIV-infected Ugandan adults.
AB  - Co-administration of artemether/lumefantrine with lopinavir/ritonavir significantly increases lumefantrine exposure, but decreases artemether exposure. Population pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic trials will be highly valuable in evaluating the clinical significance of this interaction and determining whether dosage modifications are indicated.

UI  - 22315875
TI  - A phase III clinical trial of alpha, beta-arteether injection 150 mg/ml in patients of P falciparum malaria.
AB  - The aim of study was to evaluate efficacy and safety of alpha, beta-arteether injection 150 mg/ml by performing a phase III, multicentre, open label, and single treatment study in patients with P falciparum malaria. A total of 145 patients with P falciparum malaria were screened to achieve patient pool of 101 subjects based on inclusion and exclusion criteria, from which 100 patients completed the study successfully. Mean cure rate was calculated as primary efficacy parameter, while mean parasite clearance time (hours) and mean fever clearance time (hours) were calculated as secondary efficacy parameters, to evaluate efficacy of alpha, beta-arteether injection 150 mg/ml. Safety evaluation was measured by observing and monitoring adverse events, clinical examination, assessment of vitals and haematology laboratory parameters. Statistical analysis was performed with 5% level of significance. Mean cure rate, mean parasite clearance time (hours) and mean fever clearance time (hours) were 99.01%, 24.72 +/- 0.41 hours and 46.86 +/- 0.97 hours respectively. A total of 6 patients were observed with pain at injection site out of 101 enrolled patients. There were no clinically significant vitals and haematology changes. There were no abnormal posttreatment values observed. The study confirmed that alpha, gamma-arteether injection 150 mg/ml is highly effective in treatment of P falciparum malaria.

UI  - 22314538
TI  - Comparative efficacies of artemisinin combination therapies in Plasmodium falciparum malaria and polymorphism of pfATPase6, pfcrt, pfdhfr, and pfdhps genes in tea gardens of Jalpaiguri District, India.
AB  - In India, chloroquine has been replaced by a combination of artesunate and sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine (AS-SP) for uncomplicated P. falciparum malaria. Other available combinations, artemether-lumefantrine (AM-LF) and artesunate-mefloquine (AS-MQ), not included in the national program, are widely used by private practitioners. Little is known about the therapeutic efficacy of these artemisinin combinations and the prevalence of molecular markers associated with antimalarial drug resistance. A total of 157 patients with P. falciparum monoinfection were recruited and randomized into three study groups (AS-SP, AM-LF, and AS-MQ). All patients were followed up for 42 days to study the clinical and parasitological responses according to the WHO protocol (2009). We assessed the polymorphism of the pfATPase6, pfcrt, pfdhfr, and pfdhps genes by the DNA-sequencing method. The PCR-corrected therapeutic efficacies of AS-SP, AM-LF, and AS-MQ were 90.6% (95% confidence interval [CI], 0.793 to 0.969), 95.9% (95% CI, 0.860 to 0.995), and 100% (95% CI, 0.927 to 1.00), respectively. No specific mutational pattern was observed in the pfATPase6 gene. All isolates had a K76T mutation in the pfcrt gene. In the pfdhfr-pfdhps genotype, quadruple mutation was frequent, and quintuple mutation was documented in 6.3% of P. falciparum isolates. The significant failure rate of AS-SP (9.5%), although within the limit (10%) for drug policy change, was due to SP failure because of prevailing mutations in pfdhfr, I(51)R(59)N(108), with pfdhps, G(437) and/or E(540). The efficacy of this ACT needs periodic monitoring. Artemether-lumefantrine and artesunate-mefloquine are effective alternatives to the artesunate-sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine combination.

UI  - 22303437
TI  - Defining Plasmodium falciparum treatment in South West Asia: a randomized trial comparing artesunate or primaquine combined with chloroquine or SP.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00959517.

UI  - 22280502
TI  - Intermittent preventive treatment with sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine does not modify plasma cytokines and chemokines or intracellular cytokine responses to Plasmodium falciparum in Mozambican children.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT00209795.

UI  - 22258469
TI  - Population pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of piperaquine in children with uncomplicated falciparum malaria.
AB  - Dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine is being increasingly used as a first-line artemisinin combination treatment for malaria. The aim of this study was to describe the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties of piperaquine in 236 children with uncomplicated falciparum malaria in Burkina Faso. They received a standard body weight-based oral 3-day fixed-dose dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine regimen. Capillary plasma concentration-time profiles were characterized using nonlinear mixed-effects modeling. The population pharmacokinetics of piperaquine were described accurately by a two-transit-compartment absorption model and a three-compartment distribution model. Body weight was a significant covariate affecting clearance and volume parameters. The individually predicted day 7 capillary plasma concentration of piperaquine was an important predictor (P < 0.0001) of recurrent malaria infection after treatment. Young children (2-5 years of age) received a significantly higher body weight-normalized dose than older children (P = 0.025) but had significantly lower day 7 piperaquine concentrations (P = 0.024) and total piperaquine exposures (P = 0.021), suggesting that an increased dose regimen for young children should be evaluated.

UI  - 22245668
TI  - Efficacy of different primaquine-based antimalarial regimens against Plasmodium falciparum gametocytemia.
AB  - This study compared the efficacy against Plasmodium falciparum gametocytes of four regimens: amodiaquine-sulfadoxine/pyrimethamine (AQ-SP) and mefloquine-artesunate (MQ-AS), with and without primaquine (PQ) administered with the second dose of the schizonticide (AQ-SP; AQ-SP-PQ; MQ-AS; MQ-AS-PQ). Efficacy was determined by thick smear on days 1, 4 and 8 after the beginning of treatment. A total of 82 patients (19-23/group) were recruited. After AQ-SP administration, gametocytemia steadily increased until day 8. With AQ-SP-PQ, a marked decline in gametocytemia was detected on days 4 and 8. MQ-AS treatment resulted in reduced gametocytemia on days 4 and 8, and with MQ-AS-PQ it was reduced even further. None of the treatments cleared gametocytemia by day 8. Currently, artemisinin-based combination therapies plus PQ are the recommended treatment option against falciparum malaria; however, further studies are required to optimize the use of PQ. Issues to be addressed include the optimal time of administration, treatment duration, optimal daily and total dose, and day of evaluation of the gametocytocidal effect. In falciparum malaria, the WHO recommends a maximum of 4days of treatment; consequently, an effective regimen must clear asexual parasites and symptoms within this time frame. The same criteria should be taken into account when evaluating the anti-gametocyte activity.

UI  - 22232457
TI  - Rolling Malaria Indicator Surveys (rMIS): a potential district-level malaria monitoring and evaluation (M&E) tool for program managers.
AB  - Novel malaria monitoring and evaluation (M&E) tools are urgently needed to complement the current "gold standard" Malaria Indicator Surveys (MIS). Rapid up scaling of malaria control efforts is resulting in substantial reductions in malaria burden across sub-Saharan Africa. As transmission goes down, timely, accurate, sub-national, and district level burden estimates are needed to guide increasingly targeted control efforts in remaining hotspot areas. To test a novel district level M&E tool, we have conducted a continuous ("rolling") MIS (rMIS) since May 2010 covering 50 villages in Chikhwawa district in southern Malawi, essentially adapting an existing cross-sectional evaluation tool into a continuous monitoring tool. Here, we report on our experience after completing the first full year of monthly data collection focusing on the methods, operational aspects, and estimated costs of rMIS in a programmatic setting. The potential applicability of this promising M&E approach for district-level program managers and control efforts is discussed.

UI  - 22232454
TI  - Randomized, prospective, three-arm study to confirm the auditory safety and efficacy of artemether-lumefantrine in Colombian patients with uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria.
AB  - The safety of artemether-lumefantrine in patients with acute, uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria was investigated prospectively using the auditory brainstem response (ABR) and pure-tone thresholds. Secondary outcomes included polymerase chain reaction-corrected cure rates. Patients were randomly assigned in a 3:1:1 ratio to either artemether-lumefantrine (N = 159), atovaquone-proguanil (N = 53), or artesunate-mefloquine (N = 53). The null hypothesis (primary outcome), claiming that the percentage of patients with a baseline to Day-7 ABR Wave III latency increase of > 0.30 msec is  15% after administration of artemether-lumefantrine, was rejected; 2.6% of patients (95% confidence interval: 0.7-6.6) exceeded 0.30 msec, i.e., significantly below 15% (P < 0.0001). A model-based analysis found no apparent relationship between drug exposure and ABR change. In all three groups, average improvements (2-4 dB) in pure-tone thresholds were observed, and polymerase chain reaction-corrected cure rates were > 95% to Day 42. The results support the continued safe and efficacious use of artemether-lumefantrine in uncomplicated falciparum malaria.

UI  - 22228627
TI  - Hepcidin is the major predictor of erythrocyte iron incorporation in anemic African children.
AB  - Iron supplementation strategies in the developing world remain controversial because of fears of exacerbating prevalent infectious diseases. Understanding the conditions in which iron will be absorbed and incorporated into erythrocytes is therefore important. We studied Gambian children with either postmalarial or nonmalarial anemia, who were given oral iron supplements daily for 30 days. Supplements administered on days 1 and 15 contained the stable iron isotopes (57)Fe and (58)Fe, respectively, and erythrocyte incorporation was measured in blood samples drawn 14 days later. We investigated how the iron-regulatory hormone hepcidin and other inflammatory/iron-related indices, all measured on the day of isotope administration, correlated with erythrocyte iron incorporation. In univariate analyses, hepcidin, ferritin, C-reactive protein, and soluble transferrin receptor (sTfR) strongly predicted incorporation of (57)Fe given on day 1, while hepcidin, ferritin, and sTfR/log ferritin correlated with (58)Fe incorporation. In a final multivariate model, the most consistent predictor of erythrocyte isotope incorporation was hepcidin. We conclude that under conditions of competing signals (anemia, iron deficiency, and infection), hepcidin powerfully controls use of dietary iron. We suggest that low-cost point-of-care hepcidin assays would aid iron supplementation programs in the developing world.

UI  - 22225997
TI  - The effect of household heads training about the use of treated bed nets on the burden of malaria and anaemia in under-five children: a cluster randomized trial in Ethiopia.
AB  - Australia and New Zealand Clinical Trials Register (ANZCTR): ACTRN12610000035022.

UI  - 22208409
TI  - Cluster-randomized study of intermittent preventive treatment for malaria in infants (IPTi) in southern Tanzania: evaluation of impact on survival.
AB  - The lack of evidence of an effect of IPTi on survival could be a false negative result due to a lack of power or imbalance of unmeasured confounders. Alternatively, there could be no mortality impact of IPTi due to low coverage, late administration, drug resistance, decreased malaria transmission or improvements in vector control and case management. This study raises important questions for programme evaluation design.

UI  - 22198787
TI  - Rapid diagnostic test-based management of malaria: an effectiveness study in Papua New Guinean infants with Plasmodium falciparum and Plasmodium vivax malaria.
AB  - Treatment for malaria based on RDT results is safe and feasible even in infants living in areas with moderate to high endemicity for both P. falciparum and P. vivax infections.

UI  - 22185672
TI  - Plasmodium falciparum population dynamics during the early phase of anti-malarial drug treatment in Tanzanian children with acute uncomplicated malaria.
AB  - PCR analyses from multiple blood samples collected during the early treatment phase revealed a complex picture of parasite sub-populations. This underlines the importance of interpreting PCR-outcomes with caution and suggests that the present use of PCR-adjustment from paired blood samples in anti-malarial drug trials may overestimate assessment of drug efficacy in high transmission areas in Africa.The study is registered at http://www.clinicaltrials.gov with identifier NCT00336375.

UI  - 22180622
TI  - A simplified intravenous artesunate regimen for severe malaria.
AB  - NCT00522132.

UI  - 22176931
TI  - Similar efficacy and safety of artemether-lumefantrine (Coartem) in African infants and children with uncomplicated falciparum malaria across different body weight ranges.
AB  - Efficacy of AL in uncomplicated falciparum malaria is similar across body weight dosing groups as currently recommended in the label with no clinically relevant differences in safety or tolerability. AL dosing based on body weight remains advisable.

UI  - 22131908
TI  - Effect of supplementation with zinc and other micronutrients on malaria in Tanzanian children: a randomised trial.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00623857

UI  - 22123685
TI  - HIV-1 protease inhibitors and clinical malaria: a secondary analysis of the AIDS Clinical Trials Group A5208 study.
AB  - HIV-1 protease inhibitors (PIs) have antimalarial activity in vitro and in murine models. The potential beneficial effect of HIV-1 PIs on malaria has not been studied in clinical settings. We used data from Adult AIDS Clinical Trials Group A5208 sites where malaria is endemic to compare the incidence of clinically diagnosed malaria among HIV-infected adult women randomized to either lopinavir/ritonavir (LPV/r)-based antiretroviral therapy (ART) or to nevirapine (NVP)-based ART. We calculated hazard ratios and 95% confidence intervals. We conducted a recurrent events analysis that included both first and second clinical malarial episodes and also conducted analyses to assess the sensitivity of results to outcome misclassification. Among the 445 women in this analysis, 137 (31%) received a clinical diagnosis of malaria at least once during follow-up. Of these 137, 72 (53%) were randomized to LPV/r-based ART. Assignment to the LPV/r treatment group (n = 226) was not consistent with a large decrease in the hazard of first clinical malarial episode (hazard ratio = 1.11 [0.79 to 1.56]). The results were similar in the recurrent events analysis. Sensitivity analyses indicated the results were robust to reasonable levels of outcome misclassification. In this study, the treatment with LPV/r compared to NVP had no apparent beneficial effect on the incidence of clinical malaria among HIV-infected adult women. Additional research concerning the effects of PI-based therapy on the incidence of malaria diagnosed by more specific criteria and among groups at a higher risk for severe disease is warranted.

UI  - 22114867
TI  - Use of a pLDH-based dipstick in the diagnostic and therapeutic follow-up of malaria patients in Mali.
AB  - OptiMal-IT test revealed similar results when compared to microscopy which is considered the gold standard for malaria diagnostics. The test was found to have a short processing time and was easier to use. These advantages may improve malaria case management by providing a diagnostic and drug efficacy follow-up tool to peripheral health centres with limited resources.

UI  - 22102856
TI  - Declining responsiveness of Plasmodium falciparum infections to artemisinin-based combination treatments on the Kenyan coast.
AB  - Controlled-Trials.com ISRCTN88705995.

UI  - 22099005
TI  - Adherence to artemether/lumefantrine treatment in children under real-life situations in rural Tanzania.
AB  - A follow-up study was conducted to determine the magnitude of and factors related to adherence to artemether/lumefantrine (ALu) treatment in rural settings in Tanzania. Children in five villages of Kilosa District treated at health facilities were followed-up at their homes on Day 7 after the first dose of ALu. For those found to be positive using a rapid diagnostic test for malaria and treated with ALu, their caretakers were interviewed on drug administration habits. In addition, capillary blood samples were collected on Day 7 to determine lumefantrine concentrations. The majority of children (392/444; 88.3%) were reported to have received all doses, in time. Non-adherence was due to untimeliness rather than missing doses and was highest for the last two doses. No significant difference was found between blood lumefantrine concentrations among adherent (median 286 nmol/l) and non-adherent [median 261 nmol/l; range 25 nmol/l (limit of quantification) to 9318 nmol/l]. Children from less poor households were more likely to adhere to therapy than the poor [odds ratio (OR)=2.45, 95% CI 1.35-4.45; adjusted OR=2.23, 95% CI 1.20-4.13]. The high reported rate of adherence to ALu in rural areas is encouraging and needs to be preserved to reduce the risk of emergence of resistant strains. The age-based dosage schedule and lack of adherence to ALu treatment guidelines by health facility staff may explain both the huge variability in observed lumefantrine concentrations and the lack of difference in concentrations between the two groups.

UI  - 22096496
TI  - Effect of transmission reduction by insecticide-treated bednets (ITNs) on antimalarial drug resistance in western Kenya.
AB  - Despite the clear public health benefit of insecticide-treated bednets (ITNs), the impact of malaria transmission-reduction by vector control on the spread of drug resistance is not well understood. In the present study, the effect of sustained transmission reduction by ITNs on the prevalence of Plasmodium falciparum gene mutations associated with resistance to the antimalarial drugs sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine (SP) and chloroquine (CQ) in children under the age of five years was investigated during an ITN trial in Asembo area, western Kenya. During the ITN trial, the national first line antimalarial treatment changed from CQ to SP. Smear-positive samples collected from cross sectional surveys prior to ITN introduction (baseline, n=250) and five years post-ITN intervention (year 5 survey, n=242) were genotyped for single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) at dhfr-51, 59, 108, 164 and dhps-437, 540 (SP resistance), and pfcrt-76 and pfmdr1-86 (CQ resistance). The association between the drug resistance mutations and epidemiological variables was evaluated. There were significant increases in the prevalence of SP dhps mutations and the dhfr/dhps quintuple mutant, and a significant reduction in the proportion of mixed infections detected at dhfr-51, 59 and dhps-437, 540 SNPs from baseline to the year 5 survey. There was no change in the high prevalence of pfcrt-76 and pfmdr1-86 mutations. Multivariable regression analysis further showed that current antifolate use and year of survey were significantly associated with more SP drug resistance mutations. These results suggest that increased antifolate drug use due to drug policy change likely led to the high prevalence of SP mutations 5 years post-ITN intervention and reduced transmission had no apparent effect on the existing high prevalence of CQ mutations. There is no evidence from the current study that sustained transmission reduction by ITNs reduces the prevalence of genes associated with malaria drug resistance.

UI  - 22095262
TI  - Antimalarial efficacy of a quantified extract of Nauclea pobeguinii stem bark in human adult volunteers with diagnosed uncomplicated falciparum malaria. Part 1: a clinical phase IIA trial.
AB  - The aim of this phase IIA clinical trial was to assess the efficacy of an 80% ethanolic quantified extract (containing 5.6% strictosamide as the putative active constituent) from Nauclea pobeguinii stem bark denoted as PR 259 CT1 in a small group of adult patients diagnosed with uncomplicated falciparum malaria. Results obtained from a phase I clinical trial on healthy male volunteers indicated that the oral administration during meals of two 500mg capsules three times daily (each eight hours) during seven days was well tolerated and showed only mild and self-resolving adverse effects. This PR 259 CT1 drug regimen was obtained by mathematical conversion of animal doses obtained in several in vivo studies in mice to human equivalent doses as in falciparum malaria patients. The phase IIA study was an open cohort study in eleven appraisable adult patients suffering from proven Plasmodium falciparum malaria. The study was specifically designed to assess the efficacy of PR 259 CT1 administered with a dose regimen of two 500mg capsules three times daily for three days, followed by outpatient treatment of one 500mg capsule three times daily for the next four days, in order to prove that this therapeutic dose, which was calculated from animal doses, was effective to treat adult malaria patients and consequently useful for a future Phase IIB clinical trial. This study would then substitute a dose-escalating trial, which in general is used to find the appropriate dose for clinical studies. The phase IIA clinical trial was carried out according to the WHO 2003 14-day test, and the results revealed that all eleven patients were completely cleared of parasitemia and fever on days 3, 7, and 14 except for one patient, who experienced a recurrence of parasitemia at days 7 until 14. Besides this adequate clinical and parasitological response (ACPR), this trial also demonstrated that PR 259 CT1 was well tolerated with only mild and self-resolving adverse effects including fatigue and headache, which were in accordance with those found in the phase I clinical trial. Moreover, all symptoms progressively disappeared, and no symptoms were observed on day 14. Although the number of patients included in this study was rather limited, the statistical analysis nevertheless suggested the efficacy and tolerability of PR 259 CT1, which indicated that this herbal medicinal product might be considered as a putative candidate for a large scale clinical trial.

UI  - 22093812
TI  - Pilot assessment of supply chains for pharmaceuticals and medical commodities for malaria, tuberculosis and HIV infection in Ethiopia.
AB  - To obtain preliminary data on the drug supply management system in Ethiopia, selected facilities were assessed for the availability of essential drugs and commodities for malaria, TB and HIV. Of the 48 surveyed hospitals and health centers, 9 (19%), 9 (19%) and 10 (21%) did not have malaria, TB or HIV drugs, respectively. Similarly, of 27 health posts, 9 (33%) and 6 (22%) did not have rapid diagnostic tests and antimalarial drugs, respectively. The findings indicated an inadequate availability of essential drugs and commodities in the surveyed facilities as well as weaknesses in human resources and training. Assessments of commodity supply chains to ensure operational program success and impact are important.

UI  - 22087077
TI  - A head-to-head comparison of four artemisinin-based combinations for treating uncomplicated malaria in African children: a randomized trial.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00393679; Pan African Clinical Trials Registry PACTR2009010000911750

UI  - 22052893
TI  - Prolonged protection provided by a single dose of atovaquone-proguanil for the chemoprophylaxis of Plasmodium falciparum malaria in a human challenge model.
AB  - Single-dose atovaquone-proguanil provides effective malaria chemoprophylaxis against P. falciparum challenge at dosing intervals supportive of weekly dosing. Postexposure prophylaxis 4 days after challenge was 100% effective.

UI  - 22052702
TI  - A simple dose regimen of artesunate and amodiaquine based on arm span- or age range for childhood falciparum malaria: a preliminary evaluation.
AB  - A dose regimen of artesunate and amodiaquine based on arm span- or age range (DRAAAS), derived from a study of 1674 children, was compared with standard dose regimen of the same drugs calculated according to body weight (SDRAA) in 68 malarious children. Children on DRAAAS received 0.8-1.0 of artesunate/kg and 0.9-1.2 times amodiaquine/kg compared with those receiving SDRAA. Parasite and fever clearance and fall in hematocrit in the first 3 days were similar; both regimens were well tolerated. DRAAAS is simple and is efficacious.

UI  - 22022814
TI  - Rectal artesunates, their utilization, and parental perception in the management of malaria in children from Abeokuta, southwestern Nigeria.
AB  - Utilization, efficacy, perception, and acceptability of rectal artesunates for treatment of malaria were assessed in 264 children below 5 years attending two tertiary health facilities in Abeokuta, Nigeria. The children systematically selected were 136 from State Hospital Ijaye and 128 from Federal Medical Centre (FMC), Idi-Aba. Body weights and vital statistics of the children were measured; and blood samples were collected before and 24h after administration of the rectal artesunates (Plasmotrim-50/200mg Artesunate) to evaluate the efficacy of the suppository. The first dose of rectal artesunate suppository was administered at a dose of 5-10mg/kg of body weight per rectum. Giemsa thin and thick films were employed to determine parasite species, malaria parasite count/L (MPC/L), and percentage of parasitized red blood cells (PPRBCs). Data were analyzed using SPSS version 16.0. Plasmodium falciparum was the malaria parasite identified by blood examination, with a pretreatment prevalence of 98.9%. Male children had higher infection rate (55%) than females (45%), and infection among age groups and weight groups varied. Chi-square analysis revealed a significant difference between weight and malaria parasite count (p<0.05). Post-treatment analysis after 24h showed that prevalence dropped by 73%, with females having higher crash rate (77%) than males (69%) but with no statistical difference (p>0.05) among the sexes. Chi-square analysis of pre- and post-treatment revealed a significant difference between MPC/L and PPRBC at p<0.05. This confirmed the efficacy of rectal artesunate in reducing the parasite density (parasitaemia) within 24h of treatment. On acceptability, 99.60% of parents accepted to use the suppository. However, 87.1% of parents preferred its usage, as it is easy to administer with no adverse effects when administered on their children. If health officials increase more public knowledge on the use of rectal artesunates, the high mortality now experienced in children under 5 years due to malaria disease would be greatly reduced.

UI  - 22004614
TI  - Cost-effectiveness of intermittent preventive treatment of malaria in infants (IPTi) for averting anaemia in Gabon: a comparison between intention to treat and according to protocol analyses.
AB  - Migration implies great challenges in the organization of health interventions that require repeat visits in Gabon. This was apparent in the study as the cost-effectiveness of IPTp-SP worsened when drop out from the prevention was taken into account. Despite such challenges, IPTi was both inexpensive and efficacious in averting cases of moderate anaemia in infants.

UI  - 22002979
TI  - Dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine versus chloroquine in the treatment of Plasmodium vivax malaria in Thailand: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - The efficacy of CQ in the treatment of P. vivax infections is declining on the Thai-Myanmar border. DP is an effective alternative treatment.

UI  - 21972607
TI  - [Efficacy of compound dihydroartemisinin/piperaquine in treatment of uncomplicated falciparum malaria in Myanmar].
AB  - The compound dihydroartemisinin/piperaquine shows a sound efficacy in treating uncomplicated falciparum malaria

UI  - 21962292
TI  - Efficacy of malaria prevention during pregnancy in an area of low and unstable transmission: an individually-randomised placebo-controlled trial using intermittent preventive treatment and insecticide-treated nets in the Kabale Highlands, southwestern Uganda.
AB  - Intermittent preventive treatment of malaria during pregnancy (IPTp) and insecticide-treated nets (ITN) are recommended malaria interventions during pregnancy; however, there is limited information on their efficacy in areas of low malaria transmission in sub-Saharan Africa. An individually-randomised placebo-controlled trial involving 5775 women of all parities examined the effect of IPTp, ITNs alone, or ITNs used in combination with IPTp on maternal anaemia and low birth weight (LBW) in a highland area of southwestern Uganda. The overall prevalence of malaria infection, maternal anaemia and LBW was 15.0%, 14.7% and 6.5%, respectively. Maternal and fetal outcomes were generally remarkably similar across all intervention groups (P>0.05 for all outcomes examined). A marginal difference in maternal haemoglobin was observed in the dual intervention group (12.57g/dl) compared with the IPTp and ITN alone groups (12.40g/dl and 12.44g/dl, respectively; P=0.04), but this was too slight to be of clinical importance. In conclusion, none of the preventive strategies was found to be superior to the others, and no substantial additional benefit to providing both IPTp and ITNs during routine antenatal services was observed. With ITNs offering a number of advantages over IPTp, yet showing comparable efficacy, we discuss why ITNs could be an appropriate preventive strategy for malaria control during pregnancy in areas of low and unstable transmission.

UI  - 24830201
TI  - [Therapeutic efficacy and safety of compound dihydroartemisinin/piperaquine for uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum infection in Laiza City of Myanmar bordering on China].
AB  - DHAPIP is efficacious and safe for the treatment of uncomplicated falciparum malaria in Laiza city of Myanmar in the border area.

UI  - 21947399
TI  - Interaction between artemether-lumefantrine and nevirapine-based antiretroviral therapy in HIV-1-infected patients.
AB  - Artemether-lumefantrine and nevirapine-based antiretroviral therapy (ART) are the most commonly recommended first-line treatments for malaria and HIV, respectively, in Africa. Artemether, lumefantrine, and nevirapine are metabolized by the cytochrome P450 3A4 enzyme system, which nevirapine induces, creating potential for important drug interactions. In a parallel-design pharmacokinetic study, concentration-time profiles were obtained in two groups of HIV-infected patients: ART-nave patients and those stable on nevirapine-based therapy. Both groups received the recommended artemether-lumefantrine dose. Patients were admitted for intense pharmacokinetic sampling (0 to 72 h) with outpatient sampling until 21 days. Concentrations of lumefantrine, artemether, dihydroartemisinin, and nevirapine were determined by validated liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) methods. The primary outcome was observed day 7 lumefantrine concentrations, as these are associated with therapeutic response in malaria. We enrolled 36 patients (32 females). Median (range) day 7 lumefantrine concentrations were 622 ng/ml (185 to 2,040 ng/ml) and 336 ng/ml (29 to 934 ng/ml) in the nevirapine and ART-nave groups, respectively (P = 0.0002). The median artemether area under the plasma concentration-time curve from 0 to 8 h [AUC((0-8 h))] (P < 0.0001) and dihydroartemisinin AUC((60-68 h)) (P = 0.01) were lower in the nevirapine group. Combined artemether and dihydroartemisinin exposure decreased over time only in the nevirapine group (geometric mean ratio [GMR], 0.76 [95% confidence interval {CI}, 0.65 to 0.90]; P < 0.0001) and increased with the weight-adjusted artemether dose (GMR, 2.12 [95% CI, 1.31 to 3.45]; P = 0.002). Adverse events were similar between groups, with no difference in electrocardiographic Fridericia corrected QT and P-R intervals at the expected time of maximum lumefantrine concentration (T(max)). Nevirapine-based ART decreased artemether and dihydroartemisinin AUCs but unexpectedly increased lumefantrine exposure. The mechanism of the lumefantrine interaction remains to be elucidated. Studies investigating the interaction of nevirapine and artemether-lumefantrine in HIV-infected patients with malaria are urgently needed.

UI  - 21936885
TI  - Effects of amodiaquine and artesunate on sulphadoxine-pyrimethamine pharmacokinetic parameters in children under five in Mali.
AB  - Despite slight differences in pyrimethamine volumes of distribution and elimination half-life, these data show similar exposure to SP over the critical initial seven days of treatment and support the current use of SP in combination with either AQ or AS for uncomplicated falciparum malaria treatment in young Malian children.

UI  - 21933376
TI  - Cost analysis of school-based intermittent screening and treatment of malaria in Kenya.
AB  - In the current context, school-based IST is a relatively expensive malaria intervention, but reducing the complexity of delivery can result in considerable savings in the cost of intervention. (Costs are reported in US$ 2010).

UI  - 21921220
TI  - Adherence to treatment with artemether-lumefantrine for uncomplicated malaria in rural Malawi.
AB  - Adherence to AL treatment for uncomplicated malaria was moderate, and children, who are the most likely to die of malaria, were less adherent than adults. Efforts to improve adherence should be focused on this vulnerable group. Interventions including the introduction of child-friendly antimalarial formulations, direct observation of the first dose, use of the AL package as a visual aid for instructions, and enhancing patient preference for AL could potentially increase AL adherence and overall effectiveness.

UI  - 21896825
TI  - Efficacy and effectiveness of mefloquine and artesunate combination therapy for uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in the Peruvian Amazon.
AB  - We evaluated the efficacy and effectiveness of mefloquine (MQ) plus artesunate (AS) to treat patients with uncomplicated malaria in the Peruvian Amazon Basin in April 2005-March 2006. Patients  1 year of age with fever (axillary temperature  37.5C) or history of fever and Plasmodium falciparum monoinfection were included. Patients received antimalarial treatment with MQ (12.5 mg/kg/day for two days) and AS (4.0 mg/kg/day for three days) either by directly observed therapy or without directly observed therapy. After a 28-day follow-up, treatment efficacy and effectiveness were assessed on the basis of clinical and parasitologic outcomes. Ninety-six patients were enrolled in each study group; nine patients were lost to follow-up. All patients, except for one in the observed group, demonstrated adequate clinical and parasitologic response; none had detectable parasitemia on day 3. The efficacy of MQ + AS efficacy was 98.9% (95% confidence interval = 94.1-100.0%) and the effectiveness was 100.0% (95% confidence interval = 95.9-100.0%). Our study shows that MQ + AS is highly efficacious in the Peruvian Amazon.

UI  - 21890160
TI  - Evaluation of the safety and tolerability of a short higher-dose primaquine regimen for presumptive anti-relapse therapy in healthy subjects.
AB  - The safety and tolerability of primaquine (PQ) administered as a short higher-dose (30mg twice daily for 7 days) regimen in 203 Australian Defence Force personnel was evaluated in an open-label presumptive anti-relapse therapy study. No clinically significant differences were measured in the subjects' haematological and biochemical indices before and after PQ treatment. The most common adverse events were nausea, abdominal pain, headache and insomnia, many of which were mild in severity (30%; 60/203) and transient; 19% of subjects (39/203) experienced moderate (with some interference with daily duties requiring no or minimal medical therapy) adverse events. Two subjects (1%) had severe gastrointestinal adverse events requiring cessation of medication, but neither was seriously ill. Ten subjects (5%) had peripheral cyanosis (blueness of the lips), but none reported any respiratory compromise. These findings suggest that the short higher-dose PQ regimen is safe and well tolerated, which could improve PQ compliance and effectiveness.

UI  - 21887214
TI  - A pilot randomised trial of induced blood-stage Plasmodium falciparum infections in healthy volunteers for testing efficacy of new antimalarial drugs.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT01055002.

UI  - 21876056
TI  - Population pharmacokinetics of artemether, lumefantrine, and their respective metabolites in Papua New Guinean children with uncomplicated malaria.
AB  - There are sparse published data relating to the pharmacokinetic properties of artemether, lumefantrine, and their active metabolites in children, especially desbutyl-lumefantrine. We studied 13 Papua New Guinean children aged 5 to 10 years with uncomplicated malaria who received the six recommended doses of artemether (1.7 mg/kg of body weight) plus lumefantrine (10 mg/kg), given with fat over 3 days. Intensive blood sampling was carried out over 42 days. Plasma artemether, dihydroartemisinin, lumefantrine, and desbutyl-lumefantrine were assayed using liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry or high-performance liquid chromatography. Multicompartmental pharmacokinetic models for a drug plus its metabolite were developed using a population approach that included plasma artemether and dihydroartemisinin concentrations below the limit of quantitation. Although artemether bioavailability was variable and its clearance increased by 67.8% with each dose, the median areas under the plasma concentration-time curve from 0 h to infinity (AUC(0-)s) for artemether and dihydroartemisinin (3,063 and 2,839 g  h/liter, respectively) were similar to those reported previously in adults with malaria. For lumefantrine, the median AUC(0-) (459,980 g  h/liter) was also similar to that in adults with malaria. These data support the higher dose recommended for children weighing 15 to 35 kg (35% higher than that for a 50-kg adult) but question the recommendation for a lower dose in children weighing 12.5 to 15 kg. The median desbutyl-lumefantrine/lumefantrine ratio in the children in our study was 1.13%, within the range reported for adults and higher at later time points because of the longer desbutyl-lumefantrine terminal elimination half-life. A combined desbutyl-lumefantrine and lumefantrine AUC(0-) weighted on in vitro antimalarial activity was inversely associated with recurrent parasitemia, suggesting that both the parent drug and the metabolite contribute to the treatment outcome of artemether-lumefantrine.

UI  - 21838909
TI  - Repeated treatment of recurrent uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in Senegal with fixed-dose artesunate plus amodiaquine versus fixed-dose artemether plus lumefantrine: a randomized, open-label trial.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov identifier NCT00540410.

UI  - 21827706
TI  - Randomized trials of artemisinin-piperaquine, dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine phosphate and artemether-lumefantrine for the treatment of multi-drug resistant falciparum malaria in Cambodia-Thailand border area.
AB  - The trial was registered at Chinese Clinical Trial Register under identifier 2005L01041.

UI  - 21820166
TI  - The effect of mobile phone text-message reminders on Kenyan health workers' adherence to malaria treatment guidelines: a cluster randomised trial.
AB  - The Wellcome Trust.

UI  - 21810747
TI  - Brain swelling and mannitol therapy in adult cerebral malaria: a randomized trial.
AB  - Brain swelling on CT scan is a common finding in adult patients with cerebral malaria but is not related to coma depth or survival. Mannitol therapy as adjunctive treatment for brain swelling in adult cerebral malaria prolongs coma duration and may be harmful.

UI  - 21798054
TI  - In vivo efficacy of artemether-lumefantrine against uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in Central Ethiopia.
AB  - NCT01052584.

UI  - 21774826
TI  - Multicentric assessment of the efficacy and tolerability of dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine compared to artemether-lumefantrine in the treatment of uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in sub-Saharan Africa.
AB  - Dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine was as effective and well-tolerated as artemether-lumefantrine in the treatment of uncomplicated falciparum malaria. In addition, dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine, a single daily dose, could be an advantage over artemether-lumefantrine in Africa because of better treatment observance.

UI  - 21762615
TI  - Malaria, Oromia regional state, Ethiopia, 2001-2006.
AB  - 

UI  - 21752262
TI  - Inhaled nitric oxide for the adjunctive therapy of severe malaria: protocol for a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT01255215.

UI  - 21750697
TI  - Malaria rapid testing by community health workers is effective and safe for targeting malaria treatment: randomised cross-over trial in Tanzania.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00301015.

UI  - 21740570
TI  - Comparative study of the efficacy and tolerability of dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine-trimethoprim versus artemether-lumefantrine in the treatment of uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in Cameroon, Ivory Coast and Senegal.
AB  - The overall efficacy and tolerability of DPT are similar to those of AL. The ease of taking DPT and its short treatment course (two days) may help to improve adherence to treatment. Taken together, these findings make this medicinal product a treatment of choice for the effective management of malaria in Africa.

UI  - 21709098
TI  - Pharmacokinetics of amodiaquine and desethylamodiaquine in pregnant and postpartum women with Plasmodium vivax malaria.
AB  - In order to study the pharmacokinetic properties of amodiaquine and desethylamodiaquine during pregnancy, 24 pregnant women in the second and third trimesters of pregnancy and with Plasmodium vivax malaria were treated with amodiaquine (10 mg/kg of body weight/day) for 3 days. The same women were studied again at 3 months postpartum. Plasma was analyzed for amodiaquine and desethylamodiaquine by use of a liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry method. Individual concentration-time data were evaluated using noncompartmental analysis. There were no clinically relevant differences in the pharmacokinetics of amodiaquine and desethylamodiaquine between pregnant (n = 24) and postpartum (n = 18) women. The results suggest that the current amodiaquine dosing regimen is adequate for the treatment of P. vivax infections during pregnancy.

UI  - 21709087
TI  - A small amount of fat does not affect piperaquine exposure in patients with malaria.
AB  - Dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine is a new, highly effective, and well-tolerated combination treatment for uncomplicated falciparum malaria. The lipophilic characteristic of piperaquine suggests that administration together with fat will increase the oral bioavailability of the drug, and this has been reported for healthy volunteers. This pharmacokinetic study monitored 30 adult patients with uncomplicated falciparum malaria for 4.5 months to evaluate the effects of the concomitant intake of fat on the total piperaquine exposure. The fixed-drug combination of dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine was given with water to fasting patients (n = 15) or was coadministered with 200 ml milk containing 6.4 g fat (n = 15). The drug combination was generally well tolerated, and there were no severe adverse effects reported for either group during the study. Total piperaquine exposure (area under the concentration-time curve from zero to infinity [AUC(0-)]; results are given as medians [ranges]) were not statistically different between fed (29.5 h  g/ml [20.6 to 58.7 h  g/ml]) and fasting (23.9 h  g/ml [11.9 to 72.9 h  g/ml]) patients, but the interindividual variation was reduced in the fed group. Overall, none of the pharmacokinetic parameters differed statistically between the groups. Total piperaquine exposure correlated well with the day 7 concentrations in the fasted group, but the fed group showed a poor correlation. In conclusion, the coadministration of 6.4 g fat did not have any significant effect on piperaquine pharmacokinetics in the treatment of uncomplicated malaria.

UI  - 21699697
TI  - Clinical trial of extended-dose chloroquine for treatment of resistant falciparum malaria among Afghan refugees in Pakistan.
AB  - CQ is not suitable for first-line falciparum treatment in Afghan refugee communities. The extended-dose CQ regimen can overcome 39% of resistant infections that would recrudesce under the standard regimen, but the high failure rate after directly observed treatment demonstrates its use is inappropriate.

UI  - 21677532
TI  - Treating common illnesses among children under five years: a portrayal of health-seeking behaviours and practices in the northern areas of Pakistan.
AB  - Health education and health promotion programs must address the knowledge gaps about children's illnesses and advocate appropriate health-seeking behaviours. Issues around quality of care in government centres and affordability in the private health sector must be addressed in order to improve health service utilization.

UI  - 21670177
TI  - Pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic characteristics of a new pediatric formulation of artemether-lumefantrine in African children with uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria.
AB  - The pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties of a new pediatric formulation of artemether-lumefantrine, dispersible tablet, were determined within the context of a multicenter, randomized, parallel-group study. In an exploratory approach, we compared a new pediatric formulation with the tablet formulation administered crushed in the treatment of African children with uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria. Patients were randomized to 3 different dosing groups (weights of 5 to <15 kg, 15 and <25 kg, and 25 to <35 kg). Treatment was administered twice daily over 3 days. Plasma concentrations of artemether and its active metabolite, dihydroartemisinin (DHA), were determined at 1 and 2 h after the first dose of dispersible (n = 91) and crushed (n = 93) tablets. A full pharmacokinetic profile of lumefantrine was reconstituted on the basis of 310 (dispersible tablet) and 315 (crushed tablet) plasma samples, collected at 6 different time points (1 sample per patient). Dispersible and crushed tablets showed similar artemether and DHA maximum concentrations in plasma (C(max)) for the different body weight groups, with overall means of 175  168 and 190  168 ng/ml, respectively, for artemether and 64.7  58.1 and 63.7  65.0 ng/ml, respectively, for DHA. For lumefantrine, the population C(max) were 6.3 g/ml (dispersible tablet) and 7.7 g/ml (crushed tablet), whereas the areas under the concentration-time curves from time zero to the time of the last quantifiable plasma concentration measured were 574 and 636 g  h/ml, respectively. For both formulations, descriptive quintile analyses showed no apparent association between artemether/DHA C(max) and parasite clearance time or between the lumefantrine C(max) and the occurrence of adverse events or corrected QT interval changes. The results suggest that the dispersible tablet provides adequate systemic exposure to artemether, DHA, and lumefantrine in African children with uncomplicated P. falciparum malaria.

UI  - 21666744
TI  - Randomized trial of safety and effectiveness of chlorproguanil-dapsone and lumefantrine-artemether for uncomplicated malaria in children in the Gambia.
AB  - Clinicaltrials.gov NCT00118794.

UI  - 21655317
TI  - The impact of retail-sector delivery of artemether-lumefantrine on malaria treatment of children under five in Kenya: a cluster randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN59275137 and Kenya Pharmacy and Poisons Board Ethical Committee for Clinical Trials PPB/ECCT/08/07.

UI  - 21631932
TI  - Paracetamol versus placebo in treatment of non-severe malaria in children in Guinea-Bissau: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - NCT00137566.

UI  - 21622538
TI  - Oral artesunate-amodiaquine and artemether-lumefantrine in the treatment of uncomplicated hyperparasitaemic Plasmodium falciparum malaria in children.
AB  - The therapeutic efficacy, changes in haematocrit and declines in parasitaemias were evaluated in 56 children with uncomplicated falciparum hyperparasitaemia after oral artesunate-amodiaquine or artemether-lumefantrine. All children recovered clinically within 2 days and without progression to severe malaria. Falls in haematocrit in the first 3 days after treatment began were similar and <5%. Declines in parasitaemias were monoexponential with both treatments with an estimated half-life of 1 h.

UI  - 21603629
TI  - Artesunate dose escalation for the treatment of uncomplicated malaria in a region of reported artemisinin resistance: a randomized clinical trial.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00722150.

UI  - 21569596
TI  - High prevalence of dhfr triple mutant and correlation with high rates of sulphadoxine-pyrimethamine treatment failures in vivo in Gabonese children.
AB  - There is a high prevalence of dhfr triple mutant with some dhps point mutations in Gabon, in line with treatment failures observed, and molecular markers of SP resistance should be closely monitored.

UI  - 21564429
TI  - Efficacy of chloroquine and sulphadoxine-pyrimethamine either alone or in combination before introduction of ACT as first-line therapy in uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in Jalpaiguri District, West Bengal, India.
AB  - In Jalpaiguri District the overall failure rate of CQ was 61% and of SP 14%, which was well above the WHO recommended cut-off threshold level (10%) for change of drug policy.

UI  - 21548983
TI  - Population pharmacokinetics of artesunate and dihydroartemisinin in pregnant and non-pregnant women with malaria.
AB  - In this analysis, pharmacokinetic modelling suggests that pregnant women have accelerated DHA clearance compared to non-pregnant women receiving orally administered AS. These findings, in conjunction with a previous non-compartmental analysis of the modelled data, provide further evidence that higher AS doses would be required to maintain similar DHA levels in pregnant women as achieved in non-pregnant controls.

UI  - 21540395
TI  - Therapeutic efficacy and effects of artemether-lumefantrine and artesunate-amodiaquine coformulated or copackaged on malaria-associated anemia in children with uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in Southwest Nigeria.
AB  - The therapeutic efficacy and effects of artemether-lumefantrine (AL) and artesunate-amodiaquine co-formulated (AAcf) or co-packaged (AAcp) on malaria-associated anemia (MAA) were evaluated in 285 children < 12 years of age with uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria randomized to receive one of the three drug combinations. Fever and parasite clearance times were similar in all treatment groups. Mean drug-attributable fall in hematocrit (DAFH), defined as difference between hematocrit values pre- and 3 d post-initiation of treatment, was low (< 4.5%) and rates of recovery from MAA were similar with all treatments. Mean areas under curve (AUCs) of the plot of deficit in hematocrit levels from 30% versus time in anemic children were similar in all groups. All regimens were well tolerated. AL, AAcf and AAcp cleared fever and parasitemia rapidly and had similar rates of resolution of MAA after treatment in malarious Nigerian children.

UI  - 21529383
TI  - Intravenous artesunate for severe malaria in travelers, Europe.
AB  - Multicenter trials in Southeast Asia have shown better survival rates among patients with severe malaria, particularly those with high parasitemia levels, treated with intravenous (IV) artesunate than among those treated with quinine. In Europe, quinine is still the primary treatment for severe malaria. We conducted a retrospective analysis for 25 travelers with severe malaria who returned from malaria-endemic regions and were treated at 7 centers in Europe. All patients survived. Treatment with IV artesunate rapidly reduced parasitemia levels. In 6 patients at 5 treatment centers, a self-limiting episode of unexplained hemolysis occurred after reduction of parasitemia levels. Five patients required a blood transfusion. Patients with posttreatment hemolysis had received higher doses of IV artesunate than patients without hemolysis. IV artesunate was an effective alternative to quinine for treatment of malaria patients in Europe. Patients should be monitored for signs of hemolysis, especially after parasitologic cure.

UI  - 21529365
TI  - Reduction of anti-malarial consumption after rapid diagnostic tests implementation in Dar es Salaam: a before-after and cluster randomized controlled study.
AB  - Programmatic implementation of mRDTs in a moderately endemic area reduced drastically over-treatment with anti-malarials. Properly trained clinicians with adequate support complied with the recommendation of not treating patients with negative results. Implementation of mRDT should be integrated hand-in-hand with training on the management of other causes of fever to prevent irrational use of antibiotics.

UI  - 21529344
TI  - Coverage of intermittent prevention treatment with sulphadoxine-pyrimethamine among pregnant women and congenital malaria in Cte d'Ivoire.
AB  - IPT-SP decreases the rate of placental malaria parasitaemia and has a strong dose effect. Despite relatively successful IPT-SP coverage in Cte d'Ivoire, substantial commitments from national authorities are urgently required for such public health campaigns. Strategies, such as providing IPT-SP free of charge and directly observing treatment, should be implemented to increase the use of IPT-SP as well as other prophylactic methods.

UI  - 21519221
TI  - A simple dose regimen of artesunate and amodiaquine based on age or body weight range for uncomplicated falciparum malaria in children: comparison of therapeutic efficacy with standard dose regimen of artesunate and amodiaquine and artemether-lumefantrine.
AB  - A new dose regimen of artesunate and amodiaquine (NDRAA) based on age or body weight range was compared with standard dose regimen of artesunate and amodiaquine (SDRAA) calculated according to body weight and with fixed-dose artesunate-amodiaquine (FDAA) and artemether-lumefantrine (AL) in 304 children afflicted by malaria aged 15 years or younger. In initial comparison (n = 208), children on NDRAA received 1-3 times amodiaquine per kilogram of body weight and 1-1.5 times of artesunate per kilogram of body weight compared with those receiving SDRAA. Parasite but not fever clearance was significantly faster in children who received NDRAA (19.4  8.4 hours vs. 24.6  15.5 hours, P = 0.003). Polymerase chain reaction-uncorrected cure rates on days 28-42 were also significantly higher in children who received NDRAA (P < 0.02 in all cases). Therapeutic responses in children younger than 5 years (n = 96) treated with NDRAA, FDAA, and AL were similar. Changes in hematocrit values and reported adverse events after commencing therapy were similar in those who received NDRAA and SDRAA. All drug regimens were well tolerated. NDRAA based on age or body weight range is simple, is therapeutically superior to SDRAA calculated according to body weight, and is as efficacious as AL in children younger than 5 years.

UI  - 21453465
TI  - Therapeutic efficacy of chloroquine for treatment of Plasmodium vivax malaria cases in Halaba district, South Ethiopia.
AB  - This report revealed the rise in treatment failure (13% [95% CI = 0.074 - 0.217]) as compared to earlier reports from Ethiopia. It signals the spreading of chloroquine resistant P. vivax (CRPv) strains to malaria endemic areas of Ethiopia. It is recommended that all concerned bodies should act aggressively before further expansion of the current drug resistant malaria.

UI  - 21427394
TI  - Efficacy and effectiveness of artemether-lumefantrine after initial and repeated treatment in children <5 years of age with acute uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in rural Tanzania: a randomized trial.
AB  - ISRCTN69189899.

UI  - 21416034
TI  - Effectiveness of a community intervention on malaria in rural Tanzania - a randomised controlled trial.
AB  - The decrease in anaemia was significantly associated with the intervention, whereas the fever and body weight trends might be explained by other malaria control activities or seasonal/climate effects in the area. The community intervention was shown to be feasible in the study context.

UI  - 21413089
TI  - Effects of lime juice on malaria parasite clearance.
AB  - One hundred and twenty children with acute uncomplicated malaria who were managed at the children's outpatient department of the Wesley Guild Hospital, Ilesa (a unit of Obafemi Awolowo University Teaching Hospitals' Complex, Ile-Ife, Osun state, Nigeria) were recruited into the study to determine the effects of lime juice on malaria parasite clearance. These children were randomized into treatment with World Health Organization recommended antimalarials (artemisinin combination therapy, ACT) either alone or with lime juice. Nine of them were lost to follow-up, four were in the group that were managed with ACT and lime, and five in the group that were managed on ACT alone. The average (SD) time to achieve >75% reduction in parasite load was significantly lower in patients on ACT and lime; 30.52.4h against 38.63.3h for those on ACT alone (p<0.001). Also, while a significantly higher proportion of children on antimalarial drugs and lime juice achieved complete parasite clearance by 72h of therapy (p=0.007), ten (18.2%) patients without lime had early treatment failure (p=0.003). There were no side effects with the use of lime juice. It may therefore be inferred, from this preliminary work, that lime juice when used with the appropriate antimalarial may enhance malaria parasite clearance especially in those with uncomplicated malaria.

UI  - 21410954
TI  - Effectiveness of artemether-lumefantrine provided by community health workers in under-five children with uncomplicated malaria in rural Tanzania: an open label prospective study.
AB  - Provision of AL by CHWs for unsupervised malaria treatment at home was highly effective, which provides evidence base for scaling-up implementation of HMM with AL in Tanzania.

UI  - 21410944
TI  - A phase I trial to evaluate the safety and pharmacokinetics of low-dose methotrexate as an anti-malarial drug in Kenyan adult healthy volunteers.
AB  - Low-dose methotraxate had an acceptable safety profile. However, methotrexate blood levels did not reach the desirable C(eff) of 250-400-nM required to clear malaria infection in vivo. Further dose finding and safety studies are necessary to confirm suitability of this drug as an anti-malarial agent.

UI  - 21383095
TI  - Effect of nutritional status on response to treatment with artemisinin-based combination therapy in young Ugandan children with malaria.
AB  - The relationship between malnutrition and malaria in young children is under debate, and no studies evaluating the association between malnutrition and response to artemisinin-based combination therapies (ACTs) have been published. We evaluated the association between malnutrition and response to antimalarial therapy in Ugandan children treated with ACTs for repeated episodes of malaria. Children aged 4 to 12 months diagnosed with uncomplicated malaria were randomized to dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine (DP) or artemether-lumefantrine (AL) and followed for up to 2 years. All HIV-exposed and HIV-infected children received trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole prophylaxis (TS). The primary exposure variables included height-for-age and weight-for-age z scores. Outcomes included parasite clearance at days 2 and 3 and risk of recurrent parasitemia after 42 days of follow-up. Two hundred ninety-two children were randomized to DP or AL, resulting in 2,013 malaria treatments. Fewer than 1% of patients had a positive blood smear by day 3 (DP, 0.2%; AL, 0.6% [P = 0.18]). There was no significant association between height-for-age or weight-for-age z scores and a positive blood smear 2 days following treatment. For children treated with DP but not on TS, decreasing height-for-age z scores of <-1 were associated with a higher risk of recurrent parasitemia than a height-for-age z score of >0 (hazard ratio [HR] for height-for-age z score of <-1 and -2 = 2.89 [P = 0.039]; HR for height-for-age z score of <-2 = 3.18 [P = 0.022]). DP and AL are effective antimalarial therapies in chronically malnourished children in a high-transmission setting. However, children with mild to moderate chronic malnutrition not taking TS are at higher risk for recurrent parasitemia and may be considered a target for chemoprevention.

UI  - 21379417
TI  - Cost-effectiveness of artemisinin combination therapy for uncomplicated malaria in children: data from Papua New Guinea.
AB  - A+L and DHA+PQ are highly cost-effective regimens for the treatment of paediatric P. falciparum and P.vivax malaria, respectively, in parts of Papua New Guinea. Future research will be required to determine if these findings hold true for other territories in Asia and Oceania with similar malaria epidemiology.

UI  - 21363973
TI  - Associations between peripheral Plasmodium falciparum malaria parasitemia, human immunodeficiency virus, and concurrent helminthic infection among pregnant women in Malawi.
AB  - Approximately 2 billion persons worldwide are infected with schistosomiasis and soil-transmitted helminths (STH), many in areas where endemic malaria transmission coexists. Few data exist on associations between these infections. Nested within a larger clinical trial, primigravid and secundigravid women provided blood samples for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) testing and peripheral malaria films and stool and urine for evaluation of STH and Schistosoma spp. during their initial antenatal clinic visit. The most common parasitic infections were malaria (37.6%), S. haematobium (32.3%), and hookworm (14.4%); 14.2% of women were HIV-infected. S. haematobium infection was associated with lower malarial parasite densities (344 versus 557 parasites/L blood; P < 0.05). In multivariate analysis, HIV and hookworm infection were independently associated with malaria infection (adjusted odds ratio = 1.9 and 95% confidence interval = 1.2-3.0 for HIV; adjusted odds ratio = 1.9 and 95% confidence interval = 1.03-3.5 for hookworm). Concurrent helminthic infection had both positive and negative effects on malaria parasitemia among pregnant women in Malawi.

UI  - 21362162
TI  - Phase I randomized dose-ascending placebo-controlled trials of ferroquine--a candidate anti-malarial drug--in adults with asymptomatic Plasmodium falciparum infection.
AB  - These phase I trials showed that clinically, ferroquine was generally well-tolerated up to 1,600 mg as single dose and up to 800 mg as repeated dose in asymptomatic young male with P. falciparum infection. Further clinical development of ferroquine, either alone or in combination with another anti-malarial, is highly warranted and currently underway.

UI  - 21352609
TI  - Safety and efficacy of dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine versus artemether-lumefantrine in the treatment of uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in Zambian children.
AB  - ISRCTN16263443, at http://www.controlled-trials.com/isrctn.

UI  - 21320346
TI  - Evaluating the effectiveness of IPTi on malaria using routine health information from sentinel health centres in southern Tanzania.
AB  - The point estimate of the effect of IPTi on malaria is consistent with that from a large pooled analysis of randomized control trials. As such, it is plausible that the difference seen in health centre data is due to IPTi, even thought the effect did not reach statistical significance. Findings draw attention to the challenges of robust inference of effects of interventions based on routine health centre data. Analysis of routine health information can reassure that interventions are being made available and having desired effects, but unanticipated effects should trigger data collection from representative samples of the target population.

UI  - 21292898
TI  - Prevention of malaria during pregnancy: assessing the effect of the distribution of IPTp through the national policy in Benin.
AB  - The efficiency of malaria prevention during pregnancy was compared between three studies in Benin for malaria infection of the placenta (MIP) and low birth weight (LBW). The first was carried out when chloroquine prophylaxis was still recommended, the second was an intermittent preventive treatment in pregnancy (IPTp) clinical trial comparing sulfadoxine pyrimetamine (SP) versus mefloquine, and the third was an observational study after SP-IPTp national implementation. We showed an association between the use of IPTp and the reduction of LBW (10% with national IPTp and 8.7% in IPTp trial versus 15.7% in pre-trial study). The effect on MIP was better in the trial (2.9% versus 11.2% and 16.7% for national IPTp and pre-trial studies, respectively). In spite of a good overall compliance with the national IPTp (with 84% of women taking at least one dose of SP), there are still failures in adherence to the directly observed therapy (DOT) scheme and needs for better training of health staff.

UI  - 21282434
TI  - Pharmacokinetic properties of conventional and double-dose sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine given as intermittent preventive treatment in infancy.
AB  - Intermittent preventive treatment in infancy (IPTi) entails routine administration of antimalarial treatment doses at specified times in at-risk infants. Sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine (SDX/PYR) is a combination that has been used as first-line IPTi. Because of limited pharmacokinetic data and suggestions that higher milligram/kilogram pediatric doses than recommended should be considered, we assessed SDX/PYR disposition, randomized to conventional (25/1.25 mg/kg of body weight) or double (50/2.5 mg/kg) dose, in 70 Papua New Guinean children aged 2 to 13 months. Blood samples were drawn at baseline, 28 days, and three time points randomly selected for each infant at 4 to 8 h or 2, 5, 7, 14, or 21 days. Plasma SDX, PYR, and N(4)-acetylsulfadoxine (NSX, the principal metabolite of SDX) were assayed by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). Using population modeling incorporating hepatic maturation and cystatin C-based renal function, two-compartment models provided best fits for PYR and SDX/NSX plasma concentration profiles. The area under the plasma concentration-time curve from 0 h to infinity (AUC(0-)) was greater with the double dose versus the conventional dose of PYR (4,915 versus 2,844 g/day/liter) and SDX (2,434 versus 1,460 mg/day/liter). There was a 32% reduction in SDX relative bioavailability with the double dose but no evidence of dose-dependent metabolism. Terminal elimination half-lives (15.6 days for PYR, 9.1 days for SDX) were longer than previously reported. Both doses were well tolerated without changes in hemoglobin or hepatorenal function. Five children in the conventional and three in the double-dose group developed malaria during follow-up. These data support the potential use of double-dose SDX/PYR in infancy, but further studies should examine the influence of hepatorenal maturation in very young infants.

UI  - 21277721
TI  - [Evaluation of imported pediatric malaria management in northern France].
AB  - The French Infectious Disease Society (SPILF) recommendations were not well observed. This inappropriate management was responsible for treatment failures and increased costs.

UI  - 21267072
TI  - Pyronaridine-artesunate versus chloroquine in patients with acute Plasmodium vivax malaria: a randomized, double-blind, non-inferiority trial.
AB  - Clinicaltrials.gov NCT00440999.

UI  - 21219551
TI  - Effect of artesunate and mefloquine in combination on the Fridericia corrected QT intervals in Plasmodium falciparum infected adults from Thailand.
AB  - In this small group of patients, slowing heart rates due to malaria resolution best explained the observed increases in the QTcF intervals.

UI  - 21214940
TI  - A trial of intermittent preventive treatment and home-based management of malaria in a rural area of The Gambia.
AB  - Due to the very low incidence of malaria, no firm conclusion can be drawn on the added benefit of IPTc in preventing clinical episodes of malaria among children who had access to HMM in The Gambia. However, the study showed that VHWs can successfully combine provision of HMM with provision of IPTc.

UI  - 21214690
TI  - Artesunate/mefloquine paediatric formulation vs. artemether/lumefantrine for the treatment of uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum in Anonkoua kout, Cte d'Ivoire.
AB  - AS+MEF is as effective as AL, and both combinations were efficacious and safe.

UI  - 21212216
TI  - Confirmed vivax resistance to chloroquine and effectiveness of artemether-lumefantrine for the treatment of vivax malaria in Ethiopia.
AB  - Chloroquine (CQ) is still the drug of choice for the treatment of vivax malaria in Ethiopia, whereas artemether-lumefantrine (AL) is for falciparum malaria. In this setting, clinical malaria cases are treated with AL. This necessitated the need to assess the effectiveness of AL for the treatment of Plasmodium vivax with CQ as a comparator. A total of 57 (80.3%) and 75 (85.2%) cases treated with CQ or AL, respectively, completed the study in an outpatient setting. At the end of the follow-up period of 28 days, a cumulative incidence of treatment failure of 7.5% (95% confidence interval [CI] = 2.9-18.9%) for CQ and 19% (95% CI = 11-31.6%) for AL was detected. CQ resistance was confirmed in three of five CQ treatment failures cases. The effectiveness of AL seems lower than CQ; however, the findings were not conclusive, because the AL evening doses were not supervised.

UI  - 21194422
TI  - An open randomized clinical trial in comparing two artesunate-based combination treatments on Plasmodium falciparum malaria in Nigerian children: artesunate/sulphamethoxypyrazine/pyrimethamine (fixed dose over 24 hours) versus artesunate/amodiaquine (fixed dose over 48 hours).
AB  - This study demonstrates that AS + SMP FDC given as three doses over 24 hours (12-hour intervals) has similar efficacy as AS + AQ FDC given as three doses over 48 hours (24-hour interval) for the treatment of uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in children in Nigeria. Both drugs also proved to be safe. Therefore, AS + SMP could be an alternative to currently recommended first-line ACT with continuous resistance surveillance.

UI  - 21192244
TI  - Therapeutic efficacy of artesunate-amodiaquine combinations and the plasma and saliva concentrations of desethylamodiaquine in children with acute uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria.
AB  - The treatment efficacy of artesunate-amodiaquine (AQ) coformulated or copackaged, and the plasma and saliva concentrations of desethylamodiaquine (DEAQ), the active metabolite of AQ, were evaluated in 120 and 7 children, respectively, with uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria treated with oral daily doses of the 2 formulations for 3 days. All children recovered clinically. Fever clearance (1.1  0.2 vs 1.0  0 days) and parasite clearance times (21.1  10.2 vs 19.0  7.0 hours) in artesunate-AQ coformulated and artesunate-AQ copackaged treated children, respectively, were similar. All children remained aparasitemic for at least 28 days. Blood and saliva samples were collected over 35 days and DEAQ in plasma and saliva was determined by high-performance liquid chromatography. DEAQ was detectable in plasma and saliva within 40 minutes of oral administration of artesunate-AQ. DEAQ concentrations 7 days after the start of therapy were 247.8 and 125.1 ng/mL in plasma and saliva, respectively. The concentration-time curves of plasma and saliva in declining phases were approximately parallel giving a similar half-life of 169.1  16.4 and 142.8  6.5 hours in plasma and saliva, respectively. Clearance from plasma and saliva was also similar (335.6 and 443.4 mLhkg, respectively). Area under concentration-time curves (AUC0-35d) for plasma and saliva were 94,744.9 and 74,004.2 ngmLh, respectively. In general, Saliva-plasma concentration ratio was 0.25-0.4. DEAQ concentrations in saliva may be useful for monitoring therapy and for the evaluation of the disposition of AQ in children with falciparum malaria treated with AQ-based combination.

UI  - 21191379
TI  - Population pharmacokinetics of sulfadoxine and pyrimethamine in Malawian children with malaria.
AB  - In addition to parasite resistance, inadequate levels of exposure to antimalarial drugs may contribute to treatment failure. We developed population pharmacokinetic (PK) models to describe the distribution of sulfadoxine (SDX) and pyrimethamine (PYM) in children with uncomplicated malaria in Malawi. The concentration levels of antimalarial drugs in whole blood were determined using high-performance liquid chromatography. We found no evidence of underdosing in children as compared with adults; the children had drug exposure levels similar to those described in adults. Treatment failure was more likely in children with lower PYM concentrations on day 14 (P = 0.024), and there was a trend for lower SDX concentrations on day 14 (P = 0.061). SDX and PYM concentrations at levels predictive of treatment failure have been identified at day 14. Less than one-third of the children displayed drug concentration levels above these thresholds after receiving the recommended SDX-pyrimethamine (SP) dose. Our findings suggest that PK factors contributed to the observed high rate of treatment failure, and we therefore recommend a higher SP dose for children under the age of 5 years.

UI  - 21159081
TI  - The clinical impact of combining intermittent preventive treatment with home management of malaria in children aged below 5 years: cluster randomised trial.
AB  - In this study area, incidence of fevers was lower in communities given three courses of IPTc during the time of peak transmission than in communities that received only HMM. However, high levels of coverage for IPTc will be necessary for maximum impact.

UI  - 21148503
TI  - Similar efficacy and tolerability of double-dose chloroquine and artemether-lumefantrine for treatment of Plasmodium falciparum infection in Guinea-Bissau: a randomized trial.
AB  - Both treatments achieved the World Health Organization-recommended efficacy for antimalarials that will be adopted as policy. High-dose chloroquine treatment regimes should be further evaluated with the aim of assessing chloroquine as a potential partner drug to artemisinin derivatives. Clinical trials registration. NCT00426439.

UI  - 21148048
TI  - Pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of arterolane maleate following multiple oral doses in adult patients with P. falciparum malaria.
AB  - Arterolane (RBx 11160) maleate is a novel, rapidly acting synthetic trioxolane antimalarial compound being developed by Ranbaxy Research Laboratories (Haryana, India). It is presently under phase III in combination with piperaquine phosphate. The present work reports the relationship between pharmacokinetic (PK) parameter (AUC(0-8h) on day 0/day 6) and indices of pharmacodynamic (PD) response (50% parasite clearance [PC(50)], 90% parasite clearance [PC(90)], parasite clearance time [PCT], recrudescence) from a phase II, double-blind, multicenter, randomized, parallel-group, dose-ranging trial. Patients with acute uncomplicated P. falciparum malaria were randomized to 1 of 3 arterolane maleate (50, 100, and 200 mg) doses for 7 consecutive days. Plasma concentration data were available from 78, 76, and 75 patients receiving a 50-, 100-, and 200-mg dose, respectively. Based on PD modeling, its limitations and assumptions, minimum 150-mg dose arterolane maleate was recommended to optimize the probability of maximum therapeutic benefits for an adult. Doses higher than 100 mg are unlikely to reduce the probability of recrudescence. This study re-stresses the need of combining short and long-acting drugs to prevent resistance development and minimize recrudescence.

UI  - 21118927
TI  - Health workers' use of malaria rapid diagnostic tests (RDTs) to guide clinical decision making in rural dispensaries, Tanzania.
AB  - Rapid diagnostic tests (RDTs) were developed as an alternative to microscopy for malaria diagnosis. The RDTs detect malaria parasite antigen(s) in whole blood with high sensitivity and specificity. We assessed health worker malaria treatment practices after the introduction of RDTs in peripheral health facilities without microscopy. From December 2007 to October 2008, we introduced histidine-rich protein II (HRP-2)-based ParaHIT RDTs for routine use in 12 health facilities in Rufiji District, Tanzania. Health workers received training on how to perform RDTs for patients 5 years of age or older with fever or suspected malaria. Children < 5 years of age were to be treated empirically per national guidelines. Among the 30,195 patients seen at these 12 health facilities, 10,737 (35.6%) were tested with an RDT for malaria. 88.3% (9,405/10,648) of tested patients reported fever or history of fever and 2.7% (289/10,677) of all tested individuals were children < 5 years of age. The RDT results were recorded for 10,650 patients (99.2%). Among the 5,488 (51.5%) RDT-positive patients, 5,256 (98.6%) were treated with an appropriate first-line antimalarial per national guidelines (artemether-lumefantrine or quinine). Among the 5,162 RDT-negative patients, only 205 (4.0%) were treated with an antimalarial. Other reported treatments included antibiotics and antipyretics. Implementation of RDTs in rural health facilities resulted in high adherence to national treatment guidelines. Patients testing negative by RDT were rarely treated with antimalarials. Unapproved antimalarials were seldom used. Health workers continued to follow guidelines for the empiric treatment of febrile children.

UI  - 21118925
TI  - A phase III, randomized, non-inferiority trial to assess the efficacy and safety of dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine in comparison with artesunate-mefloquine in patients with uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in southern Laos.
AB  - We conducted an open, randomized clinical trial of oral dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine (DP) versus artesunate-mefloquine (AM) in 300 patients in Laos with uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria as part of a multicentre study in Asia. Survival analysis and adjustment for re-infection showed that the 63-day cure rates (95% confidence interval [CI]) were 100% for AM and 99.5% (96.4-99.8%) for DP. The 63-day cure rates per protocol were 99% (97 of 98) for AM and 99.5% (196 of 197) for DP (P = 0.55). The difference (AM minus DP) in cure rates (95% CI) was -0.5% (-5.1 to 2.0%), which is within the 5% non-inferiority margin. The median fever and parasite clearance times were also similar for AM and DP. The proportion of patients with at least one recorded potential adverse event was significantly higher in the AM group (38 of 87, 44%) than in the DP group (57 of 182, 31%) (relative risk = 0.6, 95% CI = 0.4-0.9; P = 0.04). Dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine is not inferior to AM in the treatment of uncomplicated P. falciparum malaria in Laos and is associated with fewer adverse effects. The results of this study were similar to those of the larger multicentre study.

UI  - 21092220
TI  - Early variations in plasmodium falciparum dynamics in Nigerian children after treatment with two artemisinin-based combinations: implications on delayed parasite clearance.
AB  - The study showed the high efficacy of AL and AA in Nigerian children. In addition the study demonstrated the mobilisation of asexual parasites from the deep to the periphery in the early hours of commencing ACT treatment in a subset of patients in both study groups. It is unclear whether the early parasite dynamics discovered in this study play any role in the development of drug resistance and thus it is important to further evaluate this discovery. It may be useful for studies investigating delay in parasite clearance of artemisinin derivatives as a way of monitoring the development of resistance to artemisinin to assess the early effects of the drugs on the parasites.

UI  - 21092137
TI  - Plasmodium falciparum clearance with artemisinin-based combination therapy (ACT) in patients with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency in Mali.
AB  - The presence of G6PD deficiency does not appear to significantly influence the clearance of P. falciparum in the treatment of uncomplicated malaria using ACT.

UI  - 21078941
TI  - Limited ability of Plasmodium falciparum pfcrt, pfmdr1, and pfnhe1 polymorphisms to predict quinine in vitro sensitivity or clinical effectiveness in Uganda.
AB  - Quinine is a standard drug for treating severe malaria in Africa, and it is also increasingly used to treat uncomplicated disease. However, failures of quinine therapy are common, and it is unknown if failures in Africa are due to drug resistance. Recent studies have identified associations between in vitro quinine sensitivity and polymorphisms in genes encoding putative transporters, including well-described polymorphisms in pfcrt and pfmdr1 and varied numbers of DNNND or DDNHNDNHNND repeats in microsatellite 4760 (ms4760) of the predicted sodium-hydrogen exchanger, pfnhe1. To better characterize mediators of quinine response, we assessed associations between genetic polymorphisms, in vitro quinine sensitivity, and quinine treatment responses in Kampala, Uganda. Among 172 fresh clinical isolates tested in vitro, decreasing sensitivity to quinine was associated with accumulation of pfmdr1 mutations at codons 86, 184, and 1246. Nearly all parasites had pfcrt 76T, preventing analysis of associations with this mutation. pfnhe1 ms4760 was highly polymorphic. Parasites with 2 copies of either ms4760 repeat showed modest decreases in quinine sensitivity compared to those with 1 or 3 repeats, but the differences were not statistically significant. None of the above polymorphisms predicted treatment failure among 66 subjects treated with quinine for uncomplicated malaria. Our data suggest that quinine sensitivity is a complex trait and that known polymorphisms in pfcrt, pfmdr1, and pfnhe1, while associated with quinine sensitivity, are not robust markers for quinine resistance.

UI  - 21062666
TI  - Artesunate versus quinine in the treatment of severe falciparum malaria in African children (AQUAMAT): an open-label, randomised trial.
AB  - The Wellcome Trust.

UI  - 21061926
TI  - Symptom-based diagnosis of malaria and its implication on antimalarial drug use in pregnancy in Central Uganda: results from a community trial.
AB  - The results call for urgent strategies to identify effective diagnostic tools for malaria in pregnancy and to assess the negative effects of the over-use of antimalarial drugs in pregnancy.

UI  - 21056445
TI  - Is parasite clearance clinically important after malaria treatment in a high transmission area? A 3-month follow-up of home-based management with herbal medicine or ACT.
AB  - Argemone mexicana (AM), a validated herbal medicine for uncomplicated malaria, seems to prevent severe malaria without completely clearing parasites in most patients. This study, in a high transmission area of South Mali, explores whether residual parasitaemia at day 28 was associated with subsequent malaria episodes and/or anaemia. Three hundred and one patients were randomly assigned to AM or artesunate/amodiaquine as first line treatment, of whom 294 were followed up beyond the standard 28 days, to 84 days. From day 29 to day 84, there were no significant differences between treatment groups in new clinical episodes of uncomplicated malaria (0.33 vs 0.31 episodes/patient), severe malaria (< 6% per month of patients aged  5 years) or moderate anaemia (hematocrit < 24%: 1.1% in both groups at day 84). Total parasite clearance at day 28 was not correlated with incidence of uncomplicated or severe malaria or of moderate anaemia over the subsequent two months. Total parasite clearance at day 28 was not clinically important in the context of high transmission. If this finding can be confirmed, some antimalarials which are clinically effective but do not completely clear parasites could nevertheless be appropriate in high transmission areas. Such a policy could be tested as a way to delay resistance to artemisinin combination therapies.

UI  - 21040545
TI  - Directly-observed therapy (DOT) for the radical 14-day primaquine treatment of Plasmodium vivax malaria on the Thai-Myanmar border.
AB  - Adherence to the 14-day primaquine regimen is important for the radical cure of P. vivax malaria infection. Implementation of DOT reduces the reappearance rate of the parasite, and may subsequently decrease P. vivax transmission in the area.

UI  - 21028985
TI  - Artemisinin resistance in Cambodia: a clinical trial designed to address an emerging problem in Southeast Asia.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov identifier NCT00479206.

UI  - 20964849
TI  - Artesunate-mefloquine combination therapy in acute Plasmodium falciparum malaria in young children: a field study regarding neurological and neuropsychiatric safety.
AB  - African children showed a low percentage of self-limited neurological and neuropsychiatric adverse events, confirming studies on neurological safety in Asian children treated with artesunate and mefloquine. Sleeping disorders were most frequently observed.

UI  - 20932805
TI  - Efficacy and safety of artemether-lumefantrine compared with quinine in pregnant women with uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria: an open-label, randomised, non-inferiority trial.
AB  - Mdecins Sans Frontires and the European Commission.

UI  - 20889882
TI  - Increased risk of early vomiting among infants and young children treated with dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine compared with artemether-lumefantrine for uncomplicated malaria.
AB  - Artemether-lumefantrine (AL) and dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine (DP) are highly efficacious antimalarial therapies in Africa. However, there are limited data regarding the tolerability of these drugs in young children. We used data from a randomized control trial in rural Uganda to compare the risk of early vomiting (within one hour of dosing) for children 6-24 months of age randomized to receive DP (n = 240) or AL (n = 228) for treatment of uncomplicated malaria. Overall, DP was associated with a higher risk of early vomiting than AL (15.1% versus 7.1%; P = 0.007). The increased risk of early vomiting with DP was only present among breastfeeding children (relative risk [RR] = 3.35, P = 0.001) compared with children who were not breastfeeding (RR = 1.03, P = 0.94). Age less than 18 months was a risk factor for early vomiting independent of treatment (RR = 3.27, P = 0.02). Our findings indicate that AL may be better tolerated than DP among young breastfeeding children treated for uncomplicated malaria.

UI  - 20889877
TI  - A comparison of iron and folate with folate alone in hematologic recovery of children treated for acute malaria.
AB  - Concern has been raised that iron supplementation for treatment of acute malaria may worsen the severity of malaria. We compared the effect of iron and folate with folate alone on hematologic recovery in children treated for acute malaria. We randomized 82 children 6-60 months of age from Nigeria with smear-positive malaria and anemia (hematocrit < 33%) to receive iron (2 mg/kg/day) plus folate (5 mg/day) or folate alone in addition to antimalarial drugs. The mean  SD hematocrit at baseline was 28.5%  2.9%. At four weeks, the mean hematocrit increased by 2.5%  1.6% in the iron plus folate group and by 1.4%  1.0% in the folate alone group (P = 0.001). Baseline hematocrit, iron supplementation, weight for height, and weekly meat intake were significant predictors of final hematocrit. The effect of iron was not significantly modified by baseline hematocrit, weekly meat intake, nutritional status, mother's education, sex, or age of the child. Iron supplementation improved hematologic recovery in children with malarial anemia.

UI  - 20877714
TI  - Community case management of fever due to malaria and pneumonia in children under five in Zambia: a cluster randomized controlled trial.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.govNCT00513500

UI  - 20858280
TI  - Impact of repeated four-monthly anthelmintic treatment on Plasmodium infection in preschool children: a double-blind placebo-controlled randomized trial.
AB  - Current controlled trials ISRCTN44215995.

UI  - 20850004
TI  - Comparison of artesunate and quinine in the treatment of Sudanese children with severe Plasmodium falciparum malaria.
AB  - Sixty-six children presenting to Singa hospital, Sudan with different manifestations of severe Plasmodium falciparum malaria were randomly divided into two well-matched groups (33 in each arm) to receive either intravenous artesunate 24 mg/kg at 0, 12, and 24 hours, then daily, or intravenous quinine 20mg/kg initially then 10mg/kg three times a day. There was no significant difference in the fever, parasite clearance, and coma resolution times. Three patients died, one in the artesunate and two in the quinine groups. One patient developed hypoglycaemia following quinine infusion. Thus, artesunate can be used for the treatment of severe falciparum malaria.

UI  - 20838642
TI  - Protective efficacy of intermittent preventive treatment of malaria in infants (IPTi) using sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine and parasite resistance.
AB  - A significant relationship was found between the frequency of the dhfr triple mutation and SP-IPTi protective efficacy at 35 days post the 9 month dose. An association between the protective efficacy to 12 months of age and dhfr triple and dhfr/dhps quintuple mutations was found but should be viewed with caution due to bias. It was not possible to define a more definite relationship based on the data available from these trials.

UI  - 20834083
TI  - Comparative study of efficacy of artesunate plus cotrimoxazole and artesunate plus chloroquine in the treatment of malaria in Nigerian children: a preliminary report.
AB  - These results indicate that artesunate plus cotrimoxazole has similar efficacy to artesunate plus chloroquine in the treatment of acute uncomplicated P. falciparum malaria in children resident in an endemic area of south-west Nigeria.

UI  - 20834082
TI  - Comparison of quinine and rabeprazole with quinine monotherapy in the treatment of uncomplicated falciparum malaria.
AB  - The study results suggest that addition of rabeprazole to quinine regimen resulted in an increase in the parasite elimination rate, which may be helpful in reducing the duration of treatment and increasing patient compliance.

UI  - 20832366
TI  - Effectiveness of five artemisinin combination regimens with or without primaquine in uncomplicated falciparum malaria: an open-label randomised trial.
AB  - Mdecins sans Frontires (Holland) and the Wellcome Trust Mahidol University Oxford Tropical Medicine Research Programme.

UI  - 20810804
TI  - Evaluation of recurrent parasitemia after artemether-lumefantrine treatment for uncomplicated malaria in children in western Kenya.
AB  - From April 2005 to April 2006, a phase 2 malaria vaccine trial in Kenya enrolled 400 children aged 12-47 months. Each received mixed supervised and unsupervised artemether-lumefantrine for uncomplicated malaria, using a standard six-dose regimen, by weight. Children were followed for detection of parasitemia and clinical malaria. A median of two negative malaria blood films occurred during every recurrent parasitemia (RP) episode, suggesting reinfection over late recrudescence. Median time to RP after starting artemether-lumefantrine was 37 days (36-38). Of 2,020 evaluable artemether-lumefantrine treatments, there were no RPs in 99% by day 14, 71% by day 28, and 41% by day 42. By World Health Organization standards, 71% of treatment courses had adequate responses. Although recrudescence in some cannot be ruled out, our cohort had a shorter median time to RP compared with other artemether-lumefantrine treatment studies. This underscores patient counseling on completing all treatment doses for optimal protection from RP.

UI  - 20809964
TI  - Safety of artemether-lumefantrine in pregnant women with malaria: results of a prospective cohort study in Zambia.
AB  - These data suggest that exposure to AL in pregnancy, including first trimester, is not associated with particular safety risks in terms of perinatal mortality, malformations, or developmental impairment. However, more data are required on AL use during the first trimester.

UI  - 20808923
TI  - Cost effectiveness of seasonal intermittent preventive treatment using amodiaquine & artesunate or sulphadoxine-pyrimethamine in Ghanaian children.
AB  - We demonstrate how cost-effective IPTc is using three different drug regimens and the possibilities for reducing costs further if the intervention was to be scaled up to the district level. The need for effective training, drug delivery channels and supervision to support a strong network of community based volunteers is emphasised.

UI  - 20738048
TI  - Artesunate suppositories: an option for severe malaria.
AB  - 

UI  - 20723228
TI  - Clinical and parasitological response to oral chloroquine and primaquine in uncomplicated human Plasmodium knowlesi infections.
AB  - Chloroquine plus primaqine is an inexpensive and highly effective treatment for uncomplicated knowlesi malaria infections in humans and there is no evidence of drug resistance. Further studies using alternative anti-malarial drugs, including artemisinin derivatives, would be desirable to define optimal management strategies for P. knowlesi.

UI  - 20713675
TI  - Population pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of artemether and lumefantrine during combination treatment in children with uncomplicated falciparum malaria in Tanzania.
AB  - The combination of artemether (ARM) and lumefantrine is currently the first-line treatment of uncomplicated falciparum malaria in mainland Tanzania. While the exposure to lumefantrine has been associated with the probability of adequate clinical and parasitological cure, increasing exposure to artemether and the active metabolite dihydroartemisinin (DHA) has been shown to decrease the parasite clearance time. The aim of this analysis was to describe the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of artemether, dihydroartemisinin, and lumefantrine in African children with uncomplicated malaria. In addition to drug concentrations and parasitemias from 50 Tanzanian children with falciparum malaria, peripheral parasite densities from 11 asymptomatic children were included in the model of the parasite dynamics. The population pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of artemether, dihydroartemisinin, and lumefantrine were modeled in NONMEM. The distribution of artemether was described by a two-compartment model with a rapid absorption and elimination through metabolism to dihydroartemisinin. Dihydroartemisinin concentrations were adequately illustrated by a one-compartment model. The pharmacokinetics of artemether was time dependent, with typical oral clearance increasing from 2.6 liters/h/kg on day 1 to 10 liters/h/kg on day 3. The pharmacokinetics of lumefantrine was sufficiently described by a one-compartment model with an absorption lag time. The typical value of oral clearance was estimated to 77 ml/h/kg. The proposed semimechanistic model of parasite dynamics, while a rough approximation of the complex interplay between malaria parasite and the human host, adequately described the early effect of ARM and DHA concentrations on the parasite density in malaria patients. However, the poor precision in some parameters illustrates the need for further data to support and refine this model.

UI  - 20689585
TI  - Incidence of malaria and efficacy of combination antimalarial therapies over 4 years in an urban cohort of Ugandan children.
AB  - isrctn.org ISRCTN37517549.

UI  - 20689583
TI  - An open-label, randomised study of dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine versus artesunate-mefloquine for falciparum malaria in Asia.
AB  - Controlled-Trials.com ISRCTN81306618.

UI  - 20687837
TI  - Arterolane, a new synthetic trioxolane for treatment of uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria: a phase II, multicenter, randomized, dose-finding clinical trial.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov identifier NCT00362050.

UI  - 20683244
TI  - Use of area under the curve to evaluate the effects of antimalarial drugs on malaria-associated anemia after treatment.
AB  - To evaluate the effects of antimalarial drugs on Plasmodium falciparum malaria-associated anemia, we use the area under the curve (AUC) of anemia levels after treatment as an approach to combine their duration and magnitude. The method involves numeric estimation, by trapezoidal rule, of AUC from a plot of deficit in hematocrit levels from 30% (the lower threshold of normal) versus time in anemic children. Using the method, we evaluated, in randomized trials, the effects of artesunate-mefloquine versus mefloquine alone and artemether-lumefantrine versus amodiaquine-artesunate on the time course of recovery from malaria-associated anemia in 109 children. Anemia resolution times were similar (10.9  6.2 [standard deviation] versus 13.3  8.9 days, P = 0.2), but mean AUC was significantly lower in artesunate-mefloquine- compared with mefloquine-treated children (35.5  7.1 [standard error of mean] versus 49.8  11.3 %h, P = 0.02) indicating larger exposure to anemia in mefloquine-treated children. In artemether-lumefantrine- and amodiaquine-artesunate-treated children, both anemia resolution times (8.6  5.3 [standard deviation] versus 8.6  4.8 days, P = 0.98) and mean AUC (57.1  12.9 [standard error of mean] versus 46.3  8.7 %h, P = 0.74) were similar. Estimation of AUC appears more robust than estimation of anemia resolution time in evaluating antimalarial drug effects and can be used in both observational studies and clinical trials assessing the effects of therapies on malaria-associated anemia.

UI  - 20665369
TI  - Assessment of the short-term safety and tolerability of a quantified 80 % ethanol extract from the stem bark of Nauclea pobeguinii (PR 259 CT1) in healthy volunteers: a clinical phase I study.
AB  - The aim of this study was to evaluate the short-term safety and tolerability of an antimalarial herbal medicinal product (PR 259 CT1) consisting of a quantified 80 % ethanol extract from the stem bark of Nauclea pobeguinii when given orally to healthy adult male volunteers. The amount of the major alkaloid strictosamide in the extract was determined by a validated HPLC method and was shown to be 5.6 %. The herbal preparation was formulated in a gelatine capsule form containing 500 mg of PCR 259 CT1. A sample of 15 healthy male volunteers, selected using the Lot Quality Assurance of Sampling (LQAS) method, was eligible for inclusion after fulfillment of the inclusion criteria and clinical examination by a physician. The volunteers were treated in an outpatient clinic with a drug regimen of two 500 mg capsules three times daily (each eight hours) for seven days, during meals. Safety and tolerability were monitored clinically, haematologically, biochemically and by electrocardiographic (ECG) examination at days 0, 1, 3, 7 and 14. Adverse effects were recorded by self-reporting of the participants or by detection of abnormalities in clinical examinations by a physician. The oral administration of PR 259 CT1 at high doses of 2  500 mg/capsule/day for 7 days was found to induce no significant changes in the concentration levels of all investigated haematological, biochemical, electrocardiogram and vital sign parameters and physical characteristics after 14 days of treatment compared to those seen in the baseline data. The concentration levels of all evaluated parameters were within the normal limits as reported in the literature. All adverse events noted were mild and self-resolving including increase of appetite (33 %), headache (20 %) and nausea (20 %). Other minor side effects were insomnia, somnolence and asthenia (7 %). Thus, PR 259 CT1 presented a significant safety and tolerability in healthy volunteers to allow its further development by starting a phase II clinical trial.

UI  - 20659392
TI  - Dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine versus artemether-lumefantrine, in the treatment of uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in central Sudan.
AB  - Artemisinin-based combination therapies (ACT) are now being adopted as first-line treatments against uncomplicated malaria in sub-Saharan Africa. Between December 2009 and February 2010, the efficacies of two ACT - dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine (DHA-P) and artemether-lumefantrine (AL) - in the treatment of uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria were compared in Sinnar, central Sudan. Overall, 149 patients (75 given DHA-P and 74 given AL) completed the 28 days of follow-up. All the patients were found to be afebrile and aparasitaemic on day 3. By day 28, only one patient, who had been given AL, showed late treatment and parasitological failures, while each of the other 148 patients showed an adequate treatment response. After the results of a PCR-based assay confirmed that the recrudescent parasitaemia was probably the result of treatment failure, the frequencies of cure by day 28 were calculated as 100% for DHA-P and 98.7% for AL (P>0.05). None of the patients was found gametocytaemic during the follow-up, and the adverse effects observed were mild (nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, dizziness and/or rash), resolved spontaneously and occurred in only five patients in each treatment arm. Thus, both treatments appeared effective and safe for the treatment of uncomplicated P. falciparum malaria in central Sudan, although treatment with DHA-P (which requires a simpler dosing regimen) might be preferred to treatment with AL.

UI  - 20616970
TI  - Community-directed interventions for priority health problems in Africa: results of a multicountry study.
AB  - The CDI strategy, which builds upon the core principles of primary health care, is an effective and efficient model for integrated delivery of appropriate health interventions at the community level in Africa.

UI  - 20595477
TI  - Intravenous ibuprofen (IV-ibuprofen) controls fever effectively in adults with acute uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria but prolongs parasitemia.
AB  - Because some febrile patients are unable to swallow or retain oral antipyretic drugs, we carried out a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial in which intravenous ibuprofen (IV-ibuprofen) was given to adults hospitalized with fever associated with acute uncomplicated falciparum malaria treated with oral artesunate plus mefloquine. Thirty patients received IV-ibuprofen 400 mg and 30 received placebo every 6 hours for 72 hours. Reduction in the area above 37.0 degrees C versus time curve was significantly greater for IV-ibuprofen than for placebo during the first 72 hours after first administration. No patients developed severe malaria; parasite clearance was delayed in the patients whose fevers were controlled by IV-ibuprofen (median 37.3 hours versus 23.7 hours in the placebo group [P = 0.0024]). This difference did not appear to be clinically important Adverse events, none considered severe, occurred equally in both groups. IV-ibuprofen was effective and well tolerated in reducing fever in febrile inpatients with malaria.

UI  - 20578447
TI  - Early diagnosis and treatment of falciparum malaria in Cambodian trauma patients.
AB  - Asymptomatically infected patients with falciparum malaria may develop symptomatic malaria infection secondary to injury or surgery. This complication increases the risk for postoperative wound infection and adds to the burden of trauma. The aims of the present study were to investigate the preventive effect of early antimalaria treatment of Plasmodium falciparum infected trauma patients, and to study the validity and accuracy of a rapid test to identify those infected. An open, non-randomized, interventional multi-center, cohort study was carried out at six district hospitals in northwestern Cambodia. Two hundred twenty-two trauma patients was examined for P. falciparum by dipstick test soon after injury. The patients testing positive were immediately treated with artesunate-mefloquine. A subset of 108 patients from Pailin, an area considered highly endemic for falciparum malaria, was used for the main analysis. Of 28 P. falciparum rapid test-positives, 21 developed symptomatic postinjury malaria despite early antimalarial treatment. The agreement between the dipstick test and blood smear examination was good (kappa 92.5; 95% CI 84.5-100). Early pre-operative treatment of parasite carriers does not seem to prevent symptomatic malaria after injury and surgery. The rapid test for falciparum malaria was reliable in early identification of asymptomatic P. falciparum infected patients.

UI  - 20557237
TI  - Azithromycin combination therapy for the treatment of uncomplicated falciparum malaria in Bangladesh: an open-label randomized, controlled clinical trial.
AB  - Our data suggest that azithromycin-artesunate is an efficacious and well-tolerated treatment for patients with uncomplicated falciparum malaria in Bangladesh.

UI  - 20547795
TI  - New fixed-dose artesunate-mefloquine formulation against multidrug-resistant Plasmodium falciparum in adults: a comparative phase IIb safety and pharmacokinetic study with standard-dose nonfixed artesunate plus mefloquine.
AB  - A new fixed-dose artesunate (AS)-mefloquine (MQ) was assessed in adults hospitalized for 28 days with uncomplicated drug-resistant falciparum malaria. The patients (n = 25/arm) were treated with (i) two fixed-dose tablets (AS-MQ arm; 100 mg AS-200 mg MQ/tablet) daily for 3 days (days 0, 1, and 2) or (ii) nonfixed AS (AS-plus-MQ arm; 4 mg/kg of body weight/day for 3 days) plus MQ (15 mg/kg on day 1 and 10 mg/kg on day 2), dosed by weight. Clinical laboratory electrocardiogram (ECG), adverse events (AEs), efficacy, and pharmacokinetic parameters were assessed over 28 days. Both regimens were well tolerated. No AEs were drug related. Two serious AEs of malaria-induced hypotension occurring in the AS-MQ arm necessitated rescue treatment. There were no significant changes in hematology, biochemistry, or PR and QRS intervals. For all patients, mean Fridericia-corrected QT intervals were significantly (P < or = 0.0027) prolonged on day 3 (407 ms) and day 7 (399 ms) versus day 0 (389 ms), in parallel with significant (P < or = 0.0003) falls in heart rates (67 [day 3], 73 [day 7], and 83 [day 0] beats/minute). Fixed-nonfixed formulations were bioequivalent for MQ, but not for AS and dihydroartemisinin (DHA). One AS-MQ patient developed a new infection on day 28; his day 28 plasma MQ concentration was 503.8 ng/ml. Fixed-dose AS-MQ was well tolerated, had pharmacokinetic (PK) profiles broadly similar to those of nonfixed AS plus MQ, and is a suitable replacement.

UI  - 20519597
TI  - Tolerability and efficacy of a pediatric granule formulation of artesunate-mefloquine in young children from Cameroon with uncomplicated falciparum malaria.
AB  - A fixed-dose pediatric formulation of artesunate and mefloquine (Artequin Pediatric) has been developed. In this open, non-comparative study in Cameroonian children with uncomplicated falciparum malaria, the safety and efficacy of this formulation was tested, with a particular emphasis on the risk of neuropsychiatric adverse events (AEs). In total, 220 subjects, weighing between 10 and 20 kg, were enrolled; 213 qualified for analysis. Artesunate-mefloquine was given once daily for 3 days. Overall, 13.1% of patients reported mild to moderate neuropsychiatric AEs (elicited through a structured questionnaire or reported spontaneously) out of which 3.8% (mainly insomnia) were considered drug-related. Other drug-related AEs were infrequent (< 3%). Polymerase chain reaction-corrected cure rate (adequate clinical and parasitological response) determined by survival analysis at 28 and 63 days was 96.6%. New infections were observed in 11.2% of evaluable patients at 63 days. The new formulation was well tolerated and efficacious in the population investigated.

UI  - 20419161
TI  - Oral activated charcoal prevents experimental cerebral malaria in mice and in a randomized controlled clinical trial in man did not interfere with the pharmacokinetics of parenteral artesunate.
AB  - Controlled-Trials.com ISRCTN64793756.

UI  - 20417857
TI  - Efficacy and safety of a fixed-dose oral combination of pyronaridine-artesunate compared with artemether-lumefantrine in children and adults with uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria: a randomised non-inferiority trial.
AB  - Shin Poong Pharmaceutical and the Medicines for Malaria Venture.

UI  - 20409302
TI  - Dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine versus chloroquine to treat vivax malaria in Afghanistan: an open randomized, non-inferiority, trial.
AB  - Chloroquine remains an efficacious treatment for the treatment of vivax malaria in Afghanistan. In a setting where radical therapy cannot be administered, dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine provides additional benefit in terms of post-treatment prophylaxis, reducing the incidence of recurrence from 4-8 weeks after treatment.

UI  - 20398339
TI  - Randomized controlled trial of artesunate or artemether in Vietnamese adults with severe falciparum malaria.
AB  - Intramuscular artesunate may be superior to intramuscular artemether for the treatment of severe malaria in adults.

UI  - 20374561
TI  - Efficacy of methylene blue monotherapy in semi-immune adults with uncomplicated falciparum malaria: a controlled trial in Burkina Faso.
AB  - MB acts slowly against the blood stages of P. falciparum. MB alone needs to be given for at least 7 days to be efficacious in the treatment of falciparum malaria but should be used in combination with a fast acting antimalarial.

UI  - 20368815
TI  - Intermittent preventive treatment in infants for the prevention of malaria in rural Western kenya: a randomized, double-blind placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - These results support the view that IPTi with long-acting regimens provide protection against clinical malaria for up to 8 weeks even in the presence of high ITN coverage, and that the prophylactic rather than the treatment effect of IPTi appears central to its protective efficacy.

UI  - 20368402
TI  - Population pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamic considerations of amodiaquine and desethylamodiaquine in Kenyan adults with uncomplicated malaria receiving artesunate-amodiaquine combination therapy.
AB  - Amodiaquine (AQ) is an antimalarial drug that was frequently combined with artesunate (AS) for the treatment of uncomplicated malaria due to Plasmodium falciparum and is now available as a fixed-dose combination. Despite its widespread use, the simultaneous pharmacokinetics in patients of AQ and its active metabolite, desethylamodiaquine (DAQ), were not characterized to date. The pharmacokinetics of AQ and DAQ in 54 adult patients receiving the AS/AQ combination were therefore investigated by the use of a population approach. AQ followed a 1-compartment model with first-order absorption and elimination, as well as a first-order and irreversible transformation into DAQ, which in turn followed a 2-compartment model with first-order elimination from its central compartment. The mean AQ apparent clearance and distribution volume were 3,410 liters/h and 39,200 liters, respectively. The mean terminal elimination half-life of DAQ was 211 h. Body weight was found to explain the interindividual variability of the apparent volume of distribution of AQ and the elimination rate constant of DAQ. A new dosage form consisting of a fixed-dose combination of AS and AQ was found to have no effect on the pharmacokinetic parameters of AQ and DAQ. All patients achieved parasite clearance within 4 days following the initiation of the treatment, which prevented investigation of the possible relationship between DAQ exposure and treatment outcome. This study provided the first simultaneous pharmacokinetic model for AQ and DAQ.

UI  - 20361381
TI  - Efficacy and safety of a new pediatric artesunate-mefloquine drug formulation for the treatment of uncomplicated falciparum malaria in Gabon.
AB  - Pediatric drug formulations of artemisinin combination therapies are urgently needed for improving the treatment of children suffering from uncomplicated malaria. The aim of this clinical trial was to evaluate the efficacy, safety and tolerability of a novel pediatric fixed-dose granule formulation of artesunate-mefloquine and a new co-blister tablet formulation. A total of 71 children aged 1-13 years suffering from uncomplicated falciparum malaria were stratified into two groups according to weight: 10-20 kg, pediatric group (n = 41); 20-40 kg, tablet group (n = 30). All the children were treated once daily for three days: the pediatric group received the novel granule formulation, the tablet group received the co-blister tablets. The PCR-corrected cure rate on day 28 was evaluated. There was no reappearance of parasitemia during the follow-up period and the day-28 cure rate was therefore 100% in per-protocol analysis. In intention-to-treat analysis the cure rates were 95% in the pediatric group and 97% in the tablet group. The most frequent adverse events were vomiting (17%), abdominal pain (11%) and headache (17%). This study confirms the excellent efficacy and favorable safety and tolerability profile of a novel pediatric artesunate-mefloquine formulation for treatment in African children.

UI  - 20348496
TI  - A comparison of two short-course primaquine regimens for the treatment and radical cure of Plasmodium vivax malaria in Thailand.
AB  - Thai adult males (N = 85) with acute Plasmodium vivax malaria and normal glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase screening were randomized to receive 30 mg or 60 mg primaquine daily for 7 days (N = 43 and 42, respectively). The regimens were well tolerated and all patients recovered fully. Median fever clearance (47 hours; range 4 to 130 hours), mean + or - SD parasite clearance times (87.7 + or - 25.3 hours), gametocyte clearance, and adverse effects were similar in the 2 groups. Two patients, 1 from each group, had a 30% reduction in hematocrit. The cumulative 28 day relapse rate (95% confidence interval) by Kaplan Meier survival analysis was 29% (16-49%) in the 30 mg group compared with 7% (2-24%) in the 60 mg group; P = 0.027. Comparison with previous data obtained at this same site suggests that the recurrences comprised approximately 17% recrudescences and 12% relapses in the 30 mg/day group compared with 3% recrudescences and 4% relapses in the 60 mg/day group. These data suggest that the dose-response relationships for primaquine's asexual stage and hypnozoitocidal activities in-vivo are different. A 1 week course of primaquine 60 mg daily is an effective treatment of vivax malaria in this region.

UI  - 20348494
TI  - Treatment with coartem (artemether-lumefantrine) in Papua New Guinea.
AB  - A recent drug efficacy trial reported Coartem (artemether-lumefantrine) to be highly effective against Plasmodium falciparum in children less than 5 years of age in Papua New Guinea (PNG). In contrast, we have observed high levels of treatment failures in non-trial conditions in a longitudinal cohort study in the same age group in PNG. Recrudescences were confirmed by genotyping of three different marker genes to provide optimal discrimination power between parasite clones. After excluding genetic host factors by genotyping potentially relevant cytochrome P450 loci, the high number of treatment failures in our study is best explained by poor adherence to complex dosing regimens in combination with insufficient fat supplementation, which are both crucial parameters for the outcome of Coartem treatment. In contrast to the situation in classic drug trials with ideal treatment conditions, our field survey highlights potential problems with unsupervised usage of Coartem in routine clinical practice and under program conditions.

UI  - 20230885
TI  - Taste-masked quinine pamoate tablets for treatment of children with uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria.
AB  - Fast-dispersible and taste-masked quinine pamoate tablets improved dosing accuracy, allowed easy administration and resulted in a high efficacy during the treatment of children with uncomplicated malaria.

UI  - 20214761
TI  - Efficacy and tolerability of artesunate-amodiaquine (Camoquin plus) versus artemether-lumefantrine (Coartem) against uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria: multisite trial in Senegal and Ivory Coast.
AB  - This study demonstrates the efficacy and tolerability of AS + AQ for uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria treatment in African patients over the age of 7 years.

UI  - 20212335
TI  - The effect of point mutations in dihydrofolate reductase genes and multidrug resistance gene 1-86 on treatment of falciparum malaria in Sudan.
AB  - The research provides the evidence that mutations present in dhfr and mdr1 86 has a significant effect on the type of treatment following SP and AQ chemotherapy. SP resistance may spread rapidly, and AS + AQ is likely to be a better option, provided AQ use is restricted to the combination. The significance of the study shows that definitely combination of drugs improves SP therapy at the study site.

UI  - 20207689
TI  - Rapid testing for malaria in settings where microscopy is available and peripheral clinics where only presumptive treatment is available: a randomised controlled trial in Ghana.
AB  - Where microscopy already exists, introducing rapid diagnostic tests had limited impact on prescriber behaviour. In settings where microscopy was not available, however, using rapid diagnostic tests led to a significant reduction in the overprescription of antimalarials, without any evidence of clinical harm, and to better targeting of antibiotics. Trial registration ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00493922.

UI  - 20187287
TI  - Descriptive study on the efficacy of artemether-lumefantrine in the treatment of uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in Sudan.
AB  - Our findings showed that artemether-lumefantrine was an effective and safe drug for treating uncomplicated P. falciparum malaria in northern and southern Sudan.

UI  - 20180933
TI  - The effect of food consumption on lumefantrine bioavailability in African children receiving artemether-lumefantrine crushed or dispersible tablets (Coartem) for acute uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria.
AB  - AL was highly efficacious. Concomitant food intake increased lumefantrine absorption in children with malaria.

UI  - 20170477
TI  - Efficacy of non-artemisinin- and artemisinin-based combination therapies for uncomplicated falciparum malaria in Cameroon.
AB  - Although AM-LM requires six doses, rather than three doses for other artemisinin-based combinations, it has potential advantages over other forms of ACT. Further studies are needed to evaluate the clinical efficacy and tolerance of these combinations in different epidemiological context.

UI  - 20166428
TI  - Pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of a new ACT formulation: Artesunate/Amodiaquine (TRIMALACT) following oral administration in African malaria patients.
AB  - A new fixed-dose combination of artesunate (AS) plus amodiaquine (AQ) (TRIMALACT) was recently developed for the treatment of uncomplicated falciparum malaria. The originality of this combination lies in its galenic formulation which consists of a three-layer tablet with two layers containing each of the active ingredients, i.e. AS and AQ, and these are separated by a middle layer containing an antioxidant compound. To evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of this combination, adults with uncomplicated malaria received three administrations of two tablets (100:300 mg AS/AQ) in a 24-h interval, in Democratic Republic of Congo. Parasitemia and fever were measured and the plasma levels of parent compounds and metabolites [dihydroartemisinin (DHA) and monodesethylamodiaquine (MdAQ)] were determined by high-performance liquid chromatography. In addition, we determined the prevalence of molecular markers of resistance to chloroquine (CQ) and sulfadoxine/pyrimethamine (SP). The AS/AQ combination TRIMALACT demonstrated a good efficacy resulting in an excellent clinical and parasitological response rate of 100% after correction for PCR results. Treatment regimen was well tolerated. The main disposition parameters to AS+AQ were: for DHA, AUC = 632 +/- 475 ng h/ml and Cmax = 432 +/- 325 ng/ml, and for MdAQ = 14268 +/- 4114 ng h/ml and Cmax = 336 +/- 225 ng/ml (mean +/- standard deviation). Parasite genotyping show high frequencies of molecular SP- and CQ-resistance markers with more 80% of the samples showing more than three mutations linked to SP resistance and 93.48% carrying parasite with the CQ-resistant haplotype. This study shows that the AS/AQ combination TRIMALACT is safe and effective in the treatment of highly drug-resistant falciparum malaria.

UI  - 20152016
TI  - Evaluation of chloroquine therapy for vivax and falciparum malaria in southern Sumatra, western Indonesia.
AB  - These findings confirm persistantly high levels of resistance to chloroquine by P. falciparum in southern Sumatra, and suggest that high-grade and frequent resistance to chloroquine by P. vivax may be spreading westward in the Indonesia archipelago.

UI  - 20149235
TI  - Adherence to and acceptability of artemether-lumefantrine as first-line anti-malarial treatment: evidence from a rural community in Tanzania.
AB  - Adherence to the dosing regimen and timing of AL administration was very good.

UI  - 20144932
TI  - Therapeutic efficacy and effect on gametocyte carriage of an artemisinin and a non-based combination treatment in children with uncomplicated P. falciparum malaria, living in an area with high-level chloroquine resistance.
AB  - Combination therapy with artemesinin or non-artemesinin-based antimalarials (ACTs or NACTs) are known to retard the development and progression of drug resistance in Plasmodium falciparum (P. falciparum). The optimal antimalarial combinations in Africa are yet unknown. We evaluate the therapeutic efficacy and effects on gametocyte carriage of Artemether-Lumefantrine (AL) and Amodiaquine-Sulfalene/Pyrimethamine (ASP) in children with P. falciparum malaria in an endemic area. One-hundred and thirty-nine children aged  10 years with uncomplicated P. falciparum malaria were enrolled. The primary end points were adequate clinical and parasitological response (ACPR), late parasitological failure(LPF), late clinical failure (LCF) and early treatment failure (ETF). Polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-corrected cure rates on days 14-42 and gametocyte carriage rates were determined. Fever clearance time was significantly shorter (P = 0.009) with ASP, but parasite clearance time was similar with both regimens. Day 28 cure rates were 91.4 and 89.9% (PCR-corrected) for AL and ASP respectively. Both regimens were well tolerated. Overall, gametocyte carriage before and following treatment were similar. Both combinations were found effective and comparable for treatment of acute, uncomplicated, P. falciparum malaria.

UI  - 20128355
TI  - [Therapeutic efficacy of a regimen of artesunate-mefloquine-primaquine treatment for Plasmodium falciparum malaria and treatment effects on gametocytic development].
AB  - These studies recommend the use of AS-MQ to treat P. falciparum malaria given its good therapeutic efficacy. However, further assessment is suggested concerning the benefit of adding PQ to this treatment scheme.

UI  - 20128352
TI  - [Changes in retinol, hemoglobin and ferritin concentrations in Colombian children with malaria].
AB  - On day 30, hemoglobin and retinol were high, whereas C reactive protein was low. Simultaneous administration of a retinol supplement and anti-parasite treatment prevented hemoglobin reduction observed on day 8 without changes in other variables.

UI  - 20105282
TI  - Efficacy of amodiaquine, sulphadoxine-pyrimethamine and their combination for the treatment of uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in children in Cameroon at the time of policy change to artemisinin-based combination therapy.
AB  - In this study the prevalence of molecular markers for quinoline and anti-folate resistances showed high levels and differed between the south and north of Cameroon. AQ, SP and AQ+SP treatments were well tolerated but with low levels of efficacy that suggested alternative treatments were needed in Cameroon since 2005.

UI  - 20089781
TI  - Active malaria morbidity management has limited impact on height status of preschool Senegalese children.
AB  - Although infections contribute to growth faltering in preschool children, malaria prevention seems to have limited impact on height status. In 2002-2003, a malaria intermittent preventive treatment (IPT) trial was conducted in Senegal, including randomly selected preschool children from 11 villages. A rapid decrease in stunting prevalence (from 28.3 to 16.3%; P < 0.0001) was reported in both intervention and placebo groups. During this 15-mo period, both groups of children benefited from active detection and prompt treatment of malaria attacks. In this study, we investigated whether management of malaria morbidity could explain the improvement of height status. An anthropometric survey, conducted in September 2004 in the area, included 929 2- to 5-y-old children. Some 539 children, previously included in the 2002-2003 IPT trial, benefited from active malaria morbidity management and formed the malaria trial group. The remaining 390 children constituted the control group. Mean height-for-age and stunting prevalence in September 2004 were compared between groups adjusting for age and mother's activity. Mean height-for-age Z-scores did not differ between trial (-1.17 +/- 0.93) and control children (-1.24 +/- 1.00; P = 0.25). Only 36- to 47-mo-old malaria trial children had a lower prevalence of stunting than controls of similar age (19.4 vs. 28.7%; P = 0.044). Compared with the usually slow progression of height status related to better living conditions, it seems very likely that the rapid improvement observed among IPT study children resulted from the trial. These findings suggest that improved health services provided by the trial may also have benefited children not included living in study villages.

UI  - 20086162
TI  - Pharmacokinetics of chloroquine and monodesethylchloroquine in pregnancy.
AB  - In order to determine the pharmacokinetic disposition of chloroquine (CQ) and its active metabolite, desethylchloroquine (DECQ), when administered as intermittent presumptive treatment in pregnancy (IPTp) for malaria, 30 Papua New Guinean women in the second or third trimester of pregnancy and 30 age-matched nonpregnant women were administered three daily doses of 450 mg CQ (8.5 mg/kg of body weight/day) in addition to a single dose of sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine. For all women, blood was taken at baseline; at 1, 2, 4, 6, 12, 18, 24, 30, 48, and 72 h posttreatment; and at 7, 10, 14, 28, and 42 days posttreatment. Plasma was subsequently assayed for CQ and DECQ by high-performance liquid chromatography, and population pharmacokinetic modeling was performed. Pregnant subjects had significantly lower area under the plasma concentration-time curve for both CQ (35,750 versus 47,892 microg.h/liter, P < 0.001) and DECQ (23,073 versus 41,584 microg.h/liter, P < 0.001), reflecting significant differences in elimination half-lives and in volumes of distribution and clearances relative to bioavailability. Reduced plasma concentrations of both CQ and DECQ could compromise both curative efficacy and posttreatment prophylactic properties in pregnant patients. Higher IPTp CQ doses may be desirable but could increase the risk of adverse hemodynamic effects.

UI  - 20074372
TI  - Intermittent screening and treatment versus intermittent preventive treatment of malaria in pregnancy: user acceptability.
AB  - Overall, both intermittent screening and treatment and intermittent preventive treatment appeared equally acceptable to pregnant women as strategies for the control of malaria in pregnancy. The women were more concerned about quality of services received, in particular the polite and patient attitude of health staff, and positive health implications for themselves and their babies than about the nature of the intervention.

UI  - 20065051
TI  - In vitro sensitivities of Plasmodium falciparum to different antimalarial drugs in Uganda.
AB  - The control of malaria is challenged by resistance of Plasmodium falciparum to multiple drugs. New combination regimens are now advocated for the treatment of uncomplicated falciparum malaria, but the extent of resistance to newer agents is incompletely understood. We measured the in vitro sensitivity of P. falciparum parasites cultured from children enrolled in a drug efficacy trial in Kampala, Uganda, from 2006 to 2008. Sensitivities were measured by comparing levels of histidine-rich protein-2 in parasites incubated with different concentrations of drugs with those in untreated controls. The cultured parasites exhibited a wide range of sensitivities to chloroquine (CQ); monodesethylamodiaquine (MDAQ), the major active metabolite of amodiaquine; and quinine (QN). Mean 50% inhibitory concentration (IC(50)) results were above standard cutoffs for resistance for CQ and MDAQ. Parasites were generally sensitive to dihydroartemisinin (DHA), lumefantrine (LM), and piperaquine (PQ). For CQ, MDAQ, and QN but not the other drugs, activities against individual strains were highly correlated. We also assessed known resistance-mediating polymorphisms in two putative transporters, pfcrt and pfmdr1. When parasites that were least and most sensitive to each drug were compared, the pfmdr1 86Y mutation was significantly more common in parasites that were most resistant to CQ and MDAQ, and the pfmdr1 D1246Y mutation was significantly more common in parasites that were most resistant to MDAQ and QN. In summary, we demonstrated in parasites from Kampala a range of sensitivities to older drugs; correlation of sensitivities to CQ, MDAQ, and QN; and good activity against nearly all strains for DHA, LM, and PQ.

UI  - 20065010
TI  - A randomized trial of artesunate mefloquine versus artemether lumefantrine for the treatment of uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in Senegalese children.
AB  - An open randomized clinical trial study was carried out to compare efficacy and tolerability of artesunate mefloquine 25 mg/kg body weight (Artequin paediatric) versus artemether lumefantrine (Coartem) in the treatment of uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in children. In each arm, 160 patients were assigned to receive either AS + MQ or AL with 28 days follow-up. The adequate clinical and parasitological response at Day 28 for per protocol analysis was after polymerase chain reaction correction, 100% for AS + MQ and 96.8% for AL. In the intention-to-treat analysis, the respective cure rates were 96.2% for AS + MQ and 93.7% for AL. No serious adverse events (AEs) were reported. The most frequent AE was vomiting, 30% in AS + MQ arm and 36% in AL arm. No biological significant abnormal values related to the study drug have been reported. The new pediatric artesunate mefloquine formulated in granule fixed dose combination is well adapted to children in Africa.

UI  - 20003357
TI  - Effectiveness of combined intermittent preventive treatment for children and timely home treatment for malaria control.
AB  - The evaluation result indicates that IPTC given three times in a year combined with timely treatment of febrile malaria illness, impacts significantly on the parasite prevalence. The marked reduction in the parasite prevalence with this strategy points to the potential for reducing malaria-related childhood morbidity and mortality, and this should be explored by control programme managers.

UI  - 19996425
TI  - Therapeutic efficacy and effects of artesunate-mefloquine and mefloquine alone on malaria-associated anemia in children with uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in southwest Nigeria.
AB  - The treatment efficacy and effects of artesunate-mefloquine (AMQ) and mefloquine (MQ) on malaria-associated anemia (MAA) were evaluated in 342 children <or= 10 years of age with uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria randomized to receive either drug/drug combination. All children recovered clinically. Fever clearance times were similar. Parasite clearance was significantly faster with AMQ (mean +/- SD = 1.4 +/- 0.6 days, 95% confidence interval [CI] = 1.3-1.5, P < 0.0001), but polymerase chain reaction-corrected cure rates were similar (97% versus 94%). Gametocyte carriage rates and the drug-attributable fall in hematocrit were significantly lower with AMQ (mean +/- SD = 4.8 +/- 3.8%, 95% CI = 3.6-6.0, P = 0.03), but the rates of resolution of MAA were similar. Both regimens were well tolerated. AMQ clears parasitemia and reduces gametocyte carriage more rapidly and causes lesser fall in hematocrit than MQ, but both regimens are effective treatment of uncomplicated P. falciparum malaria in Nigerian children.

UI  - 19996424
TI  - Chlorproguanil-dapsone-artesunate versus chlorproguanil-dapsone: a randomized, double-blind, phase III trial in African children, adolescents, and adults with uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria.
AB  - This multi-center, randomized, parallel-group, double-blind, double-dummy study compared the efficacy and safety of chlorproguanil-dapsone-artesunate (CDA) and chlorproguanil-dapsone (CPG-DDS) in the treatment of falciparum malaria in Africa (Burkina Faso, Ghana, Mali, Nigeria). Six hundred patients (>or= 1 year of age) received CDA 2.0/2.5/4.0 mg/kg, and 292 CPG-DDS 2.0/2.5 mg/kg, once daily for 3 days. Day 28 parasitologic cure rate (polymerase chain reaction [PCR]-corrected, per-protocol population) was 89.1% (416/467) for CDA, non-inferior but also superior to CPG-DDS, 83.0% (176/212) (treatment difference 6.1%; 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.3, 11.9). Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) genotype was available for 844/892 (95%) patients. Occurrences of a composite hemoglobin safety endpoint (hemoglobin drop >or= 40 g/L or >or= 40% versus baseline, hemoglobin < 50 g/L, or blood transfusion) were CDA 13/44 (30%), CPG-DDS 7/24 (29%) in G6PD-deficient patients versus CDA 4/448 (< 1%), CPG-DDS 6/221 (3%) in G6PD-normal patients. No deaths occurred. CDA was more efficacious than CPG-DDS. However, the hemolytic potential in G6PD-deficient patients does not support further development of CDA.

UI  - 19995933
TI  - Randomized, double-blind study of the safety, tolerability, and efficacy of tafenoquine versus mefloquine for malaria prophylaxis in nonimmune subjects.
AB  - This study represents the first phase III trial of the safety, tolerability, and effectiveness of tafenoquine for malaria prophylaxis. In a randomized (3:1), double-blinded study, Australian soldiers received weekly malaria prophylaxis with 200 mg tafenoquine (492 subjects) or 250 mg mefloquine (162 subjects) for 6 months on a peacekeeping deployment to East Timor. After returning to Australia, tafenoquine-receiving subjects received a placebo and mefloquine-receiving subjects received 30 mg primaquine daily for 14 days. There were no clinically significant differences between hematological and biochemical parameters of the treatment groups. Treatment-related adverse events for the two groups were similar (tafenoquine, 13.4%; mefloquine, 11.7%). Three subjects on tafenoquine (0.6%) and none on mefloquine discontinued prophylaxis because of possible drug-related adverse events. No diagnoses of malaria occurred for either group during deployment, but 4 cases (0.9%) and 1 case (0.7%) of Plasmodium vivax infection occurred among the tafenoquine and mefloquine groups, respectively, up to 20 weeks after discontinuation of medication. In a subset of subjects recruited for detailed safety assessments, treatment-related mild vortex keratopathy was detected in 93% (69 of 74) of tafenoquine subjects but none of the 21 mefloquine subjects. The vortex keratopathy was not associated with any effect on visual acuity and was fully resolved in all subjects by 1 year. Tafenoquine appears to be safe and well tolerated as malaria prophylaxis. Although the volunteers' precise exposure to malaria could not be proven in this study, tafenoquine appears to be a highly efficacious drug for malaria prophylaxis.

UI  - 19961564
TI  - Deploying artemether-lumefantrine with rapid testing in Ethiopian communities: impact on malaria morbidity, mortality and healthcare resources.
AB  - Artemether-lumefantrine deployment through a community-based service in a remote rural population reduced malaria transmission, lowered the malaria case burden for health facilities and reduced malaria morbidity and mortality during a 2-year period which included a major malaria epidemic.

UI  - 19948038
TI  - Safety and tolerability of artemether-lumefantrine versus dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine for malaria in young HIV-infected and uninfected children.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT00527800; http://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT00527800.

UI  - 19936217
TI  - Dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine and artemether-lumefantrine for treating uncomplicated malaria in African children: a randomised, non-inferiority trial.
AB  - Controlled-trials.com ISRCTN16263443.

UI  - 19922255
TI  - A clinical trial of the traditional medicine Vernonia amygdalina in the treatment of uncomplicated malaria.
AB  - Further studies are needed to determine whether the efficacy can be improved by increasing the dose, changing the preparation, or adding other antimalarial plants.

UI  - 19905933
TI  - Selection of parasites with diminished drug susceptibility by amodiaquine-containing antimalarial regimens in Uganda.
AB  - Prior therapy selected for diminished response to MDAQ, which suggests that AQ-containing regimens may rapidly lose efficacy in Africa. The mechanism of diminished MDAQ response is not fully explained by known mutations in pfmdr1.

UI  - 19877969
TI  - Artemether-lumefantrine versus dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine for falciparum malaria: a longitudinal, randomized trial in young Ugandan children.
AB  - Artemether-lumefantrine and dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine were both efficacious and had similar long-term effects on the risk of recurrent malaria. Clinical trials registration. NCT00527800.

UI  - 19856512
TI  - [Sensitivity of Plasmodium vivax to chloroquine in Laza City, Myanmar].
AB  - Fourty-eight patients infected by Plasmodium vivax were randomly divided into chloroquine regimen groups A and B. Each case in group A received a total dosage of 1 200 mg(base) over a 3-day period (600 mg on the first day then 300 mg daily). Cases in group B each received total dosage of 1 500 mg (base) in 3 days (750 mg on the first day then 375 mg daily). Body temperature and blood smears were examined on days 0, 1, 2, 3, 7, 14, 21 and 28, respectively. All patients were negative for asexual parasites within 3 days. The cure rate on day 28 was 100%. Results showed that P. vivax is sensitive to chloroquine in Laza, Myanmar, and chloroquine can still be used for the imported vivax malaria cases at the China-Myanmar border.

UI  - 19848610
TI  - No rebound of morbidity following intermittent preventive sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine treatment of malaria in infants in Gabon.
AB  - In the context of a trial studying intermittent preventive sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine treatment of malaria in infants in Lambarn, Gabon, children aged 18-30 months were followed up after having received their last dose at an age of 15 months. In the intention-to-treat population, the protective efficacy against all malaria episodes was -18.0 (95% confidence interval, -97.4 to 29.5; P = .529). The protective efficacy against first or only anemia episode was -45.3 (95% confidence interval, -234.5 to 36.3; P=.375). The protective efficacies were negative and were not statistically significant. These results do not appear to support the concept of a rebound effect after intermittent preventive sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine treatment of malaria in infants. Clinical trials registration. NCT00167843.

UI  - 19841150
TI  - Molecular correlates of high-level antifolate resistance in Rwandan children with Plasmodium falciparum malaria.
AB  - Antifolate drugs have an important role in the treatment of malaria. Polymorphisms in the genes encoding the dihydrofolate reductase and dihydropteroate synthetase enzymes cause resistance to the antifol and sulfa drugs, respectively. Rwanda has the highest levels of antimalarial drug resistance in Africa. We correlated the efficacy of chlorproguanil-dapsone plus artesunate (CPG-DDS+A) and amodiaquine plus sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine (AQ+SP) in children with uncomplicated malaria caused by Plasmodium falciparum parasites with pfdhfr and pfdhps mutations, which are known to confer reduced drug susceptibility, in two areas of Rwanda. In the eastern province, where the cure rates were low, over 75% of isolates had three or more pfdhfr mutations and two or three pfdhps mutations and 11% had the pfdhfr 164-Leu polymorphism. In the western province, where the cure rates were significantly higher (P < 0.001), the prevalence of multiple resistance mutations was lower and the pfdhfr I164L polymorphism was not found. The risk of treatment failure following the administration of AQ+SP more than doubled for each additional pfdhfr resistance mutation (odds ratio [OR] = 2.4; 95% confidence interval [CI] = 1.01 to 5.55; P = 0.048) and each pfdhps mutation (OR = 2.1; 95% CI = 1.21 to 3.54; P = 0.008). The risk of failure following CPG-DDS+A treatment was 2.2 times higher (95% CI = 1.34 to 3.7) for each additional pfdhfr mutation, whereas there was no association with mutations in the pfdhps gene (P = 0.13). The pfdhfr 164-Leu polymorphism is prevalent in eastern Rwanda. Antimalarial treatments with currently available antifol-sulfa combinations are no longer effective in Rwanda because of high-level resistance.

UI  - 19835832
TI  - Therapeutic efficacy of chloroquine and chloroquine plus primaquine for the treatment of Plasmodium vivax in Ethiopia.
AB  - Plasmodium vivax is the second most important cause of morbidity in Ethiopia. There is, however, little information on P. vivax resistance to chloroquine and chloroquine plus primaquine treatment although these drugs have been used as the first line treatment for over 50 years. We assessed the efficacy of standard chloroquine and chloroquine plus primaquine treatment for P. vivax infections in a randomized open-label comparative study in Debre Zeit and Nazareth in East Shoa, Ethiopia. A total of 290 patients with microscopically confirmed P. vivax malaria who presented to the outpatient settings of the two laboratory centers were enrolled: 145 patients were randomized to receive CQ and 145 to receive CQ+PQ treatment. Participants were followed-up for 28-157 days according to the WHO procedures. There were 12 (6.5%) lost to follow-up patients and 9 (3.1%) withdrawals. In all, 96% (277/290) of patients were analysed at day 28. Baseline characteristics were similar in all treatment groups. In all, 98.6% (275/277) of patients had cleared their parasitemia on day 3 with no difference in mean parasite clearance time between regimens (48.34+/-17.68, 50.67+/-15.70 h for the CQ and CQ+PQ group, respectively, P=0.25). The cumulative incidence of therapeutic failure at day 28 by a life-table analysis method was 5.76% (95% CI: 2.2-14.61) and 0.75% (95% CI: 0.11-5.2%) in the CQ and CQ+PQ group, respectively (P=0.19). The relapse rate was 8% (9/108) for the CQ group and 3% (4/132) for the comparison group (P=0.07). The cumulative risk of relapse at day 157 by a life-table method was 61.8% (95% CI: 20.1-98.4%) in the CQ group, compared with 26.3% (95% CI: 7.5-29.4%) in the CQ+PQ group (P=0.0038). The study confirms the emergence of CQ and PQ resistance/treatment failure in P. vivax malaria in Ethiopia. Although treatment failures were detected, they were similar between the treatment groups. We recommend regular monitoring and periodic evaluation of the efficacy of these antimalarial drugs in systematically selected sentinel sites to detect further development of resistance and to make timely national antimalarial drug policy changes.

UI  - 19817958
TI  - Ursodeoxycholic acid and artesunate in the treatment of severe falciparum malaria patients with jaundice.
AB  - In severe PF malaria patients with jaundice, combined therapy with UDCA and artesunate is safe, but does not significantly improve liver tests compared to placebo and artesunate.

UI  - 19803020
TI  - Potential toxicity of chlorpheniramine plus chloroquine for the treatment of childhood malaria.
AB  - The higher rates of drowsiness and lower respiratory rates in children treated with higher dose CP+CQ calls for caution in the clinical application of the higher dose combination. The higher dose has no additional benefit and may in fact be dangerous.

UI  - 19769536
TI  - Azithromycin plus artesunate versus artemether-lumefantrine for treatment of uncomplicated malaria in Tanzanian children: a randomized, controlled trial.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00694694.

UI  - 19733875
TI  - Argemone mexicana decoction versus artesunate-amodiaquine for the management of malaria in Mali: policy and public-health implications.
AB  - A classic way of delaying drug resistance is to use an alternative when possible. We tested the malaria treatment Argemone mexicana decoction (AM), a validated self-prepared traditional medicine made with one widely available plant and safe across wide dose variations. In an attempt to reflect the real situation in the home-based management of malaria in a remote Malian village, 301 patients with presumed uncomplicated malaria (median age 5 years) were randomly assigned to receive AM or artesunate-amodiaquine [artemisinin combination therapy (ACT)] as first-line treatment. Both treatments were well tolerated. Over 28 days, second-line treatment was not required for 89% (95% CI 84.1-93.2) of patients on AM, versus 95% (95% CI 88.8-98.3) on ACT. Deterioration to severe malaria was 1.9% in both groups in children aged </=5 years (there were no cases in patients aged >5 years) and 0% had coma/convulsions. AM, now government-approved in Mali, could be tested as a first-line complement to standard modern drugs in high-transmission areas, in order to reduce the drug pressure for development of resistance to ACT, in the management of malaria. In view of the low rate of severe malaria and good tolerability, AM may also constitute a first-aid treatment when access to other antimalarials is delayed.

UI  - 19725966
TI  - The neurological assessment in young children treated with artesunate monotherapy or artesunate-mefloquine combination therapy for uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria.
AB  - In keeping with the results of randomized controlled trials in adults, mefloquine was not associated with a decrease in specific items of neurological performance. Likewise, children treated with artesunate did not perform significantly differently to control children. This study does not exclude subtle or rare treatment CNS effects of artesunate or mefloquine. Treatment of acute uncomplicated malaria results in a significant improvement on items of neurological performance.

UI  - 19709418
TI  - Measurement of adherence, drug concentrations and the effectiveness of artemether-lumefantrine, chlorproguanil-dapsone or sulphadoxine-pyrimethamine in the treatment of uncomplicated malaria in Malawi.
AB  - This study provides reassurance of the effectiveness of AL, even with unsupervised dosing, as it is rolled out across sub-Saharan Africa. Self-reported adherence appears to be an unreliable measure of adherence in this population.

UI  - 19698172
TI  - Efficacy of artesunate-amodiaquine for treating uncomplicated falciparum malaria in sub-Saharan Africa: a multi-centre analysis.
AB  - AS&AQ compares well to other treatments and meets the WHO efficacy criteria for use against falciparum malaria in many, but not all, the sub-Saharan African countries where it was studied. Efficacy varies between and within countries. An IPD analysis can inform general and local treatment policies. Ongoing monitoring evaluation is required.

UI  - 19691851
TI  - Population pharmacokinetics of artesunate and amodiaquine in African children.
AB  - The bioavailability of the co-formulated AS-AQ FDC was similar to that of the separate tablets for desethylamodiaquine, DHA and the total anti-malarial activity. These data support the use this new AS-AQ FDC in children with acute uncomplicated falciparum malaria.

UI  - 19690618
TI  - Chlorproguanil-dapsone-artesunate versus artemether-lumefantrine: a randomized, double-blind phase III trial in African children and adolescents with uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.Gov NCT00344006.

UI  - 19673614
TI  - Use of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma agonists as adjunctive treatment for Plasmodium falciparum malaria: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov identifier NCT00149383 .

UI  - 19671190
TI  - Artemisinin-naphthoquine combination (ARCO) therapy for uncomplicated falciparum malaria in adults of Papua New Guinea: a preliminary report on safety and efficacy.
AB  - While these data are not themselves sufficient, it strongly suggests that the ANQ combination as a single dose administration is safe and effective for the treatment of uncomplicated P. falciparum malaria in the adult population of Papua New Guinea and deserves further clinical evaluation.

UI  - 19664280
TI  - Varying efficacy of artesunate+amodiaquine and artesunate+sulphadoxine-pyrimethamine for the treatment of uncomplicated falciparum malaria in the Democratic Republic of Congo: a report of two in-vivo studies.
AB  - The finding of varying efficacy of the same combinations at two sites in one country highlights one difficulty of implementing a uniform national treatment policy in a large country. The poor efficacy of AS+AQ in Boende should alert the national programme to foci of resistance and emphasizes the need for systems for the prospective monitoring of treatment efficacy at sentinel sites in the country.

UI  - 19649267
TI  - Safety and efficacy of dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine in falciparum malaria: a prospective multi-centre individual patient data analysis.
AB  - DP proved a safe, well tolerated, and highly effective treatment of P.falciparum malaria in Asia and Africa, but the effect on gametocyte carriage was inferior to that of MAS3.

UI  - 19641202
TI  - Artemisinin resistance in Plasmodium falciparum malaria.
AB  - P. falciparum has reduced in vivo susceptibility to artesunate in western Cambodia as compared with northwestern Thailand. Resistance is characterized by slow parasite clearance in vivo without corresponding reductions on conventional in vitro susceptibility testing. Containment measures are urgently needed. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00493363, and Current Controlled Trials number, ISRCTN64835265.)

UI  - 19630971
TI  - Safety of epoietin beta-quinine drug combination in children with cerebral malaria in Mali.
AB  - These data provide the first evidence of the short-term safety of erythropoietin at high doses combined to quinine. A multicentre study is needed to assess the potential of Epo as an adjunctive therapy to increase the survival during cerebral malaria. CLINICAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: ClinicalTrials.gov ID: NCT00697164.

UI  - 19622553
TI  - Effectiveness of quinine versus artemether-lumefantrine for treating uncomplicated falciparum malaria in Ugandan children: randomised trial.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00540202.

UI  - 19575797
TI  - A comparative, randomized clinical trial of artemisinin/naphtoquine twice daily one day versus artemether/lumefantrine six doses regimen in children and adults with uncomplicated falciparum malaria in Cte d'Ivoire.
AB  - These data suggest that Arco could prove to be suitable for use as combination antimalarial therapy. Meanwhile, pharmacokinetic studies and further efficacy assessment should be conducted before its widespread use can be supported.

UI  - 19568711
TI  - A randomized, controlled trial of artemisinin-piperaquine vs dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine phosphate in treatment of falciparum malaria.
AB  - Both medicines had high cure rates, low recrudescence rates, and no serious adverse reactions. The administration of Artequick, however, was more convenient and lower incidence of gastrointestinal side effects than that of Artekin, so as to increase the efficacy in the malaria population.

UI  - 19564366
TI  - Population pharmacokinetics of lumefantrine in pregnant women treated with artemether-lumefantrine for uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria.
AB  - Artemether-lumefantrine has become one of the most widely used antimalarial drugs in the world. The objective of this study was to determine the population pharmacokinetic properties of lumefantrine in pregnant women with uncomplicated multidrug-resistant Plasmodium falciparum malaria on the northwestern border of Thailand. Burmese and Karen women (n = 103) with P. falciparum malaria and in the second and third trimesters of pregnancy were treated with artemether-lumefantrine (80/480 mg) twice daily for 3 days. All patients provided five capillary plasma samples for drug quantification, and the collection times were randomly distributed over 14 days. The concentration-time profiles of lumefantrine were assessed by nonlinear mixed-effects modeling. The treatment failure rate (PCR-confirmed recrudescent infections at delivery) was high; 16.5% (95% confidence interval, 9.9 to 25.1). The population pharmacokinetics of lumefantrine were described well by a two-compartment open model with first-order absorption and elimination. The final model included interindividual variability in all pharmacokinetic parameters and a linear covariate relationship between the estimated gestational age and the central volume of distribution. A high proportion of all women (40%, 41/103) had day 7 capillary plasma concentrations of <355 ng/ml (which corresponds to approximately <280 ng/ml in venous plasma), a threshold previously associated with an increased risk of therapeutic failure in nonpregnant patients in this area. Predictive modeling suggests that a twice-daily regimen given for 5 days would be preferable in later pregnancy. In conclusion, altered pharmacokinetic properties of lumefantrine contribute to the high rates of failure of artemether-lumefantrine treatment in later pregnancy. Dose optimization is urgently needed.

UI  - 19558654
TI  - Efficacy of sulphadoxine-pyrimethamine with or without artesunate for the treatment of uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in southern Mozambique: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - NCT00203736 and NCT00203814.

UI  - 19549001
TI  - Adherence to artesunate-amodiaquine combination therapy for uncomplicated malaria in children in Zanzibar, Tanzania.
AB  - We found moderate levels of caretaker adherence to AsAq. Further improvement could be achieved by producing dose-specific packaging for infants, providing clear instructions and giving the first dose under observation at the HF.

UI  - 19528277
TI  - Pharmacokinetics and ex vivo pharmacodynamic antimalarial activity of dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine in patients with uncomplicated falciparum malaria in Vietnam.
AB  - Compared to healthy subjects, malaria patients show a reduction in the mean oral clearance (1.19 versus 5.87 liters/h/kg of body weight) and apparent volume of distribution (1.47 versus 8.02 liters/kg) of dihydroartemisinin in Vietnamese patients following treatment with dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine (Artekin) for uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum. Dihydroartemisinin is responsible for most of the ex vivo antimalarial activity of dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine.

UI  - 19517101
TI  - Pharmacokinetics of chlorproguanil, dapsone, artesunate and their major metabolites in patients during treatment of acute uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria.
AB  - Artesunate did not significantly affect CPG or DDS pharmacokinetics. For CCG and MADDS, small to moderate increases in exposure with artesunate dosing were observed. There was a greater than proportional increase in artesunate and DHA exposure with increasing artesunate dose. These effects are not considered to be clinically relevant. It should be noted that the CPG-DDS-artesunate programme has now been stopped following unacceptable haematological toxicity in patients with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency during a phase III trial. In addition, the CPG-DDS combination has been withdrawn from clinical use.

UI  - 19505304
TI  - Randomized, multicentre assessment of the efficacy and safety of ASAQ--a fixed-dose artesunate-amodiaquine combination therapy in the treatment of uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria.
AB  - The protocol was registered with the www.clinicaltrials.gov open clinical trial registry under the identifier number NCT00316329.

UI  - 19500037
TI  - Antibodies to variant surface antigens of Plasmodium falciparum-infected erythrocytes are associated with protection from treatment failure and the development of anemia in pregnancy.
AB  - Higher levels of both IgG antibodies to VSA-PAM and opsonizing antibodies, a functional measure of immunity, correlate with parasite clearance and less anemia in pregnancy malaria.

UI  - 19497079
TI  - Intermittent preventive treatment using artemisinin-based combination therapy reduces malaria morbidity among school-aged children in Mali.
AB  - IPT among school children reduced the rates of clinical malaria, all-cause acute clinic visits, asymptomatic parasitemia and anaemia among school-aged children.

UI  - 19478249
TI  - Effect of malaria rapid diagnostic tests on the management of uncomplicated malaria with artemether-lumefantrine in Kenya: a cluster randomized trial.
AB  - Shortly after Kenya introduced artemether-lumefantrine (AL) for first-line treatment of uncomplicated malaria, we conducted a pre-post cluster randomized controlled trial to assess the effect of providing malaria rapid diagnostic tests (RDTs) on recommended treatment (patients with malaria prescribed AL) and overtreatment (patients without malaria prescribed AL) in outpatients >/= 5 years old. Sixty health facilities were randomized to receive either RDTs plus training, guidelines, and supervision (TGS) or TGS alone. Of 1,540 patients included in the analysis, 7% had uncomplicated malaria. The provision of RDTs coupled with TGS emphasizing AL use only after laboratory confirmation of malaria reduced recommended treatment by 63%-points (P = 0.04), because diagnostic test use did not change (-2%-points), but health workers significantly reduced presumptive treatment with AL for patients with a clinical diagnosis of malaria who did not undergo testing (-36%-points; P = 0.03). Health workers generally adhered to RDT results when prescribing AL: 88% of RDT-positive and 9% of RDT-negative patients were treated with AL, respectively. Overtreatment was low in both arms and was not significantly reduced by the provision of RDTs (-12%-points, P = 0.30). RDTs could potentially improve malaria case management, but we urgently need to develop more effective strategies for implementing guidelines before large scale implementation.

UI  - 19478247
TI  - Impact of ministry of health interventions on private medicine retailer knowledge and practices on anti-malarial treatment in Kenya.
AB  - Small-scale interventions on training medicine retailers on malaria treatment improve over-the-counter medicine use, but there is little evidence on effectiveness when scaled up. This study evaluated the impact of Ministry of Health (MoH) training programs on the knowledge and practices of medicine retailers in three districts in Kenya. A cluster randomized trial was planned across 10 administrative divisions. Findings indicated that 30.7% (95% confidence interval [CI]: 23.3, 39.0) and 5.2% (95% CI: 2.1, 10.3) of program and control retailers, respectively, sold MoH amodiaquine with correct advice on use to surrogate clients (OR = 8.8; 95% CI: 2.9, 26.9; P < 0.001). Similarly, 61.8% (95% CI: 54.2, 69.1) and 6.3% (95% CI: 2.7, 12.1) of program and control retailers, respectively, reported correct knowledge on dosing with amodiaquine (OR = 29.8; 95% CI: 8.2, 108.8). Large-scale retailer training programs within the national malaria control framework led to significant improvements in retailers' practices across three districts.

UI  - 19469703
TI  - Comparison of sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine, unsupervised artemether-lumefantrine, and unsupervised artesunate-amodiaquine fixed-dose formulation for uncomplicated plasmodium falciparum malaria in Benin: a randomized effectiveness noninferiority trial.
AB  - This was the first trial, to our knowledge, to compare unsupervised AL with unsupervised ASAQ fixed-dose formulation; both treatments provided high PCR-adjusted day 28 effectiveness rates. Efficacy rates for SP were surprisingly low. Clinical trials registration. NCT00460369.

UI  - 19464245
TI  - Efficacy of oral single dose therapy with artemisinin-naphthoquine phosphate in uncomplicated falciparum malaria.
AB  - All artemisinin-based combination therapies (ACTs), recommended by the World Health Organization, are 3-day regimens. A considerable level of non-compliance on ACTs has been reported from some countries. The study aimed to assess the therapeutic efficacy of single dose treatment with new generation ACT containing artemisinin plus naphthoquine. An oral single dose of eight tablets (400 mg of naphthoquine+1000 mg artemisinin) of the combination drug was administered to adult uncomplicated falciparum malaria patients. Observations of fever, parasite clearance and reappearance, and other clinical manifestations were made on Days 0, 1, 2, 3, 7, 14, 21 and 28. Fifty-three adult falciparum positive cases, with fever or history of fever within the previous 24 h, were included in the final evaluation of the study. Mean fever clearance time, parasite clearance time were 18.2+/-8.6 h and 34.6+/-14.3 h, respectively. Adequate clinical and parasitological response was achieved in 52 cases, the rate being 98.1% (95% CI, 91.1-99.9). One patient was classified as late parasitological failure because of the reappearance of falciparum parasite on Day 14. The drug was well tolerated and no adverse reactions were detected in the patients. Since it is a single dose therapy, health workers can administer the drug as directly observed treatment.

UI  - 19462557
TI  - Plasmodium falciparum: high frequency of pfcrt point mutations and emergence of new mutant haplotypes in Colombia.
AB  - No significant association was confirmed between specific haplotypes and the treatment response in any of the treatment groups. Two haplotypes, SMET and SMNT, were reported for the first time in Colombia. Twelve percent of the samples carried both mixed mutant and wild-type alleles.

UI  - 19454000
TI  - Therapeutic efficacy of artemether-lumefantrine in uncomplicated falciparum malaria in India.
AB  - AL is safe and effective drug for the treatment of acute uncomplicated falciparum malaria in India. The polymorphism in pfmdr1 gene is not co-related with clinical outcome. However, treatment failure can also occur due to incomplete absorption of the drug as is suspected in one case of failure at D7 in the study. AL can be a viable alternative of artesunate plus sulphadoxine/pyrimethamine (AS + SP), however, the drug should be used rationally and efficacy needs to be monitored periodically.

UI  - 19426658
TI  - Low efficacy of chloroquine: time to switchover to artemisinin-based combination therapy for falciparum malaria in India.
AB  - Drug resistance in Plasmodium falciparum poses a major threat to malaria control globally; including India. Chloroquine is still the most widely used drug in the country because of its safety and cost effectiveness. Although chloroquine resistance was first reported in 1973 in North Eastern India, the extent of the problem was realized only after the more intensive 28-day drug efficacy studies were used to monitor drug resistance. In the present study, efficacy of chloroquine in treatment of uncomplicated falciparum malaria was investigated using standard World Health Organization (WHO) procedures in three distinct epidemiological settings. The prevalence of molecular markers of drug resistance, Pfcrt K76T, Pfmdr1 N86Y, was also studied. A total of 374 children and adults with uncomplicated P. falciparum malaria were enrolled at six sites in four states, treated with chloroquine and follow-up was done for 28 days. The cumulative incidence of success of chloroquine at Day 28 by the Kaplan Meier analysis in the state of Orissa (District Sundargarh, CHC Bisra and Kuarmunda) was 57 (95% CI 43-68) and 54 (95% CI 40-66); in the state of Jharkhand (District Ranchi, PHC Angara and District Simdega, PHC Jaldega) it was 72 (95% CI 59-81) and 65 (95% CI 50-76); in the state of Goa (District North-Goa, Panaji Town), it was 20 (95% CI 10-2) and in the state of Rajasthan (District Udaipur, PHC Rishabdev), it was 96 (95% CI 85-99). Treatment failure was related to Pfcrt mutations but not Pfmdr mutations. Early treatment failure was observed only in 15.8% out of total failures, probably due to the semi-immune nature of the population. This type of response may give false perception about efficacy of the failing drug to patients, clinicians and National Authorities. In a large country like India it is not feasible to conduct in vivo studies in all districts and lack of direct correlation between molecular markers, in vitro studies and treatment outcome makes it difficult to predict the areas requiring change of policy. In this scenario, it is a challenge for National Programmes to make evidence-based revisions in the drug policy. However, considering the global, especially Southeast Asian, scenario and interpretation of available in vivo data, trends of mutations, availability of effective drugs and support of international donors, India should consider changing the first line treatment, at least for all diagnosed P. falciparum cases.

UI  - 19415120
TI  - Strong gametocytocidal effect of methylene blue-based combination therapy against falciparum malaria: a randomised controlled trial.
AB  - (ClinicalTrials.gov) NCT00354380.

UI  - 19390740
TI  - Relationship between plasma and red blood cell concentrations of quinine in Brazilian children with uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria on oral therapy.
AB  - We determined the relationship between plasma and red blood cell concentrations of quinine in children with uncomplicated falciparum malaria from an endemic area of Amazonian region. Quinine was determined by high performance liquid chromatography with ultraviolet detection. In the steady state the ratio between plasma and red blood cell quinine concentration was 1.89 +/- 1.25 ranging from 1.05 to 2.34. This result demonstrated that quinine do not concentrate in red blood cell of Brazilian children and characterize the absence of interracial difference in this relationship.

UI  - 19366448
TI  - Efficacy and safety of a fixed dose artesunate-sulphamethoxypyrazine-pyrimethamine compared to artemether-lumefantrine for the treatment of uncomplicated falciparum malaria across Africa: a randomized multi-centre trial.
AB  - NCT00484900 http://www.clinicaltrials.gov.

UI  - 19362361
TI  - Home management of malaria with artemether-lumefantrine compared with standard care in urban Ugandan children: a randomised controlled trial.
AB  - Gates Malaria Partnership.

UI  - 19358697
TI  - Mefloquine pharmacokinetics and mefloquine-artesunate effectiveness in Peruvian patients with uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria.
AB  - All three formulations had similar pharmacokinetics; in addition, the pharmacokinetics seen in this Peruvian population were similar to reports from other ethnic groups. All patients rapidly cleared their parasitaemia with no evidence of recrudescence by Day 56. Continued surveillance is needed to ensure that patients continue to receive optimal therapy.

UI  - 19352498
TI  - Randomized trial of artesunate+amodiaquine, sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine+amodiaquine, chlorproguanal-dapsone and SP for malaria in pregnancy in Tanzania.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00146731.

UI  - 19346370
TI  - Phase I/II evaluation of the prophylactic antimalarial activity of pafuramidine in healthy volunteers challenged with Plasmodium falciparum sporozoites.
AB  - We evaluated the causal prophylactic antimalarial activity of a single oral dose of pafuramidine (DB289), an experimental prodrug of active metabolite DB75, in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, outpatient study. Sixteen healthy volunteers were dosed and challenged in a single cohort. Subjects were randomly assigned to one of three treatment arms: 100 mg pafuramidine eight days before challenge, 100 mg pafuramidine the day before challenge, or placebo. Challenge was by the bites of Plasmodium falciparum-infected Anopheles gambiae. Malaria developed in 15 persons but did not develop in one person in the day -8 pafuramidine treatment arm. Plasma levels of DB75 were lower than expected, and as intended were too low to provide suppressive prophylaxis at the earliest appearance of erythrocytic parasites. We conclude that a single dose of 100 mg pafuramidine does not adequately protect non-immune individuals against P. falciparum and shows no clinically or statistically significant evidence of causal prophylactic activity.

UI  - 19341535
TI  - Safety of artemisinins during early pregnancy, assessed in 62 Sudanese women.
AB  - Between June 2006 and October 2008, the safety of artemisinins during early human pregnancy was assessed in central-eastern Sudan. Pregnant women in the first or second trimester who were attending antenatal-care clinics at the Wad Medani, Gadarif and New Halfa hospitals were interviewed. Each was asked if they had had malaria in the first trimester of the index pregnancy and, if so, what treatment they had received. The women who had received artemisinins were then followed-up until delivery and their babies were followed-up until they were 1-year-olds. Overall, 62 of the pregnant women reported receiving artemisinins - artemether injections (48), artesunate plus sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine (11) or artemether plus lumefantrine (three) - during the first trimester. Medical records were available for 51 (82%) of these 62 women, and, in each case, these records showed the reported treatment and that malaria had been confirmed. Only nine (15%) of the 62 women given artemisinins had not known that they were pregnant when treated. Two of the treated women (both given artemether injections in the first trimester) had miscarriages, one at 20 weeks of gestation and the other at 22 weeks, each while receiving quinine infusions for a second attack of malaria. The other 60 women who had received artemisinins delivered apparently healthy babies at full term. No congenital malformations were detected, there was no preterm labour, no maternal deaths were recorded during the follow-up, and none of the babies died during their first year of life. It therefore appears that artemisinins may be safe to use during early pregnancy, although further study is clearly needed.

UI  - 19331684
TI  - Field-adapted sampling of whole blood to determine the levels of amodiaquine and its metabolite in children with uncomplicated malaria treated with amodiaquine plus artesunate combination.
AB  - The methodology is suitable for field studies. The possibility to determine the concentration of the active metabolite of amodiaquine up to 28 days suggested that the method is sensitive enough to monitor amodiaquine utilization in patients. Amodiaquine plus artesunate seems effective for treatment of falciparum malaria.

UI  - 19320869
TI  - Open label randomized comparison of dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine and artesunate-amodiaquine for the treatment of uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in central Vietnam.
AB  - AAQ, an inexpensive artemisinin-based combination, could be an additional option to DHP for the treatment of multidrug-resistant falciparum malaria in Vietnam.

UI  - 19291301
TI  - The efficacy and safety of a new fixed-dose combination of amodiaquine and artesunate in young African children with acute uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum.
AB  - Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN07576538.

UI  - 19270300
TI  - Performance of malaria rapid diagnostic tests as part of routine malaria case management in Kenya.
AB  - Data on malaria rapid diagnostic test (RDT) performance under routine program conditions are limited. We assessed the attributes of RDTs performed by study and health facility (HF) staffs as part of routine malaria case management of patients > or = 5 years of age in Kenya. Expert microscopy was used as our gold standard. A total of 1,827 patients were enrolled; 191 (11.6%) were parasitemic by expert microscopy. Sensitivity and specificity of RDTs performed by study staff were 86.6% (95% confidence interval [CI]: 79.8-93.5%) and 95.4% (95% CI: 93.9-96.9%), respectively. Among tests performed by HF staff, RDTs were 91.7% (95% CI: 80.8-100.0%) sensitive and 96.7% (95% CI: 92.8-100.0%) specific, whereas microscopy was 52.5% (95% CI: 33.2-71.9%) sensitive and 77.0% (95% CI: 67.9-86.2%) specific. Our findings suggest that RDTs perform better than microscopy under routine conditions. Further efforts are needed to maintain this high RDT performance over time.

UI  - 19270299
TI  - Community-based promotional campaign to improve uptake of intermittent preventive antimalarial treatment in pregnancy in Burkina Faso.
AB  - Malaria preventive strategies in pregnancy were assessed in a health center randomized trial comparing intermittent preventive treatment with sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine (IPTp-SP) with and without community based promotional activities in rural Burkina Faso. The study involved 2,240 secundigravidae and secundigravidae and evaluated factors associated with antenatal clinic (ANC) attendance and uptake of IPTp-SP. With promotion, 64.2% completed > or = 3 ANC visits compared with 44.7% without (P = 0.05). Complete uptake of IPTp-SP was 71.8% with and 49.1% without promotion (P = 0.008). The IPTp-SP uptake was lowest in adolescents delivering during high malaria transmission with (29%) or without promotion (30%). Uptake of SP was higher during the low transmission season than in the high transmission season (adjusted odds ratio = 2.17, 95% confidence interval = 1.59-3.03). Community sensitization increased ANC attendance and IPTp-SP uptake. Adolescents were the most difficult to reach, particularly during the high malaria transmission period. The impact of IPTp-SP will be limited unless this high risk group is protected.

UI  - 19265453
TI  - A randomised controlled trial of artemether-lumefantrine versus artesunate for uncomplicated plasmodium falciparum treatment in pregnancy.
AB  - Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN86353884.

UI  - 19257898
TI  - Extended high efficacy of the combination sulphadoxine-pyrimethamine with artesunate in children with uncomplicated falciparum malaria on the Benin coast, West Africa.
AB  - Combining artesunate to SP dramatically increased the treatment efficacy, even when extending the follow-up to day 90 post-treatment, and despite the high percentage of failures following treatment with SP alone. Such a good performance may be explained by the low prevalence of the dhps 540 mutation, by the rapid parasite clearance with artesunate and by the level of acquired immunity.

UI  - 19245687
TI  - Efficacy of chloroquine, amodiaquine and sulphadoxine-pyrimethamine for the treatment of uncomplicated falciparum malaria: revisiting molecular markers in an area of emerging AQ and SP resistance in Mali.
AB  - In this study, treatment with sulphadoxine-pyrimethamine emerged as the most efficacious on uncomplicated falciparum malaria followed by amodiaquine. The study demonstrated that sulphadoxine-pyrimethamine and amodiaquine were appropriate partner drugs that could be associated with artemisinin derivatives in an artemisinin-based combination therapy.

UI  - 19222821
TI  - Rapid malaria diagnostic tests vs. clinical management of malaria in rural Burkina Faso: safety and effect on clinical decisions. A randomized trial.
AB  - Our study was inconclusive on RDT safety (clinical outcome in the two randomized groups), because of an exceedingly and unexpectedly low compliance with the negative test result. Further research is needed on best strategies to promote adherence and on the safety of a test based strategy compared with the current, presumptive treatment strategy.

UI  - 19219270
TI  - Quinine levels in patients with uncomplicated falciparum malaria in the Amazon region of Brazil.
AB  - We examined the plasmatic concentrations of quinine in patients with uncomplicated falciparum malaria in an endemic area of the Amazon region in Brazil in a prospective clinical trial, in which a standard three-day course of oral quinine plus doxycycline was used. We measured the quinine in the plasma samples on days 0 and 3 by high performance liquid chromatography. The mean concentration of quinine was 6.04 +/-2.21 microg/mL in male patients and 5.98 +/-1.95 microg/mL in female patients. No significant differences in quinine concentration were observed between these two groups. All samples collected before starting treatment were negative for quinine. This information could help in the development of strategies for the rational use of antimalarial drugs in Brazil.

UI  - 19210165
TI  - In vivo selection of Plasmodium falciparum parasites carrying the chloroquine-susceptible pfcrt K76 allele after treatment with artemether-lumefantrine in Africa.
AB  - Our findings suggest that the pfcrt K76T mutation is a drug-specific contributor to enhanced P. falciparum susceptibility to lumefantrine in vivo and in vitro, and they highlight the benefit of using AL in areas affected by chloroquine-resistant P. falciparum malaria.

UI  - 19199542
TI  - Decreasing efficacy of antimalarial combination therapy in Uganda is explained by decreasing host immunity rather than increasing drug resistance.
AB  - Declining immunity in our study population appeared to be the primary factor underlying decreased efficacy of amodiaquine plus sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine. With improved malaria-control efforts, decreasing immunity may unmask resistance to partially efficacious drugs.

UI  - 19190213
TI  - Short report: comparison of chlorproguanil-dapsone with a combination of sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine and chloroquine in children with malaria in northcentral Nigeria.
AB  - Effective and affordable treatment of malaria is critical in the face of resistance of Plasmodium falciparum to chloroquine (CQ) and sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine (SP). We conducted a randomized controlled trial comparing the efficacy of chlorproguanil-dapsone (CD) with a combination SP plus CQ in children in Nigeria less than five years of age with malaria. Of 264 children enrolled, 122 (89.7%) and 118 (92.2%) completed the study in the SP + CQ and CD groups, respectively. By day 3, 96 (78.7%) and 94 (79.7%) had cleared their parasitemia (P = 0.79), and 107 (87.7%) and 109 (92.4%) were symptom free (P = 0.32) in the SP + CQ and CD groups, respectively. Adequate clinical and parasitologic response at day 14 occurred in 111 (94.1%; 95% confidence interval [CI] = 91.6-95.7%) in the CD group and 113 (92.6%; 95% CI = 89.9-94.3%) in the SP + CQ group (P = 0.85). SP + CQ and CD had similar antimalarial efficacy and still provide affordable treatment of uncomplicated malaria in northcentral Nigeria.

UI  - 19190211
TI  - Methemoglobinemia and adverse events in Plasmodium vivax malaria patients associated with high doses of primaquine treatment.
AB  - Primaquine (PQ) is recommended to prevent relapses in patients with Plasmodium vivax malaria infection. However, treatment with PQ causes methemoglobinemia. In this study, we measured the methemoglobin (MetHB) levels in three groups of subjects who received PQ treatment at 0.58, 0.83, or 1.17 mg/kg/d. A total of 112 subjects were studied. MetHB levels were detected at > or = 4% in 46-50% 1 day after PQ treatment in all three groups and 4-9% of subjects had MetHB levels > or = 4% 15 days after treatment. Only subjects receiving the highest doses of PQ had mild and brief adverse events, and 17% of them were associated with treatment. We conclude that when PQ is administered under certain conditions (i.e., normal glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase activity, in non-pregnant subjects and with a light meal), daily doses as high as 1.17 mg/kg do not represent a serious risk of high MetHB levels to patients.

UI  - 19187518
TI  - Cost-effectiveness of artesunate for the treatment of severe malaria.
AB  - This analysis confirms the vast superiority of artesunate for treatment of severe malaria from an economic as well as a clinical perspective.

UI  - 19176737
TI  - Treatment response to standard of care for severe anemia in pregnant women and effect of multivitamins and enhanced anthelminthics.
AB  - Iron deficiency was high in this population, and the standard-of-care treatment resulted in a treatment response of 50%, although better treatment adherence showed a higher response. Multivitamins and the enhanced mebendazole regimen had a modest benefit over and above the standard treatment.

UI  - 19157297
TI  - [Artesunate in interrupting the transmission of Plasmodium falciparum].
AB  - Oral administration of artesunate with a total dosage of 1000 mg in 6 days inhibits the infectivity of PFG.

UI  - 19128455
TI  - Artemisinin-based combinations versus amodiaquine plus sulphadoxine-pyrimethamine for the treatment of uncomplicated malaria in Faladje, Mali.
AB  - The combination of AQ+SP provides a potentially low cost alternative for treatment of uncomplicated P. falciparum infection in Mali and appears to have the added value of longer protective effect against new infection.

UI  - 19127975
TI  - Effect of removing direct payment for health care on utilisation and health outcomes in Ghanaian children: a randomised controlled trial.
AB  - In the study setting, removing out-of-pocket payments for health care had an impact on health care-seeking behaviour but not on the health outcomes measured.

UI  - 19114891
TI  - N-acetylcysteine as adjunctive treatment in severe malaria: a randomized, double-blinded placebo-controlled clinical trial.
AB  - Systemic oxidative stress is increased in severe malaria. Treatment with NAC had no effect on outcome in patients with severe falciparum malaria in this setting.

UI  - 19112496
TI  - High risk of severe anaemia after chlorproguanil-dapsone+artesunate antimalarial treatment in patients with G6PD (A-) deficiency.
AB  - CD+A showed a poor safety profile in individuals with G6PD deficiency most likely as a result of dapsone induced haemolysis. Screening for G6PD deficiency before drug administration of potentially pro-oxidants drugs, like dapsone-containing combinations, although seldom available, is necessary.

UI  - 19102746
TI  - A randomized, open-label, comparative efficacy trial of artemether-lumefantrine suspension versus artemether-lumefantrine tablets for treatment of uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in children in western Kenya.
AB  - The once daily three-dose of artemether-lumefantrine suspension (Co-artesiane(R)) was not superior to six-dose artemether-lumefantrine tablets (Coartem) for the treatment of uncomplicated malaria in children below five years of age in western Kenya.

UI  - 19099594
TI  - A randomized trial on effectiveness of artemether-lumefantrine versus artesunate plus amodiaquine for unsupervised treatment of uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in Ghanaian children.
AB  - Unobserved AL and ASAQ treatment showed high adequate clinical and parasitological responses, though AL was inferior in preventing late clinical failures.

UI  - 19098989
TI  - Seasonal intermittent preventive treatment for the prevention of anaemia and malaria in Ghanaian children: a randomized, placebo controlled trial.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00119132.

UI  - 19064625
TI  - Evidence of artemisinin-resistant malaria in western Cambodia.
AB  - 

UI  - 19064624
TI  - A trial of combination antimalarial therapies in children from Papua New Guinea.
AB  - The most effective regimens were artemether-lumefantrine against P. falciparum and dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine against P. vivax. The relatively high rate of treatment failure with dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine against P. falciparum may reflect cross-resistance between chloroquine and piperaquine. (Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry number, ACTRN12605000550606.)

UI  - 19062470
TI  - Acceptance of ACTs by patients in private healthcare facilities in Surulere, Lagos State.
AB  - Chloroquine has remained the first line in the management of malaria for over five decades. The avalanche of published research works and books on Chloroquine attests to its success and usefulness. Although, Chloroquine and Sulfadoxine / Pyrimethamine are readily available and inexpensive, P. falciparum parasites are resistant to these therapies in most parts of the tropics necessitating a switch in the antimalaria policy to Artemisinin-based combination therapies (ACTs). However, studies hitherto conducted revealed that the ACTs were not yet accepted by patients suffering from malaria and justified the position of the researchers to determine if the situation had changed. 15 health facilities including private clinics and community pharmacies were used as target locations. Pretested questionnaires were administered on 30 randomly selected patients (2 per facility). A recovery rate of 100% was recorded. Most of the respondents were female. Majority of them were aged between 20-24 years. Most of the respondents could accurately interpret ACTs and many of them knew the ACT drugs in addition to other antimalaria drugs such as chloroquine and sulphadoxine plus pyrimethamine. Many of the respondents have used ACTs before. Though a definite preference for sulphadoxine plus pyrimethamine is still observed, majority of the respondents chose ACTs as their second line. Very few of the respondents indicated using chloroquine for their last malaria episode. From the results, the level of acceptance of ACTs and other Artemisinin products is high (50%) probably because more information is available on ACTs to both healthcare personnel and patients through mass media like television, radio, newspapers. It can be concluded that there is better acceptance of Artemisinin products (26.67% for ACTs, 23.33% for Artemisinin monotherapy) by patients though results still show a relative preference for sulphadoxine plus pyrimethamine (40%) probably because of the ease of the use (single dose administration) and cost. Information on adherence to therapy with ACTs must be sustained to prevent rapid emergence of resistance species to ACTs.

UI  - 19059639
TI  - Pre-referral rectal artesunate to prevent death and disability in severe malaria: a placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - UNICEF/UNDP/World Bank Special Programme for Research and Training in Tropical Diseases (WHO/TDR); WHO Global Malaria Programme (WHO/GMP); Sall Family Foundation; the European Union (QLRT-2000-01430); the UK Medical Research Council; USAID; Irish Aid; the Karolinska Institute; and the University of Oxford Clinical Trial Service Unit (CTSU).

UI  - 19055622
TI  - dhfr and dhps genotype and sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine treatment failure in children with falciparum malaria in the Democratic Republic of Congo.
AB  - Dhps-437 and dhps-540 are strongly associated with SP treatment failure and should be evaluated further as a method for surveillance of SP-based therapy in DRC.

UI  - 19038036
TI  - Evaluation of the efficacy and safety of artemether-lumefantrine in the treatment of acute uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in Nigerian infants and children.
AB  - NCT00709969.

UI  - 19031076
TI  - Effects of chloroquine treatment on circulating erythropoietin and inflammatory cytokines in acute Plasmodium falciparum malaria.
AB  - Anemia is a common and serious complication of malaria due to Plasmodium falciparum infection, a major health problem in tropical areas. Herein, the relation was investigated between the levels of circulating erythropoietin (EPO) and immunomodulatory cytokines in response to chloroquine treatment. Thirty-seven healthy control subjects and 40 patients with acute P. falciparum infection were included in the study. All subjects were adult male Sudanese. Blood samples were collected before chloroquine administration (25 mg/kg body weight, orally on three consecutive days) and 3 and 30 days after start of the therapy. Measurements included routine hematological parameters and the concentrations of immunoreactive EPO, tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), interleukin 1alpha (IL-1), IL-6, and interferon gamma (INF-gamma). Chloroquine treatment led to a decrease in EPO levels in the control subjects but an increase in malaria patients at day 30. The latter was likely due to the anti-inflammatory action of the drug because INF-gamma, IL-1, and IL-6 concentrations declined on chloroquine treatment. Based on these findings, we propose that an impaired EPO production in association with a prolonged elevation of certain inflammatory cytokines can contribute to the anemia in some malaria patients which can be reversed by chloroquine therapy.

UI  - 19024339
TI  - Biological and haematological safety profile of oral amodiaquine and chloroquine in healthy volunteers with or without Plasmodium falciparum infection in northeast Tanzania.
AB  - Amodiaquine (AQ), an effective antimalarial drug for uncomplicated malaria, has been greatly restricted after cases of life-threatening agranulocytosis and hepatic toxicity during prophylactic use. We conducted a hospital based open-label randomised clinical trial in 40 indigenous semi-immune healthy adult male volunteers with and without malaria parasites. The objective was to collect data on biological and haematological safety, tolerability, and parasitological efficacy to serve as baseline in the evaluation of the effectiveness of AQ preventive intermittent treatment against malaria morbidity in infants. Volunteers were stratified according to parasitaemia status and randomly assigned 20 participants each arm to three days treatment with either AQ or chloroquine (CQ). The level of difference of selected haematological and hepatological values pre-and post-trial were marginal and within the normal limits. Clinical adverse effects mostly mild and transient were noticed in 33.3% CQ treated-aparasitaemic, 23.8% of CQ treated-parasitaemic, 28.6% ofAQ-treated parasitaemic and 14.3% of aparasitaemic receiving AQ. Amodiaquine attained 100% parasitological clearance rate versus 70% in CQ-treated volunteers. The findings indicate that there was no agranulocytosis or hepatic toxicity suggesting that AQ may pose no public health risk in its wide therapeutic dosage uses. Larger studies are needed to exclude rare adverse effects.

UI  - 19021893
TI  - Dosing accuracy of artesunate and amodiaquine as treatment for falciparum malaria in Casamance, Senegal.
AB  - Artesunate is easier to dose than AQ. Currently available age-dosed, co-blistered AS + AQ tends to overdose AQ and is less well tolerated than loose tablets. It is not the optimal presentation of AS + AQ.

UI  - 19017387
TI  - A randomized trial to monitor the efficacy and effectiveness by QT-NASBA of artemether-lumefantrine versus dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine for treatment and transmission control of uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in western Kenya.
AB  - Current controlled trials ISRCTN36463274.

UI  - 18992209
TI  - Effects of amodiaquine, artesunate, and artesunate-amodiaquine on Plasmodium falciparum malaria-associated anaemia in children.
AB  - The effects of amodiaquine, artesunate and artesunate-amodiaquine on Plasmodium falciparum malaria-associated anaemia (PfMAA) and the recovery from PfMAA were evaluated in 328 children with uncomplicated malaria randomized to the standard dose regimens of the three drug treatments. Overall, malaria-attributable fall in haematocrit (MAFH) before treatment was 4.8+/-2.8%, 95% confidence interval (CI) 4.4-5.2%, and was not significantly different between the treatment groups (P=0.31). An age <5 years and a history of illness >3d were independent predictors of MAFH before treatment >4%. Following treatment, drug-attributable fall in haematocrit (DAFH) was significantly higher in amodiaquine-treated children (4.6+/-2.9%, 2.8+/-1.8%, 3.0+/-1.8% for amodiaquine, artesunate, artesunate-amodiaquine, respectively, P<0.0001). The rate of DAFH was significantly lower in artesunate-treated children (1.4+/-0.9%, 0.7+/-0.6%, 1.0+/-0.6% per day for amodiaquine, artesunate and artesunate-amodiaquine, respectively, P<0.0001). The rate of rise in haematocrit from the nadir on days 3-7 was significantly higher in amodiaquine treated children (P=0.045). In anaemic children (n=68), the time elapsing from treatment to the attainment of a haematocrit > or =30%, the anaemia resolution time, and the proportion of anaemic children with complete resolution on day 14 were similar in all treatment groups (P=0.17 and 0.65, respectively). Artemisinin drugs may reduce the extent and rate of fall in PfMAA during treatment and may attenuate malaria-associated anaemia in children.

UI  - 18981499
TI  - A randomized trial of artesunate-mefloquine versus artemether-lumefantrine for treatment of uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in Mali.
AB  - The choice of appropriate artemisin-based combination therapy depends on several factors (cost, efficacy, safety, reinfection rate, and simplicity of administration). In this study, we tested the hypothesis that artesunate-mefloquine (Artequin) is as efficacious as artemether-lumefantrine (Coartem) in treatment of uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria. The study was carried out from August 2004 through February 2005 in Kambila, Mali. Subjects with weights >/= 10 kg and uncomplicated malaria were enrolled. Artesunate-mefloquine was given once a day for three days and artemether/lumefantrine twice a day for three days. A total of 470 (235 in each arm) patients were enrolled. The unadjusted 28-day cure rate was higher in artesunate-mefloquine arm than in the artemether-lumefantrine arm (79.7% versus 67.8%; P < 0.004). After correction for reinfection, the 28-day cure rates were similar in the two groups (96.04% versus 96.93%). Artesunate-mefloquine is well-tolerated and is as effective as artemether-lumefantrine for the treatment of P. falciparum malaria. Artesunate-mefloquine also prevented more new infections.

UI  - 18976584
TI  - Severe malaria and artesunate treatment, Norway.
AB  - 

UI  - 18956816
TI  - [Malaria in health centres in the southern districts of Brazzaville, Congo].
AB  - During the surveys on antimalarial drug efficacy carried out from 2003 to 2006, we systematically checked the presence of Plasmodium falciparum in patients consulting in two health centres located in the south of Brazzaville. The first centre is situated in the urban zone; the second, in the semi rural area. The objective of this survey was to determine the prevalence of malaria-infected patients among the consulting patients and the prevalence of symptomatic patients with acute malaria attacks based on the parasitic density. Patients with parasites were assigned to one of the 5 following classifications: <2000, > or =2000, <5000, > or =5000 and > or =10,000 asexual parasites/microl of blood. Based on the threshold of parasite density 10,000 asexual parasites/microl, 10% and 24% of febrile patients in Tenrikyo and Madibou health centres were diagnosed as cases of malaria, respectively; 13.6% and 26.8% of patients under 5 years old consulting in these two health centres had malaria attacks. If the threshold of parasite density is lowered to 2000 asexual parasites/microl for patients > or =15 years old, 8% and 14% of adults in Tenrikyo and Madibou had malaria attacks, respectively The malaria burden was higher in the periphery of the city of Brazzaville than in the urbanized central districts. The Madibou health centre located in semi rural zone receives twice as many malaria cases for consultation than Tenrikyo located in the urban zone.

UI  - 18926569
TI  - Efficacy and safety of artemether-lumefantrine dispersible tablets compared with crushed commercial tablets in African infants and children with uncomplicated malaria: a randomised, single-blind, multicentre trial.
AB  - A six-dose regimen of artemether-lumefantrine with the new dispersible formulation is as efficacious as the currently used crushed tablet in infants and children, and has a similar safety profile.

UI  - 18838585
TI  - Pharmacokinetics of L-arginine in adults with moderately severe malaria.
AB  - Severe malaria is associated with decreased nitric oxide (NO) production and low plasma concentrations of L-arginine, the substrate for NO synthase. Supplementation with L-arginine has the potential to improve NO bioavailability and outcomes. We developed a pharmacokinetic model for L-arginine in moderately severe malaria to explore the concentration-time profile and identify important covariates. In doses of 3, 6, or 12 g,L-arginine was infused over 30 min to 30 adults with moderately severe malaria, and plasma concentrations were measured at 8 to 11 time points. Patients who had not received L-arginine were also assessed and included in the model. The data were analyzed using a population approach with NONMEM software. A two-compartment linear model with first-order elimination best described the data, with a clearance of 44 liters/h (coefficient of variation [CV] = 52%) and a volume of distribution of 24 liters (CV = 19%). The natural time course of L-arginine recovery was described empirically by a second-order polynomial with a time to half recovery of 26 h. The half-life of exogenous L-arginine was reduced in patients with malaria compared with that for healthy adults. Weight and ethnicity were significant covariates for clearance. MATLAB simulations of dosing schedules for use in future studies predicted that 12 g given over 6, 8, or 12 h will provide concentrations above the K(m) of endothelial cell CAT-1 transporters in 90%, 75%, and 60% of patients, respectively.

UI  - 18831737
TI  - Impact of training in clinical and microscopy diagnosis of childhood malaria on antimalarial drug prescription and health outcome at primary health care level in Tanzania: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - This study is registered at Clinicaltrials.gov with the identifier NCT00687895.

UI  - 18831691
TI  - Plasma folate level and high-dose folate supplementation predict sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine treatment failure in pregnant women in Western kenya who have uncomplicated malaria.
AB  - http://www.clinicaltrials.gov identifier: NCT00130065.

UI  - 18828899
TI  - Therapeutic and prophylactic effect of intermittent preventive anti-malarial treatment in infants (IPTi) from Ghana and Gabon.
AB  - Data analysis from clinical trials NCT ID # 00206739 (Kumasi Trial) and NCT ID # 00167843 (Lambarn Trial), http://www.clinicaltrials.gov.

UI  - 18817597
TI  - A randomized, comparative study of supervised and unsupervised artesunate-amodiaquine, for the treatment of uncomplicated malaria in Ghana.
AB  - Although the use of artesunate-amodiaquine treatment is growing in Africa, data on its effectiveness are limited. In only the second published comparison of supervised and unsupervised treatments with this combination, Ghanaian children with uncomplicated malaria have recently been investigated in an open-label, randomized, comparative study. Children aged 6-120 months attending the Navrongo War Memorial hospital between November 2005 and December 2006 were enrolled if they had uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria and at least one of their parents/guardians gave their informed consent. Overall, 638 patients were screened, 357 were found to have P. falciparum infection, and 308 of these satisfied the other selection criteria and were enrolled. The subjects were divided randomly into two treatment arms. All the children were scheduled to receive 10 mg amodiaquine/kg and 4 mg artesunate/kg daily for 3 days but only 154 (the 'supervised') were given all their treatments in hospital, with each dose directly observed. Although the other 154 children (the 'unsupervised') were given their first dose in hospital, under supervision, they were then sent home with the tablets they required to complete treatment. Study participation lasted for 28 days, with follow-up on days 3, 7, 14, 21 and 28. During follow-up, axillary temperatures, any emergent signs and symptoms, and concomitant drug consumption were recorded and haemoglobin concentrations and malarial parasitaemias and gametocytaemias were measured. All but seven of the 308 subjects completed the study. At enrolment the subjects had a mean age of 45.0 months, a mean weight of 14.8 kg, a mean axillary temperature of 37.9 degrees C and a geometric mean parasitaemia of 11,367 asexual stages/microl. About 55% of the children investigated were girls. There were no significant baseline difference between the two treatment arms. Although there was also no difference in the clearance of fever and parasitaemia between the two arms by day 14, a supervised child was significantly more likely to show an adequate clinical and parasitological response, by day 21 (91.3% v. 84.1%; P= 0.05) or day 28 (80.0% v. 64.9%; P<0.01), than an unsupervised child. The reported adverse effects following treatment and the trend in haemoglobin recovery were, however, similar in the two arms. Although artesunate-amodiaquine appeared very effective in the treatment of uncomplicated P. falciparum malaria in children, whether supervised or not, it appears that supervised treatment provided stronger prevention against re-infection and recrudescence. At least in the present study, treatment at home, without medical supervision, probably led to relatively poor compliance.

UI  - 18796142
TI  - Ototoxicity of artemether/lumefantrine in the treatment of falciparum malaria: a randomized trial.
AB  - There was no detrimental effect of a standard oral regimen of artemether/lumefantrine on peripheral hearing or brainstem auditory pathways in patients with uncomplicated falciparum malaria. In contrast, transient hearing loss is common after quinine therapy and due to temporary outer hair cell dysfunction.

UI  - 18782445
TI  - Efficacy, safety and tolerability of artesunate-mefloquine in the treatment of uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in four geographic zones of Nigeria.
AB  - This co-packaged formulation of artesunate + mefloquine (Artequin) is highly efficacious, safe and well-tolerated. It is recommended for the treatment of uncomplicated P. falciparum malaria in Nigeria.

UI  - 18779360
TI  - Effect of concomitant artesunate administration and cytochrome P4502C8 polymorphisms on the pharmacokinetics of amodiaquine in Ghanaian children with uncomplicated malaria.
AB  - Artesunate (AS) is used in combination with amodiaquine (AQ) as first-line treatment for uncomplicated malaria in many countries. We investigated the effect of concomitant AS administration on the pharmacokinetics of AQ and compared concentrations of desethylamodiaquine (DEAQ), the main metabolite of AQ, in plasma between patients with different variants of the cytochrome P4502C8 (CYP2C8) gene. A two-compartment model was fitted to 169 plasma DEAQ concentrations from 103 Ghanaian children aged 1 to 14 years with uncomplicated malaria treated either with AQ alone (n = 15) or with AS plus AQ (n = 88). The population clearance of DEAQ appeared to increase nonlinearly with body weight, and the central volume of distribution of DEAQ was higher (P < 0.001) in the AS-plus-AQ group than in the AQ-only group. The maximum plasma DEAQ concentration was higher (P < 0.001), and the population distribution half-life was shorter (P < 0.01), in the AQ-only group than in the AS-plus-AQ group. The total areas under the plasma DEAQ concentration-time curves (P = 0.68) and elimination half-lives (P = 0.39) were similar for the two groups. There was a high frequency (0.179) of the non-wild-type allele of CYP2C8, but no differences between CYP2C8 genotypes with regard to AQ efficacy or safety were evident. The sample size, however, was limited, so monitoring of AQ toxicity in the study area is still indicated. The nonlinear clearance of DEAQ and the wide variability in kinetic parameters have safety implications for weight-based dosing of higher-body-weight children with AQ. The pharmacokinetics of artemisinin combination therapies should be studied in malaria patients, because the rapid parasite clearance caused by the artemisinin may affect the kinetics of the partner drug and the combination.

UI  - 18764815
TI  - Effect of iron or multiple micronutrient supplements on the prevalence of anaemia among anaemic young children of a malaria-endemic area: a randomized double-blind trial.
AB  - In this malaria-endemic area, in combination with malaria management, the MM supplement was more efficacious than the Fe supplement and the IZ supplement for reducing anaemia. Further investigation into limiting factors and amounts of micronutrients that would be more efficacious for reducing anaemia is recommended.

UI  - 18762306
TI  - Randomised controlled clinical trial of strychnos myrtoides extract for reversal of chloroquine resistance. (Comment on: Potential antimalarial activity of indole alkaloids).
AB  - 

UI  - 18752443
TI  - A randomized, controlled trial of intermittent preventive treatment with sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine, amodiaquine, or the combination in pregnant women in Ghana.
AB  - Clinicaltrials.gov identifier: NCT00146783 .

UI  - 18719722
TI  - [Gametocytemia in falciparum malaria treated with amodiaquine or artesunate].
AB  - The three treatment schemes were similar in their therapeutic efficacy and in their incapacity to eliminate gametocytes at day seven.

UI  - 18718621
TI  - Predictors of antimalarial treatment failure in an area of unstable malaria transmission in eastern Sudan.
AB  - The factors that identify patients at risk of malaria treatment failure were evaluated in an area of unstable malaria transmission in eastern Sudan. We analyzed data from 471 patients who had been enrolled in six previous clinical antimalarial trials for uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria. Thirty-four (7.3%) had treatment failure (crude). In logistic regression models, an age of < or =5 years (odds ratio [OR]=3.7; 95% CI 1.5-8.6; P=0.002) and parasitaemia that took 3 days to clear (OR=2.4; 95% CI 1.0-5.9; P=0.04) were found to be predictors for treatment failure. Presenting temperature (OR=1.4; 95% CI 0.9-2.2; P=0.1), level of parasitaemia (OR=1.0; 95% CI 1.0-1.0; P=0.8) and presence of gametocytes (OR=0.3; 95% CI 0.9-1.2; P=0.1) were not associated with treatment failure. Thus, these factors might be used to identify those in whom treatment might fail in the future.

UI  - 18662297
TI  - Pharmacokinetics and clinical efficacy of midazolam in children with severe malaria and convulsions.
AB  - Administration of MDZ at the currently recommended dose resulted in rapid achievement of therapeutic MDZ concentrations. Although IM and buccal administration of MDZ may be more practical in peripheral healthcare facilities, the efficacy appears to be poorer at the dose used, and a different dosage regimen might improve the efficacy.

UI  - 18651857
TI  - Mother-to-child transmission of HIV-1: association with malaria prevention, anaemia and placental malaria.
AB  - IPTp with SP was not associated with a significant impact on MTCT of HIV. Maternal anaemia was an independent risk factor for MTCT.

UI  - 18645670
TI  - [Efficacy of the amodiaquine+sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine combination and of chloroquine for the treatment of malaria in Crdoba, Colombia, 2006].
AB  - In Cordoba, the amodiaquine+sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine combination and chloroquine show a high efficacy for the treatment of uncomplicated falciparum and vivax malaria, respectively.

UI  - 18637586
TI  - [Efficacy of dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine and artemether-lumefantrine in the treatment of uncomplicated falciparum malaria in Hainan, China].
AB  - Both combinations artemether-lumefantrine and dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine show a high cure rate and proper tolerability among the patients with uncomplicated falciparum malaria in Hainan.

UI  - 18631313
TI  - The importance of context in malaria diagnosis and treatment decisions - a quantitative analysis of observed clinical encounters in Tanzania.
AB  - Non-clinical factors are important in the overdiagnosis of malaria. Strategies to target antimalarials and antibiotics better need to use methods that address the context of clinical decision making in addition to the dissemination of conventional clinical algorithms.

UI  - 18620577
TI  - Amodiaquine-artesunate vs artemether-lumefantrine for uncomplicated malaria in Ghanaian children: a randomized efficacy and safety trial with one year follow-up.
AB  - NCT 00406146 http://www.clinicaltrials.gov.

UI  - 18613536
TI  - Dose ranging studies of new artemisinin-piperaquine fixed combinations compared to standard regimens of artemisisnin combination therapies for acute uncomplicated falciparum malaria.
AB  - To determine the optimum dose of artemisinin-piperaquine combination therapies for acute uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria, we examined 7 candidate regimens in 411 patients admitted to the Bangkok Hospital for Tropical Diseases. The studies were performed from May 2005 to October 2005 and November 2005 to June 2006. We compared 3-day courses of artesunate-mefloquine, artemether-lumefantrine (Coartem) and of dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine (Artekin) as reference antimalarial treatments, with candidate regimens using 2-3 day courses of artemisinin-piperaquine, Artequick. Initially, patients receiving each of the regimens had a rapid clinical and parasitological response. All treatments were well tolerated and no serious adverse effects occurred. The 28-day cure rates were < 80% for the 2-day treatments with artemisinin-piperaquine at 2.4 mg/kg and 14.4 mg/kg, respectively, in the first study period and artemisinin-piperaquine at 3.2 mg/kg and 16.0 mg/kg, respectively, but > 98% for the 3-day regimens. These results suggest that a 3-day course of artemisinin-piperaquine at 3.2 mg/kg and 16.0 mg/kg, respectively, deserve further evaluation as an alternative treatment for multidrug-resistant P. falciparum malaria.

UI  - 18606428
TI  - Adherence and efficacy of supervised versus non-supervised treatment with artemether/lumefantrine for the treatment of uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in Bangladesh: a randomised controlled trial.
AB  - As artemether/lumefantrine is now deployed as the first-line treatment for uncomplicated falciparum malaria in Bangladesh, information on its efficacy and adherence to its use is important. A randomised controlled non-inferiority trial comparing directly observed treatment (DOT) and non-directly observed treatment (NDOT) was conducted in 320 patients with uncomplicated falciparum malaria in Bandarban Hill Tract District, Bangladesh. Both regimens showed similar high levels of PCR-corrected 42-day parasitological and clinical cure rates (99.3% in the NDOT group and 100% in the DOT group; P=0.49). Survival analysis for the time to recurrence of infection showed no difference between treatment groups (log rank, P=0.98). Adherence, as assessed by counting remaining tablets and oral interviews, was 93% in the NDOT group and was confirmed by Day 7 lumefantrine concentrations. Adherence was independent of educational level. Patients with plasma lumefantrine concentrations < 280 ng/ml at Day 7 were at greater risk for re-infection (relative risk 5.62; P=0.027). The efficacy of artemether/lumefantrine for the treatment of uncomplicated falciparum malaria in Bangladesh is high and is similar for DOT and NDOT. Adherence to therapy is high.

UI  - 18603111
TI  - Adherence and effectiveness of drug combination in curative treatment among children suffering uncomplicated malaria in rural Senegal.
AB  - Increased Plasmodium falciparum resistance to chloroquine has prompted national malaria programs to develop new policies in several African countries. Less than a year after the introduction of amodiaquine/sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine (AQ/SP) as first-line treatment in Senegal, we examined adherence rates to therapy and its efficacy among children. The study was conducted in five dispensaries in rural Senegal. Children aged 2-10 years with a presumptive diagnosis of malaria were prescribed AQ/SP. Thick blood film analyses were carried out on days 0, 3, 7, 14 and 28. Blood and urine samples were collected on day 3 for drug level measurements. The principal caregivers were questioned on treatment adherence. Among the 289 recruited children, 144 had a parasitemia >2500/microl. The results demonstrated markedly good efficacy for the treatment, as no detectable parasitemia was observed on day 28 for 97.9% of the children. However, we noticed that 35.3% of children did not comply with the recommended doses and 62.3% did not exactly adhere to the drug schedule. Despite the good efficacy of the drugs, adherence to the therapeutic scheme was poor. Strategies to promote patient adherence would improve drug performance and thus might help to prevent the rapid emergence of drug resistance.

UI  - 18575626
TI  - An open label, randomised trial of artesunate+amodiaquine, artesunate+chlorproguanil-dapsone and artemether-lumefantrine for the treatment of uncomplicated malaria.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00119145.

UI  - 18575480
TI  - The use of artemisinin-based combination therapies (ACTs) in public secondary health facilities in Lagos, Nigeria.
AB  - Despite the national policy change from Chloroquine to (ACTs) as the first line antimalarial, their use in the public secondary health facilities in Lagos State does not reflect this policy change and it appears that Chloroquine still remains the choice antimalarial drug.

UI  - 18574653
TI  - Effects of artesunate-cotrimoxazole and amodiaquine-artesunate against asexual and sexual stages of Plasmodium falciparum malaria in Nigerian children.
AB  - The activities of artesunate-cotrimoxazole and artesunate-amodiaquine combinations against asexual-and sexual-stage parasites were evaluated in 182 Nigerian children with uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria. One hundred and twenty-one children received artesunate-cotrimoxazole and 61 received artesunate-amodiaquine and all were followed up for 28 days. Clinical recovery from illness occurred in all children. There was no significant difference in fever clearance time (P = 0.35). Both treatment groups achieved a parasite clearance time of less than 2 days (1.84 +/- 0.66 days and 1.31 +/- 0.48 days); gametocyte carriage rates were comparable in the two treatment groups prior to and following treatment; both treatments appeared to reduce gametocyte carriage. The pretreatment gametocyte sex ratio, which was female-biased, was maintained throughout the period of follow up in both treatment groups. Reduction of gametocyte carriage by these two treatment regimens may reduce transmissibility in P. falciparum malaria, and this reduction is presumed to be related to the accelerated clearance of the asexual forms of the parasite.

UI  - 18574319
TI  - Pharmacokinetics of a five-day oral dihydroartemisinin monotherapy regimen in patients with uncomplicated falciparum malaria.
AB  - The pharmacokinetics of dihydroartemisinin (DHA) in a 5-day oral monotherapy regimen was investigated in ten adult Vietnamese patients with uncomplicated falciparum malaria. The patients were treated with a total dose of 900 mg DHA divided as single daily doses of 300, 300, 100, 100, and 100 mg from day 0 through day 4. There were no differences in the concentrations of DHA within the first two days of treatment. The pharmacokinetics of DHA in the acute phase, however, was significantly different from that in the convalescent phase of malaria. Reduced half-life (T(1/2z)) and lower area under concentration curve (AUC(infinity)) values were observed on the final day of treatment in comparison to those obtained on the first day. These decreases in T(1/2z) and AUC(infinity) were observed in concordance with increased drug clearance (CL/F). Furthermore, the time required to reach maximum plasma DHA concentration (T(max)) on day 4 was shorter than that on day 0. Together, these findings suggest that the change in pharmacokinetics of DHA is related to the physiological change in malaria patients between the acute and convalescent phases of the disease.

UI  - 18567436
TI  - Efficacy of Artequick versus artesunate-mefloquine in the treatment of acute uncomplicated falciparum malaria in Thailand.
AB  - To determine the efficacy, safety and tolerability of an alternative short-course, artemisinin-based combination therapy for acute uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria, we compared Artequick--a fixed-dosed combination of artemisinin (80 mg), piperaquine (400 mg), and primaquine (4 mg), per tablet--with a standard regimen of artesunate-mefloquine. A total of 130 patients were randomly assigned to treatment with an orally administered, once-daily, 3-day regimen of either Artequick (Group A: 3.2 mg/Kg/day of artemisinin, 16 mg/Kg/day of piperaquine, and 0.16 mg/Kg/day of primaquine) or artesunate-mefloquine (Group B: artesunate, 4 mg/Kg/day, with mefloquine, 8 mg/Kg/day). Patients receiving each regimen had a rapid clinical and parasitological response. All treatments were well tolerated, and no serious adverse effects occurred. No significant differences were found in fever- and parasite-clearance times between the two study groups. The 28-day cure rates were similarly high, at 98.5% and 100%, in groups A and B, respectively. We conclude that Artequick was as effective and well tolerated as artesunate-mefloquine and could be used as an alternative treatment for multidrug-resistant Plasmodium falciparum malaria in Southeast Asia.

UI  - 18560227
TI  - Activities of artemether-lumefantrine and amodiaquine-sulfalene-pyrimethamine against sexual-stage parasites in falciparum malaria in children.
AB  - The activities of artemether-lumefantrine and amodiaquine-sulfalene-pyrimethamine against sexual-stage parasites were evaluated in 42 of 181 Nigerian children with uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria who had gametocytaemia before, during or after treatment with the two combination therapies. The children were randomized to the standard dose regimens. Clinical recovery from illness occurred in all children who carried gametocytes. Gametocytaemia was detected in 20 patients (11%) before treatment and in another 22 patients (12.2%) after treatment. Gametocyte carriage rates were similar in both combination treatment groups, but the area under the curve of gametocytaemia plotted against time was 8-fold higher in the amodiaquine-sulfalene-pyrimethamine-treated than in the artemether-lumefantrine-treated children. The pretreatment gametocyte sex ratio was female biased in both treatment groups. During follow-up, there was a short-lived but significant increase in the gametocyte sex ratio in children treated with amodiaquine-sulfalene-pyrimethamine but not in those treated with artemether-lumefantrine. These results indicate that both combination therapies had moderate effects on gametocyte carriage, but artemether-lumefantrine may be more potent at reducing transmissibility in P. falciparum malaria by exerting greater effects on post-treatment gametocyte density and gametocyte sex ratio.

UI  - 18552540
TI  - Gametocyte clearance in uncomplicated and severe Plasmodium falciparum malaria after artesunate-mefloquine treatment in Thailand.
AB  - Artemisinin-based combination therapy (ACT) is currently promoted as a strategy for treating both uncomplicated and severe falciparum malaria, targeting asexual blood-stage Plasmodium falciparum parasites. However, the effect of ACT on sexual-stage parasites remains controversial. To determine the clearance of sexual-stage P. falciparum parasites from 342 uncomplicated, and 217 severe, adult malaria cases, we reviewed and followed peripheral blood sexual-stage parasites for 4 wk after starting ACT. All patients presented with both asexual and sexual stage parasites on admission, and were treated with artesunate-mefloquine as the standard regimen. The results showed that all patients were asymptomatic and negative for asexual forms before discharge from hospital. The percentages of uncomplicated malaria patients positive for gametocytes on days 3, 7, 14, 21, and 28 were 41.5, 13.1, 3.8, 2.0, and 2.0%, while the percentages of gametocyte positive severe malaria patients on days 3, 7, 14, 21, and 28 were 33.6, 8.2, 2.7, 0.9, and 0.9%, respectively. Although all patients were negative for asexual parasites by day 7 after completion of the artesunate-mefloquine course, gametocytemia persisted in some patients. Thus, a gametocytocidal drug, e.g., primaquine, may be useful in combination with an artesunate-mefloquine regimen to clear gametocytes, so blocking transmission more effectively than artesunate alone, in malaria transmission areas.

UI  - 18547415
TI  - Safety and tolerability of combination antimalarial therapies for uncomplicated falciparum malaria in Ugandan children.
AB  - Current Controlled Trials Identifier ISRCTN37517549.

UI  - 18545692
TI  - Artemether-lumefantrine versus dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine for treating uncomplicated malaria: a randomized trial to guide policy in Uganda.
AB  - Controlled-Trials.com ISRCTN75606663.

UI  - 18541764
TI  - Modeling the financial and clinical implications of malaria rapid diagnostic tests in the case-management of older children and adults in Kenya.
AB  - Using data on clinical practices for outpatients 5 years and older, test accuracy, and malaria prevalence, we model financial and clinical implications of malaria rapid diagnostic tests (RDTs) under the new artemether-lumefantrine (AL) treatment policy in one high and one low malaria prevalence district in Kenya. In the high transmission district, RDTs as actually used would improve malaria treatment (61% less over-treatment but 8% more under-treatment) and lower costs (21% less). Nonetheless, the majority of patients with malaria would not be correctly treated with AL. In the low transmission district, especially because the treatment policy was new and AL was not widely used, RDTs as actually used would yield a minor reduction in under-treatment errors (36% less but the base is small) with 41% higher costs. In both districts, adherence to revised clinical practices with RDTs has the potential to further decrease treatment errors with acceptable costs.

UI  - 18541280
TI  - The efficacy and tolerability of three different regimens of tafenoquine versus primaquine for post-exposure prophylaxis of Plasmodium vivax malaria in the Southwest Pacific.
AB  - Tafenoquine is being developed for radical cure and post-exposure prophylaxis of Plasmodium vivax malaria. In an open-label study, 1512 Australian Defence Force personnel received one of three tafenoquine 3 d regimens [400 mg once daily (od), 200 mg twice daily (bid), 200 mg od] or daily primaquine (22.5 mg) plus doxycycline (100 mg) over 14 d in Bougainville and in Timor-Leste for post-exposure prophylaxis. The relapse rate of subjects treated in Bougainville with tafenoquine (n=173) was 1.2% (200 mg bid x 3 d) and 2.3% (400 mg od x 3 d), while primaquine plus doxycycline (n=175) was 3.4%. For subjects treated in Timor-Leste with tafenoquine (n=636), the relapse rate was 4.9% (200 mg od x 3 d), 5.3% (200 mg bid x 3 d) and 11.0% (400 mg od x 3d), while primaquine plus doxycycline (n=289) was 10.0%. The most frequent adverse events reported across all groups were nausea, abdominal distress and diarrhoea. There was a dose-dependent reduction in adverse events with a reduced dose of tafenoquine, with the lowest dose (total 600 mg over 3 d) producing rates of adverse events equivalent to that of primaquine plus doxycycline. The much shorter dosing regimen of tafenoquine should increase compliance, which is often suboptimal with primaquine after leaving an endemic area. [Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry Number 12607000588493].

UI  - 18510819
TI  - Taste-masked quinine sulphate pellets: bio-availability in adults and steady-state plasma concentrations in children with uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria.
AB  - QS taste-masked pellets offered the possibility to easily adjust the dose to the bodyweight of the child and can be used as an alternative to dividing tablets.

UI  - 18503714
TI  - Antipyretic effect of ibuprofen in Gabonese children with uncomplicated falciparum malaria: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - The trial registration number is: NCT00167713.

UI  - 18482078
TI  - Effects of revised diagnostic recommendations on malaria treatment practices across age groups in Kenya.
AB  - Despite different recommendations for patients below and above 5 years of age, malaria diagnosis and treatment practices were similar in the two age groups. Parasitological diagnosis was under-used in older children and adults, and young children were still tested. Use of AL was low overall and alternative antimalarials were commonly prescribed; but AL prescribing largely followed the results of malaria tests. Malaria diagnosis recommendations differing between age groups appear complex to implement; further strengthening of diagnosis and treatment practices under AL policy is required.

UI  - 18458306
TI  - High-dose primaquine regimens against relapse of Plasmodium vivax malaria.
AB  - Plasmodium vivax causes debilitating but usually non-lethal malaria in most of Asia and South America. Prevention of relapse after otherwise effective therapy for the acute attack requires a standard daily dose of primaquine administered over 14 days. This regimen has < 90% efficacy in Thailand, and is widely regarded as ineffective because of poor compliance over the relatively long duration of dosing. We evaluated the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of alternative primaquine dosing regimens combined with artesunate among 399 Thai patients with acute, symptomatic P. vivax malaria. Patients were randomly assigned to one of six treatment groups: all patients received artesunate, 100 mg once a day for 5 days. Groups 1-5 then received primaquine, 30 mg a day for 5, 7, 9, 11, and 14 days, respectively. Group 6 received primaquine, 30 mg twice a day for 7 days. The 28-day cure rates were 85%, 89%, 94%, 100%, and 96%, respectively. Treatment of P. vivax malaria with artesunate for 5 days followed by high-dose primaquine, 30 mg twice a day for 7 days, was highly effective, well-tolerated, and equivalent or superior to the standard regimen of primaquine therapy.

UI  - 18453510
TI  - Herba Artemisiae annuae tea preparation compared to sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine in the treatment of uncomplicated falciparum malaria in adults: a randomized double-blind clinical trial.
AB  - Tea preparations from the herb Artemisia annua L. (Aa) which is used in traditional Chinese medicine might offer an inexpensive way of producing artemisinin drugs locally. We compared Aa with sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine (SP) in the treatment of uncomplicated falciparum malaria in semi-immune adults. After seven days, the cure rate was 7/10 for the Aa compared to 7/9 for SP; this dropped to 4/10 for Aa and 4/9 for SP at day 14 and to 1/9 for Aa and 3/8 for SP at day 28.

UI  - 18444813
TI  - High risk of neutropenia in HIV-infected children following treatment with artesunate plus amodiaquine for uncomplicated malaria in Uganda.
AB  - Artesunate plus amodiaquine was highly efficacious for malaria treatment in HIV-infected children but was associated with a high risk of neutropenia, especially in the context of concurrent antiretroviral use. Our findings highlight an urgent need for evaluation of alternative antimalarial therapies for HIV-infected individuals.

UI  - 18419816
TI  - Efficacy of amodiaquine in the treatment of uncomplicated falciparum malaria in young children of rural north-western Burkina Faso.
AB  - Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN73824458.

UI  - 18408387
TI  - Enhanced efficacy of amodiaquine and chlorpheniramine combination over amodiaquine alone in the treatment of acute uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in children.
AB  - The combination of AMQ plus CP proved significantly more effective than AMQ alone in the treatment of acute uncomplicated falciparum malaria, most probably due to the enhancement of the antimalarial effect of AMQ by CP. The combination of AMQCP could be a better alternative to AMQ alone as a companion drug in artemisinin-based combination therapies.

UI  - 18397402
TI  - Clinical diagnosis of malaria and the risk of chloroquine self-medication in rural health centres in Burkina Faso.
AB  - As long as artemisinin-based combination therapy remains unavailable or unaffordable for most people in rural areas of Burkina Faso, self-medication with and prescription of CQ are likely to continue despite increasing resistance. Apart from considering more pragmatic first-line regimens for malaria treatment such as the combination of sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine with amodiaquine, more and better training on careful clinical management of febrile children including an appropriate consideration of other illnesses than malaria should be made available in the frame of the IMCI initiative in sub-Saharan Africa.

UI  - 18396608
TI  - Impact of pre-packaging antimalarial drugs and counselling on compliance with malaria treatment at Port Moresby General Hospital Adult Outpatient Department.
AB  - We investigated the impact of pre-packaging antimalarial drugs and counselling on compliance with treatment of malaria at the Adult Outpatient Department of Port Moresby General Hospital. Adult patients who were prescribed standard antimalarial drugs following clinical and microscopic diagnosis of malaria were randomly assigned to one of three groups: an intervention group, where pre-packaging and counselling instructions were applied; control group A, with counselling but no pre-packaging; and control group B, with neither counselling nor pre-packaging. Patients were interviewed on two occasions, day 1 of treatment and day 4 post treatment. Of a total of 436 patients, 322 patients (179 males and 143 females) completed the study. Our data indicate an increase of 18% in compliance with treatment in the intervention group and 16% in control group A, when compared with control group B. While compliance with treatment was gender independent, the language spoken and used for giving instructions and counselling may have influenced patients' behaviour on prescribed medication. The results of our study indicate that a simple pre-packaging system and proper counselling could improve compliance with antimalarial drug treatment. As an additional beneficial observation, pre-packaging is likely to eliminate errors and possible contamination of the products during dispensing.

UI  - 18394169
TI  - Assessment of the efficacy of antimalarial drugs recommended by the National Malaria Control Programme in Madagascar: up-dated baseline data from randomized and multi-site clinical trials.
AB  - These findings (i) constitute an up-dated baseline data on the efficacy of antimalarial drugs recommended by the NMCP, (ii) show that antimalarial drug resistance remains low in Madagascar, except for CQ, compared to the bordering countries in the Indian Ocean region such as the Comoros Archipelago and (iii) support the current policy of ASAQ as the first-line treatment in uncomplicated falciparum malaria.

UI  - 18364043
TI  - Process and effects of a community intervention on malaria in rural Burkina Faso: randomized controlled trial.
AB  - The decreasing prevalence of malaria morbidity including anaemia over the study period can be explained by an overall increase of malaria prevention and treatment activities in the study area. The lack of effectiveness of the intervention was likely caused by contamination, pre-existing differences in the coverage of malaria treatment in both study groups and an unexpectedly rapid increase of resistance against CQ, the first-line treatment drug at the time of the study.

UI  - 18346028
TI  - High efficacy of two artemisinin-based combinations (artemether-lumefantrine and artesunate plus amodiaquine) for acute uncomplicated malaria in Ibadan, Nigeria.
AB  - ASAQ is as effective as AL and both combinations were efficacious and safe.

UI  - 18343702
TI  - Single-day, three-dose treatment with fixed dose combination artesunate/sulfamethoxypyrazine/pyrimethamine to cure Plasmodium falciparum malaria.
AB  - The 24-hour therapy is as well tolerated and efficacious as the same medicament administered over 3 days. This low cost and simplified three-pill treatment is certain to improve compliance.

UI  - 18337343
TI  - Efficacy, safety, and selection of molecular markers of drug resistance by two ACTs in Mali.
AB  - We conducted a randomized single-blinded trial comparing the efficacy and safety of artesunate (AS) + amodiaquine (AQ, 3 days) versus AS (3 days) + sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine (SP, single dose) versus AS monotherapy (5 days) in Southern Mali. Uncomplicated malaria cases were followed for 28 days. Molecular markers of drug resistance were determined. After identification of recrudescences by genotyping, both artemisinin-based combination therapies (ACTs) reached nearly 100% efficacy at Day 14 and Day 28 versus 98.3% and 96.5% for AS, respectively (P > 0.05). AS + SP significantly selected DHFR and DHPS mutations associated with sulfadoxine and pyrimethamine resistance (P < 0.001), and AS + AQ equally selected PfCRT and PfMDR1 point mutations associated with chloroquine and AQ resistance (P < 0.001). No significant adverse event attributable to any of the study drugs was found. The ACTs were efficacious and safe, but the selection of markers for resistance to the partner drugs raises concerns over their lifespan in areas of intense malaria transmission.

UI  - 18328518
TI  - A randomised trial to assess the efficacy and safety of chlorproguanil/dapsone + artesunate for the treatment of uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria.
AB  - We tested the efficacy and safety of chlorproguanil/dapsone co-administered with artesunate (CD+A) for the treatment of uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in children compared with amodiaquine+sulfadoxine/pyrimethamine (AQ+SP) at two different sites in Rwanda. The trial was open label and 800 patients were randomly assigned to AQ+SP (n=400) or CD+A (n=400). Patients were hospitalised for 3 days and then followed-up weekly until Day 28 after treatment. Clinical and parasitological outcomes were recorded. Results showed that neither treatment was adequately efficacious. At one site, the adequate clinical and parasitological response (ACPR), PCR-adjusted, was 73.3% in the CD+A arm and 87.8% in the AQ+SP arm (P<0.001), and at the second site the ACPR, PCR-adjusted, was 70.5% in the CD+A arm and 38.1% in the AQ+SP arm (P<0.001). The combination CD+A is considered an alternative to, or replacement for, SP in Africa because CD has been shown to be effective in patients for whom SP treatment has failed and, with its short half-life, it is expected to exert less selection pressure for resistant parasites than SP. However, the results of this trial indicate that in an area of high SP resistance, CD+A may not be the best choice.

UI  - 18321547
TI  - Dihydrofolate reductase I164L mutations in Plasmodium falciparum isolates: clinical outcome of 14 Kenyan adults infected with parasites harbouring the I164L mutation.
AB  - Recently, Plasmodium falciparum bearing dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR) I164L was isolated from Africa. Quadruple mutations containing I164L confer high-level resistance to antifolate antimalarials. We prospectively measured the effect of co-trimoxazole (CTX) prophylaxis on P. falciparum antifolate resistance development among HIV-infected persons. HIV-positive patients with CD4 cell count < 350 cells/microl (n=692) received CTX; HIV-positive patients with CD4 cell count > or = 350 cells/microl (n=336) and HIV-negative patients (n=132) received multivitamins. Malaria microscopy-positive samples (n=413) and selected microscopy-negative/PCR-positive samples (n=76) were analysed for DHFR mutations at baseline and during six months follow up. We identified I164L in 14 patients. Seven were malaria microscopy-positive: two failed sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine (SP). Among seven microscopy-negative/PCR-positive patients, none developed patent infections with I164L. I164L was not associated with high-level SP resistance or poor outcome among adults living where malaria is highly endemic. Surveillance to monitor spread of I164L is critical, especially among children and pregnant women, who are potentially a source for I164L amplification.

UI  - 18320064
TI  - Open-label comparative clinical study of chlorproguanil-dapsone fixed dose combination (Lapdap) alone or with three different doses of artesunate for uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00519467.

UI  - 18297163
TI  - Intermittent preventive treatment of malaria in pregnancy: a new delivery system and its effect on maternal health and pregnancy outcomes in Uganda.
AB  - The new approaches were associated with early access and increased adherence to IPTp. Health units were, however, more effective in reducing parasitaemia and malaria episodes. We recommend further studies to assess programming modalities linking the new approaches and health units.

UI  - 18294337
TI  - Population pharmacokinetics of chloroquine and sulfadoxine and treatment response in children with malaria: suggestions for an improved dose regimen.
AB  - The study results suggest that full-strength combination to all children would improve the cure rate.

UI  - 18286187
TI  - Safety and efficacy of methylene blue combined with artesunate or amodiaquine for uncomplicated falciparum malaria: a randomized controlled trial from Burkina Faso.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00354380.

UI  - 18270569
TI  - Sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine-based combinations for malaria: a randomised blinded trial to compare efficacy, safety and selection of resistance in Malawi.
AB  - Controlled-Trials.com ISRCTN22075368.

UI  - 18268090
TI  - Malaria treatment with atovaquone-proguanil in malaria-immune adults: implications for malaria intervention trials and for pre-exposure prophylaxis of malaria.
AB  - Eighty adults in areas of Kenya where malaria is holoendemic received presumptive treatment with atovaquone-proguanil and were followed closely. The time to the first Plasmodium falciparum parasitemia was 32 days. This prolonged prophylaxis period has implications for study design when used in malaria intervention trials and cautiously suggests clinical investigation of potential preexposure prophylaxis of malaria.

UI  - 18267042
TI  - Sulphadoxine/pyrimethamine versus amodiaquine for treating uncomplicated childhood malaria in Gabon: a randomized trial to guide national policy.
AB  - The level of AQ-resistance observed in the present study may compromise efficacy and duration of use of the AQ/AS combination, the new first-line malaria treatment. Gabonese policy-makers need to plan country-wide and close surveillance of AQ/AS efficacy to determine whether, and for how long, these new recommendations for the treatment of uncomplicated malaria remain valid.

UI  - 18256423
TI  - Treatment of acute uncomplicated falciparum malaria with artemether-lumefantrine in nonimmune populations: a safety, efficacy, and pharmacokinetic study.
AB  - The efficacy and safety of artemether-lumefantrine for the treatment of malaria in nonimmune populations are not well defined. In this study, 165 nonimmune patients from Europe and non-malarious areas of Colombia with acute, uncomplicated falciparum malaria or mixed infection including P. falciparum were treated with the six-dose regimen of artemether-lumefantrine. The parasitologic cure rate at 28 days was 96.0% for the per protocol population (119/124 patients). Median times to parasite clearance and fever clearance were 41.5 and 36.8 hours, respectively. No patient had gametocytes after Day 7. Treatment was well tolerated; most adverse events were mild to moderate and seemed to be related to malaria. There were few serious adverse events, none of which were considered to be drug-related. No significant effects on ECG or laboratory parameters were observed. In conclusion, the six-dose regimen of artemether-lumefantrine was effective and well tolerated in the treatment of acute uncomplicated falciparum malaria in nonimmune patients.

UI  - 18252000
TI  - Why don't health workers prescribe ACT? A qualitative study of factors affecting the prescription of artemether-lumefantrine.
AB  - The introduction of free efficacious ACTs in the public health sector in Kenya and other countries has major potential public health benefits for Africa. These may not be realized if provider prescription practices do not conform to the recommended treatment guidelines. It is essential that high quality training, drug supply and supervision work synergistically to ensure appropriate case management.

UI  - 18237394
TI  - Major reduction of malaria morbidity with combined vitamin A and zinc supplementation in young children in Burkina Faso: a randomized double blind trial.
AB  - These results suggest that combined vitamin A plus zinc supplementation reduces the risk of fever and clinical malaria episodes among children, and thus may play a key role in malaria control strategies for children in Africa.

UI  - 18165484
TI  - The cost-effectiveness of parasitologic diagnosis for malaria-suspected patients in an era of combination therapy.
AB  - The introduction of artemisinin-based combination therapy in sub-Saharan Africa has prompted calls for increased use of parasitologic diagnosis for malaria. We evaluated the cost-effectiveness of rapid diagnostic tests (RDTs) in comparison to microscopy in guiding treatment of non-severe febrile illness at varying levels of malaria endemicity using data on test accuracy and costs collected as part of a Tanzanian trial. If prescribers complied with current guidelines, microscopy would give rise to lower average costs per patient correctly treated than RDTs in areas of both high and low transmission. RDT introduction would result in an additional 2.3% and 9.4% of patients correctly treated, at an incremental cost of $25 and $7 in the low and high transmission settings, respectively. Cost-effectiveness would be worse if prescribers do not comply with test results. The cost of this additional benefit may be higher than many countries can afford without external assistance or lower RDT prices.

UI  - 18226224
TI  - An interactive model for the assessment of the economic costs and benefits of different rapid diagnostic tests for malaria.
AB  - Model output demonstrates that which test is preferable varies by location, depending on factors such as malaria transmission intensity and the costs and accuracies of the RDTs under consideration. Despite the uncertainties and complexities involved, adaptable models such as the one presented here can serve as a practical tool to assist policy makers in efficient deployment of new technologies.

UI  - 18225731
TI  - [Analysis of 1697 cases of childhood malaria treated using intra-rectal Quinimax (QIR) in the Tilaberi health district in Niger].
AB  - Management of malaria attacks with vomiting or other complications in rural areas of Africa raises the often insurmountable challenge of transferring patients to medical centers better equipped than health dispensaries providing initial care. In addition intramuscular quinine can lead to complications. Since intrarectal administration of quinine could help to resolve these problems, it should be included in the therapeutic algorithm. The purpose of this study was to validate the safety, acceptability, tolerance, and efficacy of Intra-Rectal Quinimax (QIR) for treatment of children (0 to 10 years) in the rural Tilaberi region of Niger where malaria is endemic. Of the 3012 children enrolled in the study, a total of 1697 benefited from treatment with treatment using QIR. Thirty-five percent of the cases treated involved complicated malaria attacks. Use of QIR caused no problem in terms of safety or acceptability. Duration of surveillance following treatment using QIR in children is particularly important to prevent early evacuation of the product that was observed in 16% of cases. No short-term side effects were observed. Contraindications for QIR were observed in 10% of the patients enrolled in the study. Success and mortality rates were not statistically different after intrarectal and intramuscular administration. A survey to evaluate the skill of care providers was carried out at the onset of the study. The presentation and functionality of the QIR kit was validated by care providers.

UI  - 18205945
TI  - Randomized, comparative study of the efficacy and safety of artesunate plus amodiaquine, administered as a single daily intake versus two daily intakes in the treatment of uncomplicated falciparum malaria.
AB  - This pilot study confirms the efficacy and good tolerability of artesunate plus amodiaquine, administrated either in one or in two daily intakes.

UI  - 18186976
TI  - The antischistosomal efficacies of artesunate-sulfamethoxypyrazine-pyrimethamine and artemether-lumefantrine administered as treatment for uncomplicated, Plasmodium falciparum malaria.
AB  - Although artemisinin and its derivatives are widely used for the treatment of malaria, they also have antischistosomal activity. In a small study in eastern Sudan, the effects of the treatment of uncomplicated, Plasmodium falciparum malaria with artesunate-sulfamethoxypyrazine-pyrimethamine (AS-SMP) and artemether-lumefantrine (AT-LU) on co-infections with Schistosoma mansoni were therefore investigated. Faecal samples from 14 of the 306 patients screened on presentation, at the start of a clinical trial of antimalarial treatment, were found to contain Schistosoma mansoni eggs. For the treatment of their malaria, the 14 egg-positive cases, who were aged 6-40 years (mean = 13.7 years), were each subsequently treated with three tablets of a fixed combination of AS-SMP, with a 12-h (six patients) or 24-h interval (five patients) between each tablet, or with six doses of AT-LU given over 3 days. When checked 28 and 29 days after the initiation of treatment, all 14 patients were found stool-negative for schistosome eggs. These results indicate that AS-SMP and AT-LU are currently very effective treatments not only for uncomplicated, P. falciparum malaria but also for S. mansoni infections.

UI  - 18186973
TI  - Comparative study of interactions between chloroquine and chlorpheniramine or promethazine in healthy volunteers: a potential combination-therapy phenomenon for resuscitating chloroquine for malaria treatment in Africa.
AB  - Although, in in-vitro and limited in-vivo studies, chlorpheniramine (CP) and promethazine (PR) have each been shown to reverse chloroquine (CQ) resistance, the pharmacokinetic basis of this reversal has not been fully elucidated. In the present study, 15 healthy volunteers were randomly allotted to receive standard doses of CQ alone or in combination with CP or PR. Blood samples were collected from each volunteer at 21 time-points, from immediately before to 168 h after the initial dose. These samples were used to follow the changes in the plasma and erythrocytic concentrations of CQ. The ratio between the mean maximum CQ concentration in the erythrocytes and that in the plasma was 4.2 for the volunteers given CQ alone, 7.3 in those given CQ-CP, and 3.2 in those given CQ-PR. CP significantly enhanced the erythrocytic accumulation of CQ, increasing the maximum CQ concentration observed in the erythrocytes by 24% (P = 0.02). The bio-availability of CQ was also significantly increased in the presence of CP, with the mean value for the area under the curve, of erythrocytic concentration v. time, increasing from 99,921 to 214,516 ng/ml.h (P=0.001). The mean half-life of CQ in the erythrocytes also increased when CP was used, from 51 to 100 h, but this change was not statistically significant (P=0.83). In contrast to CP, PR had no statistically significant effect on the disposition of CQ. As CP clearly enhances disposition of CQ, a combination of CQ with CP may be useful in the management of CQ-resistant infections. Detailed toxicological studies are required to understand the full clinical implications of CP's elevation of erythrocytic CQ concentrations.

UI  - 18182114
TI  - Feasibility and acceptability of artemisinin-based combination therapy for the home management of malaria in four African sites.
AB  - ACTs can be successfully integrated into the HMM strategy.

UI  - 18180343
TI  - Population pharmacokinetics of piperaquine after two different treatment regimens with dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine in patients with Plasmodium falciparum malaria in Thailand.
AB  - The population pharmacokinetics of piperaquine in adults and children with uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria treated with two different dosage regimens of dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine were characterized. Piperaquine pharmacokinetics in 98 Burmese and Karen patients aged 3 to 55 years were described by a two-compartment disposition model with first-order absorption and interindividual random variability on all parameters and were similar with the three- and four-dose regimens. Children had a lower body weight-normalized oral clearance than adults, resulting in longer terminal elimination half-lives and higher total exposure to piperaquine (area under the concentration-time curve from 0 to 63 days [AUC day 0-63]). However, children had lower plasma concentrations in the therapeutically relevant posttreatment prophylactic period (AUC day 3-20) because of smaller body weight-normalized central volumes of distribution and shorter distribution half-lives. Our data lend further support to a simplified once-daily treatment regimen to improve treatment adherence and efficacy and indicate that weight-adjusted piperaquine doses in children may need to be higher than in adults.

UI  - 18165528
TI  - Confirmation of the protective effect of Ascaris lumbricoides on Plasmodium falciparum infection: results of a randomized trial in Madagascar.
AB  - A controlled randomized trial of anti-helminthic treatment was undertaken in 1996-1997 in a rural area of Madagascar where populations were simultaneously infected with Ascaris lumbricoides, Plasmodium falciparum, and Schistosoma mansoni. Levamisole was administered bimonthly to 107 subjects, whereas 105 were controls. Levamisole was highly effective in reducing Ascaris egg loads in the treated group (P < 10(-3) at all visits), whereas it had no effect on schistosomiasis. Subjects 5-14 years of age, treated with levamisole, had a significant increase of their P. falciparum densities compared with controls (P = 0.003). There was no effect of the treatment on children 6 months to 4 years of age, nor on adults > 15 years of age. This study confirms the results of a randomized trial, which showed a negative interaction in those > 5 years of age between Ascaris and malaria parasite density in another Malagasy population, submitted to a higher malaria transmission.

UI  - 18165518
TI  - Short report: prevalence and chloroquine sensitivity of Plasmodium malariae in Madagascar.
AB  - We report the results of clinical studies carried out at six sites in Madagascar, between January and October 2006. The aims were (i) to update our knowledge of the burden of Plasmodium malariae infection and (ii) to assess the therapeutic efficacy of chloroquine for uncomplicated quartan malaria. Our findings confirm that P. malariae is the third leading cause of malaria, accounting for 1.1% of all malarial infections. They also demonstrate that chloroquine-currently recommended for the home management of presumed malaria in children under the age of five years and commonly used by adults-remains highly effective in patients with uncomplicated P. malariae infection.

UI  - 18165513
TI  - Malaria chemoprophylaxis: what do the travelers choose, and how does pretravel consultation influence their final decision.
AB  - Three different drugs (mefloquine, atovaquone/proguanil, doxycycline) are recommended for malaria chemoprophylaxis, each with approximately the same efficacy but various adverse event profiles, regimens, and prices. We investigated which medication the travelers would have chosen on the basis of written evidence-based information and the impact that pretravel consultation had on their decision. A prospective study was performed in a travel clinic and private practice, and 1073 travelers were included; 45% chose mefloquine (Lariam or Mephaquine), 21% atovaquone/proguanil (Malarone), 18% doxycycline (Supracycline), 5% "no prophylaxis," and 11% "do not know." Lariam was principally chosen because of prior experience (38%), Mephaquine because of low price (34%), and doxycycline and Malarone because of the profile of adverse events (55% and 43%, respectively). Based on objective written information, travelers most frequently chose mefloquine for chemoprophylaxis. This suggests that evidence-based information weighs more heavily than negative publicity. Taking into account the perspective of the user should improve appropriateness of the pretravel advice.

UI  - 19738339
TI  - A randomized clinical trial comparing safety, clinical and parasitological response to artemether-lumefantrine and chlorproguanil-dapsone in treatment of uncomplicated malaria in pregnancy in Mulago hospital, Uganda.
AB  - Artemether-Lumefantrine and Chlorproguanil-Dapsone have high and comparable cure rates and similar safety profiles when used for treatment of uncomplicated malaria in pregnancy.

UI  - 18154655
TI  - Adding artesunate to sulphadoxine-pyrimethamine greatly improves the treatment efficacy in children with uncomplicated falciparum malaria on the coast of Benin, West Africa.
AB  - In Benin, artesunate + sulphadoxine-pyrimethamine is efficacious and could be used when the recommended artemisinin-based combinations (artemether-lumefantrine and amodiaquine-artesunate) are not available. However, because sulphadoxine-pyrimethamine is also used in pregnant women as intermittent preventive treatment, its combination with artesunate should not be widely employed in malaria patients as this may compromise the efficacy of intermittent preventive treatment.

UI  - 18087896
TI  - Placental malaria in Owerri, Imo State, south-eastern Nigeria.
AB  - Malaria in pregnancy jeopardizes the outcome of pregnancy, affecting both the mother and the foetus. The prevalence of placental malaria in women, who routinely attended ante-natal clinics in Owerri, south-eastern Nigeria, was assessed using three hospitals between March 2004 and August 2005. Placental blood was collected in EDTA bottles from incisions made on cleaned basal plate of the placenta, within an hour of delivery. Blood collected was used to assess ABO blood group, haemoglobin level as well as malaria parasitaemia. Malaria parasitaemia was determined from thick and thin smears stained with Giemsa, while the haemoglobin level was measured using the cyanomethaemoglobin method. A total of 586 pregnant women were involved in this study with written consents. Malaria parasites were observed in 175 (29.9%) of the women on delivery. Of these women, 64 (36.6%) were anaemic. A significant relationship at P<0.05 variation, was observed between the prevalence of malaria parasites in the placenta and gravidity, age and blood group. The rate of occurrence of malaria parasitaemia, in the placenta of women who were on a weekly prophylaxis against malaria is alarming and calls for more serious efforts in the prevention of malaria especially in this vulnerable group.

UI  - 18082233
TI  - Antimalarial resistance and DHFR/DHPS genotypes of Plasmodium falciparum three years after introduction of sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine and amodiaquine in rural Tanzania.
AB  - We assessed the efficacy of sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine (SP) and amodiaquine (AQ) and DHFR/DHPS genotypes of Plasmodium falciparum in rural Tanzania, 3 years after their introduction as first- and second-line treatments for uncomplicated malaria, respectively. Under five children with uncomplicated malaria were given standard treatments of either SP (n=66) or AQ (n=30) and treatment outcomes after 14 and 28 days were determined. Total treatment failure of 18 and 42.5% was observed for SP on days 14 and 28, respectively. For AQ, total treatment failure of 27 and 53% was found on day 14 and 28, respectively. On day 14, significantly lower SP total treatment failures were observed in 2004 compared with results from a study conducted in 1999 in the same location. No relationship was detected between clinical outcome and DHFR/DHPS genotypes, but the point mutation prevalence in parasites was higher than in 1999. Pre-treatment blood levels of SP were detected in a quarter of the study children: less than expected. We report unacceptably high levels of total treatment failures, both for first- and second-line treatments for uncomplicated malaria in Tanzania 3 years after their introduction, supporting the decision to replace them with artemisinin-based combination therapy.

UI  - 18074034
TI  - A randomized open-label trial of artesunate- sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine with or without primaquine for elimination of sub-microscopic P. falciparum parasitaemia and gametocyte carriage in eastern Sudan.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00330902.

UI  - 18005442
TI  - Pilot feasibility study of an emergency paediatric kit for intra-rectal quinine administration used by the personnel of community-based health care units in Senegal.
AB  - The emergency paediatric kit is a useful tool in the management of malaria in children who cannot be treated orally. It is feasible and easy to use for health workers in community-based Health Units where, according to the WHO, nearly 80% of malarial morbidity and mortality occurs.

UI  - 18000538
TI  - A randomized controlled pilot trial of azithromycin or artesunate added to sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine as treatment for malaria in pregnant women.
AB  - ClinialTrials.gov NCT00287300.

UI  - 17996121
TI  - Efficacy and safety of artemisinin-based antimalarial in the treatment of uncomplicated malaria in children in southern Tanzania.
AB  - These findings provide substantial evidence that AL is highly efficacious in areas of high resistance of SP and supported the country's decision to switch from SP monotherapy to AL.

UI  - 17990426
TI  - Treatment of uncomplicated plasmodium falciparum malaria with quinine-doxycycline combination therapy.
AB  - Quinine-doxycycline combination is effective in southern Pakistan. Randomized controlled trials are needed to further validate the claim.

UI  - 17990228
TI  - Randomized comparison of amodiaquine plus sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine, artemether-lumefantrine, and dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine for the treatment of uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in Burkina Faso.
AB  - All regimens were highly efficacious in clearing infection, but considering the risks of recurrent malaria after therapy, the amodiaquine plus sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine and dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine regimens were more efficacious than the artemether-lumefantrine regimen (the new national regimen in Burkina Faso) for the treatment of uncomplicated P. falciparum malaria.

UI  - 17990227
TI  - Rectal versus intravenous quinine for the treatment of childhood cerebral malaria in Kampala, Uganda: a randomized, double-blind clinical trial.
AB  - Intrarectal quinine is efficacious and could be used as an alternative in the treatment of childhood cerebral malaria, especially in situations in which intravenous therapy is not feasible.

UI  - 17984359
TI  - Low efficacy of amodiaquine or chloroquine plus sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine against Plasmodium falciparum and P. vivax malaria in Papua New Guinea.
AB  - Because of increasing resistance to 4-aminoquinolines in Papua New Guinea, combination therapy of amodiaquine (AQ) or chloroquine (CQ) plus sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine (SP) was introduced as first-line treatment against uncomplicated malaria in 2000. The purpose of this study was to monitor in vivo efficacy of the current standard combination therapy against Plasmodium falciparum and P. vivax malaria. Studies were conducted between 2003 and 2005 in the Simbu, East Sepik, and Madang Provinces in Papua New Guinea according to the revised protocol of the World Health Organization (WHO) for assessment of antimalarial drug efficacy. Children between six months and seven years of age with clinically overt and parasitologically confirmed P. falciparum or P. vivax malaria were treated according to the new policy guidelines (i.e., AQ plus SP given to patients weighing < 14 kg and CQ plus SP given to patients weighing < 14 kg). Children were monitored up to day 28 and classified according to clinical and parasitological outcome as adequate clinical and parasitological response (ACPR), early treatment failure (ETF), late clinical failure (LCF), or late parasitological failure (LPF). For P. falciparum malaria, polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-corrected treatment failure rates up to day 28 ranged between 10.3% and 28.8% for AQ plus SP and between 5.6% and 28.6% for CQ plus SP, depending on the region and the year of assessment. Overall treatment failure rate with AQ or CQ plus SP for P. vivax malaria was 12%. Our results suggest that the current first-line treatment in Papua New Guinea is not sufficiently effective. According to the new WHO guidelines for the treatment of malaria, a rate of parasitological resistance greater than 10% in the two dominant malaria species in the country justifies a change in treatment policy.

UI  - 17978058
TI  - Comparison of different artemisinin-based combinations for the treatment of Plasmodium falciparum malaria in children in Kigali, Rwanda, an area of resistance to sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine: artesunate plus sulfadoxine/pyrimethamine versus artesunate plus sulfamethoxypyrazine/pyrimethamine.
AB  - In view of the changing policy towards artemisinin-based combination therapies (ACTs), the efficacy, tolerance, and degree of re-infection of two ACTs were investigated: artesunate plus sulfadoxine/pyrimethamine (As + SP) and AS plus sulfamethoxypyrazine/pyrimethamine (As + SMP). One hundred three children were assigned to receive As + SP and 109 to receive As + SMP. In spite of the high incidence of resistance to SP, As + SP showed satisfactory results consistent with recent recommendations for ACTs (adequate clinical and parasitologic response on day 28 [ACPR] > or = 90%), but results with As + SMP fulfilled the most stringent criteria (ACPR > or = 95%). The absence of side effects and the low price of these drugs make them it worth to reconsider national therapies in favor of either of these two drug combinations.

UI  - 17971864
TI  - A randomised controlled trial to assess the efficacy of dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine for the treatment of uncomplicated falciparum malaria in Peru.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00373607.

UI  - 17967917
TI  - Pharmacokinetics and efficacy of piperaquine and chloroquine in Melanesian children with uncomplicated malaria.
AB  - The disposition of chloroquine (CQ) and the related 4-aminoquinoline, piperaquine (PQ), were compared in Papua New Guinean children with uncomplicated malaria. Twenty-two children were randomized to 3 days of PQ phosphate at 20 mg/kg/day (12 mg of PQ base/kg/day) coformulated with dihydroartemisinin (DHA-PQ), and twenty children were randomized to 3 days of CQ at 10 mg base/kg/day with a single dose of sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine (CQ-SP). After a 42-day intensive sampling protocol, PQ, CQ, and its active metabolite monodesethyl-chloroquine (DECQ) were assayed in plasma by using high-performance liquid chromatography. A two-compartment model with first-order absorption was fitted to the PQ and CQ data. There were no significant differences in age, gender, body weight, or admission parasitemia between the two groups. The PCR-corrected 42-day adequate clinical and parasitological responses were 100% for DHA-PQ and 94% for CQ-SP, but P. falciparum reinfections during follow-up were common (33 and 18%, respectively). For PQ, the median volume of distribution at steady state, allowing for bioavailability (Vss/F), was 431 liters/kg (interquartile range [IQR], 283 to 588 liters/kg), the median clearance (CL/F) was 0.85 liters/h/kg (IQR, 0.67 to 1.06 liters/h/kg), the median distribution half-life (t 1/2 alpha) was 0.12 h (IQR, 0.05 to 0.66 h), and the median elimination half-life (t 1/2 beta) was 413 h (IQR, 318 to 516 h). For CQ, the median Vss/F was 154 liters/kg (IQR, 101 to 210 liters/kg), the median CL/F was 0.80 liters/h/kg (IQR, 0.52 to 0.96 liters/h/kg), the median t 1/2 alpha was 0.43 h (IQR, 0.05 to 1.82 h), and the median t 1/2 beta was 233 h (IQR, 206 to 298 h). The noncompartmentally derived median DECQ t 1/2 beta was 290 h (IQR, 236 to 368 h). Combined molar concentrations of DECQ and CQ were higher than those of PQ during the elimination phase. Although PQ has a longer t 1/2 beta than CQ, its prompt distribution and lack of active metabolite may limit its posttreatment malaria-suppressive properties.

UI  - 17958887
TI  - Mannitol as adjunct therapy for childhood cerebral malaria in Uganda: a randomized clinical trial.
AB  - Mannitol had no significant impact on clinical outcome of cerebral malaria. It is difficult to recommend intravenous mannitol as adjunct therapy for childhood cerebral malaria.

UI  - 17949398
TI  - Comparison of the therapeutic efficacy of chloroquine and sulphadoxine-pyremethamine in children and pregnant women.
AB  - Parasitological failure rates were significantly lower in asymptomatic pregnant women, particularly in multigravidae, compared with symptomatic children. Reliance on drug sensitivity results observed in children only to decide on antimalarial regimes for pregnant women may not be appropriate.

UI  - 17945320
TI  - Home-based management of fever and malaria treatment practices in Uganda.
AB  - The Home-Based Management of Fever/Malaria (HBMF) strategy in rural Uganda was evaluated in a quasi-experimental study. The intervention consisted of volunteers educating mothers and providing a 3-day course of pre-packaged chloroquine plus sulfadoxine/pyrimethamine tablets (HOMAPAK), free of charge, for the treatment of under-five fevers. Using a structured questionnaire, information was obtained on care-seeking and treatment practices before (n=498) and 18 months after the introduction of HBMF (n=587). Assessment of the intervention effect indicated 13.5% improvement in the accumulated proportion of patients (1) treated, (2) treated within 24h of illness onset, (3) treated with the recommended antimalarials, (4) treated at an adequate dosage and (5) treated for the correct duration. Combining this with the antimalarial drug efficacy resulted in a 10.4% improvement in the community effectiveness of malaria treatment. HOMAPAK use was reported in 25% of 156 febrile children; 23% in the most poor compared with 50% in the least poor. Using HOMAPAK instead of other allopathic antimalarials increased the likelihood of completing all steps (odds ratio 37, 95% CI 4.8-286). Similar to other large-scale public health interventions, this study demonstrates modest practice changes at the population level. However, practices improved markedly among HOMAPAK users, suggesting that intensifying implementation efforts to increase HOMAPAK use, especially among the poorest, would be beneficial.

UI  - 17925871
TI  - Primaquine clears submicroscopic Plasmodium falciparum gametocytes that persist after treatment with sulphadoxine-pyrimethamine and artesunate.
AB  - Controlled-Trials.com ISRCTN61534963.

UI  - 17920092
TI  - Argemone mexicana decoction for the treatment of uncomplicated falciparum malaria.
AB  - A prospective, dose-escalating, quasi-experimental clinical trial was conducted with a traditional healer using a decoction of Argemone mexicana for the treatment of malaria in Mali. The remedy was prescribed in three regimens: once daily for 3 days (Group A; n=23); twice daily for 7 days (Group B; n=40); and four times daily for the first 4 days followed by twice daily for 3 days (Group C; n=17). Thus, 80 patients were included, of whom 80% were aged<5 years and 25% were aged<1 year. All presented to the traditional healer with symptoms of malaria and had a Plasmodium falciparum parasitaemia>2000/microl but no signs of severe malaria. The proportions of adequate clinical response (ACR) at Day 14 were 35%, 73% and 65% in Groups A, B and C, respectively (P=0.011). At Day 14, overall proportions of ACR were lower in children aged<1 year (45%) and higher in patients aged>5 years (81%) (P=0.027). Very few patients had complete parasite clearance, but at Day 14, 67% of patients with ACR had a parasitaemia<2000/microl. No patient needed referral for severe disease. Only minor side effects were observed. Further research should determine whether this local resource could represent a first-aid home treatment in remote areas.

UI  - 17907754
TI  - Assessing the impact of educational intervention for improving management of malaria and other childhood illnesses in Kibaha District-Tanzania.
AB  - Changing the private sectors' knowledge, behaviour and practices/performance may be a slow and difficult process. The intervention approach applied in this study seems to be feasible at district-level. This strategy can be applied in all districts of Tanzania with the aim of achieving significant improvements in knowledge, behaviour, compliance, improving performance and practices of drug sellers in drug stores/shops. However, other alternative strategies are needed to influence drug sellers'/dispensers' compliance and performance. Thus, the overall impact on performance and practices in these facilities will remain at moderate level for quite sometime unless national policies, other programs and stakeholders are involved actively.

UI  - 17884832
TI  - Pharmacokinetics of two paediatric artesunate mefloquine drug formulations in the treatment of uncomplicated falciparum malaria in Gabon.
AB  - The pharmacokinetic characteristics of the two paediatric dosage forms, i.e. the novel fixed-dose co-formulation and the standard co-blister of artesunate-mefloquine show comparable results in the two treatment groups. The novel fixed-dose paediatric formulation is an interesting option for outpatient treatment of uncomplicated malaria in African children.

UI  - 17846129
TI  - Clinical and pharmacological determinants of the therapeutic response to dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine for drug-resistant malaria.
AB  - Dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine (DHP) is an important new treatment for drug-resistant malaria, although pharmacokinetic studies on the combination are limited. In Papua, Indonesia, we assessed determinants of the therapeutic efficacy of DHP for uncomplicated malaria. Plasma piperaquine concentrations were measured on day 7 and day 28, and the cumulative risk of parasitological failure at day 42 was calculated using survival analysis. Of the 598 patients in the evaluable population 342 had infections with Plasmodium falciparum, 83 with Plasmodium vivax, and 173 with a mixture of both species. The unadjusted cumulative risks of recurrence were 7.0% (95% confidence interval [CI]: 4.6 to 9.4%) for P. falciparum and 8.9% (95% CI: 6.0 to 12%) for P. vivax. After correcting for reinfections the risk of recrudescence with P. falciparum was 1.1% (95% CI: 0.1 to 2.1%). The major determinant of parasitological failure was the plasma piperaquine concentration. A concentration below 30 ng/ml on day 7 was observed in 38% (21/56) of children less than 15 years old and 22% (31/140) of adults (P = 0.04), even though the overall dose (mg per kg of body weight) in children was 9% higher than that in adults (P < 0.001). Patients with piperaquine levels below 30 ng/ml were more likely to have a recurrence with P. falciparum (hazard ratio [HR] = 6.6 [95% CI: 1.9 to 23]; P = 0.003) or P. vivax (HR = 9.0 [95% CI: 2.3 to 35]; P = 0.001). The plasma concentration of piperaquine on day 7 was the major determinant of the therapeutic response to DHP. Lower plasma piperaquine concentrations and higher failure rates in children suggest that dose revision may be warranted in this age group.

UI  - 17827358
TI  - Electrocardiographic safety evaluation of dihydroartemisinin piperaquine in the treatment of uncomplicated falciparum malaria.
AB  - Dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine (DP) could become a leading fixed combination malaria treatment worldwide. Although there is accumulating evidence of efficacy and safety from clinical trials, data on cardiotoxicity are limited. In two randomized controlled trials in Thailand, 56 patients had ECGs performed before treatment, 4 hours after the first dose, and 4 hours after the last dose. The mean (95% CI) changes in QTc interval (Bazett's correction) were 2 (-6 to 9) ms and 14 (7 to 21) ms, respectively. These small changes on the third day of treatment are similar to those observed elsewhere in the convalescent phase following antimalarial treatment with drugs known to have no cardiac effects and are therefore likely to result from recovery from acute malaria and not the treatment given. At therapeutic doses, DP does not have clinically significant effects on the electrocardiogram.

UI  - 17827354
TI  - Comparison of artemether-lumefantrine with sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine for the treatment of uncomplicated falciparum malaria in eastern Nepal.
AB  - Because available data suggest that resistance of Plasmodium falciparum to sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine (SP) is increasing in Nepal, an open-label, parallel-group efficacy/safety study was conducted in 99 Nepalese patients with uncomplicated falciparum malaria randomized 2:1 to artemetherlumefantrine (AL) or SP. Efficacy was assessed from clinical and microscopic evidence of treatment failure. Four SP-treated patients (12.1%; 95% CI, 4.0-29.1%) redeveloped parasitemia during the 28-day follow-up versus 0% (95% CI, 0-6.9%) in the AL group (P = 0.011), a difference that was confirmed by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analysis of parasite DNA. PCR detected an additional six patients (two SP and four AL) with sub-microscopic gametocytemia or breakthrough parasitemia between Days 14 and 28, suggesting that AL efficacy was lower than estimated by microscopy. Dhfr and dhps mutations were not associated with outcome. AL is more effective than SP for uncomplicated malaria in Nepal, but regular monitoring of its efficacy should be carried out if this combination therapy is introduced.

UI  - 17784688
TI  - [Open radomized study comparing chloroquine and amodiaquine for treatment of uncomplicated plasmodium falciparum malaria in children in Aboisso, Cote d' Ivoire].
AB  - 

UI  - 17716502
TI  - Amodiaquine in future combination treatment of malaria in Ghana.
AB  - A total of 198 patients were treated with amodiaquine for uncomplicated malaria. Parasite clearance at day 14 was 85.4 and 48% at day 28.

UI  - 17707447
TI  - Sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine plus artesunate compared with chloroquine for the treatment of vivax malaria in areas co-endemic for Plasmodium falciparum and P. vivax: a randomised non-inferiority trial in eastern Afghanistan.
AB  - Chloroquine (CQ) is an effective treatment of choice for vivax malaria in most settings, but with the spread of CQ-resistant Plasmodium falciparum, many countries now use artemisinin-based combination therapy for treatment of falciparum malaria. In areas co-endemic for falciparum and vivax malaria incorrect differential diagnosis is always a risk. In Afghanistan the adoption of sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine plus artesunate (SP+AS) as first-line falciparum treatment raises the prospect of a significant proportion of vivax malaria being misdiagnosed and treated with the combination. SP is considered to have limited efficacy against vivax malaria, and the efficacy of SP+AS against Plasmodium vivax has not been established in areas that are using SP+AS. A randomised, non-inferiority trial comparing SP+AS with CQ monotherapy was undertaken on 190 vivax malaria patients in eastern Afghanistan. Standard WHO procedures for in vivo evaluation of antimalarial drugs were followed. A total of 180 individuals completed the trial to day 42. Using a per protocol analysis, both regimens resulted in > or =96% treatment success at 28 d, but significantly more cases failed in the CQ arm (46%) than in the SP+AS arm (24%) by day 42. In areas where vivax infections might be misdiagnosed as falciparum infections and treated with SP+AS, patient management would be as good, or better than, with the standard CQ treatment.

UI  - 17690392
TI  - Therapeutic efficacy and effects of artemether-lumefantrine and amodiaquine-sulfalene-pyrimethamine on gametocyte carriage in children with uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in southwestern Nigeria.
AB  - The treatment efficacy and effects of artemether-lumefantrine (AL) and amodiaquine-sulfalene-pyrimethamine (ASP) on gametocyte carriage were evaluated in 181 children < or = 10 years of age with uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria randomized to receive either drug combination. All children recovered clinically. Fever clearance times were similar. The rate of P. falciparum reappearance (recrudescence or re-infection) between two and six weeks after the start of therapy was significantly higher in AL-treated children (P = 0.01). Parasite clearance was significantly faster in children treated with AL (mean +/- SD = 1.7 +/- 0.6 days, 95% confidence interval = 1.58 - 1.83, P = 0.0001) but the polymerase chain reaction-corrected cure rate (90 of 91 versus 84 of 90) and the rate of resolution of malaria-related anemia two weeks after treatment began (45 of 50 versus 33 of 46) were higher in children treated with ASP. Gametocyte carriage rates were similar. Both regimens were well tolerated. Artemether-lumefantrine clears parasitemia more rapidly than ASP but both combinations are effective in treatment of uncomplicated P. falciparum malaria in Nigerian children.

UI  - 17645863
TI  - Efficacy of sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine, amodiaquine, and sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine-amodiaquine combination for the treatment of uncomplicated falciparum malaria in the urban and suburban areas of Brazzaville (Congo).
AB  - Congo-Brazzaville has recently adopted artesunate-amodiaquine as the first-line antimalarial drug to replace chloroquine. Before the implementation of this new strategy, we conducted several clinical studies to assess the therapeutic efficacy of former, classical first-line antimalarial drugs in the city of Brazzaville, in which reside about 30% of the Congolese population. From 2003 to 2005, non-randomised trials were conducted to evaluate the efficacy of sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine (SP) (n=97 patients), amodiaquine (AQ) (n=62 patients), and the combination of sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine-amodiaquine (n=54 patients) in children aged between 6 months and 5 years with uncomplicated malaria using the 2003 WHO guidelines during the 28-day follow-up period. After excluding new infections by PCR, the proportion of treatment failure on day 28 was 30.2% (95% confidence interval, 19.2-43.0%) for sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine, 34.8% (95% confidence interval, 21.4-50.2%) for amodiaquine, and 14.2% (95% confidence interval, 5.9-27.2%) for sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine+amodiaquine combination. Treatment with sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine was associated with an increase of gametocyte charge. These results suggest that neither sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine nor amodiaquine is efficacious as monotherapy and that their combination may not remain effective in the coming years. Based on our results, the implementation of artemisinin-based combination therapy appears to be urgent in the country.

UI  - 17642523
TI  - Clinical efficacy of high dose monotherapy of oral dihydroartemisinin in uncomplicated falciparum malaria in viet nam.
AB  - The clinical efficacy of the monotherapy involving the administration of a high dose of dihydroartemisinin (DHA 900 mg) for 5 days was compared with that of the combination regimen (DHA 600 mg + mefloquine [MQ] 750 mg) in an open randomized study in 90 patients with uncomplicated falciparum malaria in the southern part of Viet Nam. Patients were randomly treated with the DHA-5 day monotherapy regimen (300, 300, 100, 100, and 100 mg given at 0, 24, 48, 72, and 96 h) or the DHA-MQ combination regimen (300 mg DHA at 0 h, then 300 mg DHA plus 750 mg MQ at 24 h). The end points for comparison were the parasite and fever clearance times (PCT and FCT) and recrudescence rates (by day 28 for DHA-5 days and day 42 for DHA-MQ). Eighty-nine patients completed the trial per protocol, including 45 cases receiving DHA-5 day and 44 receiving DHA-MQ. There was no difference in clinical manifestations, parasitemia density or other laboratory tests between the two patient groups. The PCTs were 35.3 +/- 17.4 h (mean +/- SD; range, 12-96) and 37.8 +/- 19.2 h (range, 12-96), respectively for the DHA-5 day and DHA-MQ regimens (P > 0.05). Twelve patients receiving the DHA-5 day regimen relapsed with falciparum malaria by day 28 (26.7%) and 5 patients receiving the DHA-MQ regimen relapsed by day 42 (11.4%) (P=0.07). Survival analysis showed that the DHA-5 day regimen had a radical cure rate significantly lower than that of the DHA-MQ regimen (P=0.003). The high dose of DHA in the monotherapy regimen did not increase the efficacy of the treatment of patients with uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria. The DHA combination regimens are suggested to be the better regimens for DHA.

UI  - 17635501
TI  - Pharmacokinetics and clinical efficacy of lorazepam in children with severe malaria and convulsions.
AB  - Administration of LZP (0.1 mg kg(-1)) resulted in rapid achievement of plasma LZP concentrations within the reported effective therapeutic range without significant cardiorespiratory effects. I.m administration of LZP may be more practical in rural healthcare facilities in Africa, where venous access may not be feasible.

UI  - 17631681
TI  - A comparative study on the efficacy of artesunate plus sulphadoxine/pyrimethamine versus artemether-lumefantrine in eastern Sudan.
AB  - Both AS/SP and AL are highly effective for the treatment of uncomplicated falciparum malaria in eastern Sudan. However, AS/SP appears to have a slightly higher efficacy than AL, this may be due to patient compliance with the repeated dose rather than drug efficacy.

UI  - 17620628
TI  - Combined molecular and clinical assessment of Plasmodium falciparum antimalarial drug resistance in the Lao People's Democratic Republic (Laos).
AB  - Molecular markers provide a rapid and relatively inexpensive approach for assessing antimalarial drug susceptibility. We collected 884 Plasmodium falciparum-infected blood samples from 17 Lao provinces. Each sample was genotyped for 11 codons in the chloroquine resistance transporter (pfcrt), dihydrofolate reductase (pfdhfr), and dihydropteroate synthase (pfdhps) genes. The samples included 227 collected from patients recruited to clinical trials. The pfcrt K76T mutation was an excellent predictor of treatment failure for both chloroquine and chloroquine plus sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine, and mutations in both pfdhfr and pfdhps were predictive of sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine treatment failure. In multivariate analysis, the presence of the pfdhfr triple mutation (51 + 59 + 108) was strongly and independently correlated with sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine failure (odds ratio = 9.1, 95% confidence interval = 1.4-60.2, P = 0.017). Considerable geographic heterogeneity in allele frequencies occurred at all three loci with lower frequencies of mutant alleles in southern than in northern Laos. These findings suggest that chloroquine and sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine are no longer viable therapy in this country.

UI  - 17605775
TI  - Self-reported use of anti-malarial drugs and health facility management of malaria in Ghana.
AB  - Prevalence of inappropriate use of anti-malarials in the community in Ghana is high. There is need for enhanced public health education on home-based management of malaria and training for workers in medicine supply outlets to ensure effective use of anti-malaria drugs in the country.

UI  - 17597461
TI  - Levamisole inhibits sequestration of infected red blood cells in patients with falciparum malaria.
AB  - Current Controlled Trials identifier: 15314870.

UI  - 17596256
TI  - Dramatically decreased therapeutic efficacy of chloroquine and sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine, but not mefloquine, in southern Benin.
AB  - Chloroquine should no longer be used to treat children presenting with Plasmodium falciparum malaria in Benin.

UI  - 17570973
TI  - Clinical efficacy of chloroquine versus artemether-lumefantrine for Plasmodium vivax treatment in Thailand.
AB  - Chloroquine remains the drug of choice for the treatment of vivax malaria in Thailand. Mixed infections of falciparum and vivax malaria are also common in South-East Asia. Laboratory confirmation of malaria species is not generally available. This study aimed to find alternative regimens for treating both malaria species by using falciparum antimalarial drugs. From June 2004 to May 2005, 98 patients with Plasmodium vivax were randomly treated with either artemether-lumefantrine (n = 47) or chloroquine (n = 51). Both treatments were followed by 15 mg of primaquine over 14 days. Adverse events and clinical and parasitological outcomes were recorded and revealed similar in both groups. The cure rate was 97.4% for the artemether-lumefantrine treated group and 100% for the chloroquine treated group. We concluded that the combination of artemether-lumefantrine and primaquine was well tolerated, as effective as chloroquine and primaquine, and can be an alternative regimen for treatment of vivax malaria especially in the event that a mixed infection of falciparum and vivax malaria could not be ruled out.

UI  - 17570848
TI  - Efficacy and tolerability of four antimalarial combinations in the treatment of uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in Senegal.
AB  - The four combinations are effective and well-tolerated.

UI  - 17568549
TI  - Efficacy of artesunate plus amodiaquine, artesunate plus sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine, and chloroquine plus sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine in patients with uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum in the Comoros Union.
AB  - Health policy makers in Comoros Union have considered a policy change recommending combination treatment to control malaria. We evaluated the efficacy of three antimalarial drug combinations, taken orally, to enable the authorities to make an evidence-based choice. The study was carried out in patients of 2-70 years old in Moroni, Moheli and Anjouan in 2003. We enrolled 168 patients with uncomplicated malaria from 1097 outpatients screened at the health centres. One hundred and fifty-eight patients, of whom half were under five years old, (mean age=11.1+/-13.9 years), were followed up for 14 days. According to PCR adjusted outcome, the therapeutic efficacy of artesunate+amodiaquine (AS+AQ) (n=54) and artesunate+sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine (AS+SP) (n=53) was 100%, whereas that of chloroquine+sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine (CQ+SP) was 98% (50/51). The key difference between these treatments was the higher parasite clearance rate on Day 2 obtained with artesunate-containing combinations (P<0.001). These results provide a baseline for monitoring changes in the susceptibility of Plasmodium falciparum to artesunate+amodiaquine and artesunate+sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine (ACTs) in the Comoros Union. Health policy changes involving the replacement of chloroquine in the Indian Ocean subregion are discussed.

UI  - 17562798
TI  - Resistance-mediating Plasmodium falciparum pfcrt and pfmdr1 alleles after treatment with artesunate-amodiaquine in Uganda.
AB  - Key parasite polymorphisms were assessed in subjects treated for malaria with artesunate-amodiaquine in Tororo, Uganda. For pfcrt, all of the isolates tested had the CVIET haplotype. For pfmdr1, 86Y and 1246Y were common at baseline and their prevalences were significantly higher in new isolates after therapy, indicating that treatment selected for mutations associated with a decreased response to amodiaquine.

UI  - 17553226
TI  - Minority-variant pfcrt K76T mutations and chloroquine resistance, Malawi.
AB  - Genotyping of the chloroquine-resistance biomarker pfcrt (Plasmodium falciparum chloroquine resistance transporter gene) suggests that, in the absence of chloroquine pressure, Plasmodium falciparum parasites in Malawi have reverted to chloroquine sensitivity. However, malaria infections in Africa are commonly polyclonal, and standard PCRs cannot detect minority genotypes if present in <20% of the parasites in an individual host. We have developed a multiple site-specific heteroduplex tracking assay (MSS-HTA) that can detect pfcrt 76T mutant parasites consisting of as little as 1% of the parasite population. In clinical samples, no pfcrt 76T was detected in 87 pregnant Malawian women by standard PCR. However, 22 (25%) contained minority-variant resistant genotypes detected by the MSS-HTA. These results were confirmed by subcloning and sequencing. This finding suggests that the chloroquine-resistant genotype remains common in Malawians and that PCR-undetectable drug-resistant genotypes may be present in disease-endemic populations. Surveillance for minority-variant drug resistant mutations may be useful in making antimalarial drug policy.

UI  - 17546902
TI  - Efficacy of chloroquine and sulfadoxine/pyrimethamine mono- and combined therapy against falciparum malaria in Sudan.
AB  - We assessed the efficacy of chloroquine and sulfadoxine/pyrimethamine monotherapy in several sentinel sites in northern Sudan and the efficacy of combined therapy in 2 sites. Chloroquine efficacy in children under 5 years was also assessed in 2 sites in southern Sudan. Patients with indications of uncomplicated falciparum malaria and sufficient parasite density were enrolled. The chloroquine failure rates in the northern and southern sites were 43.4% and 80.2% respectively. Treatment failure was significantly higher in children than adults, while there was no significant sex difference. Sulfadoxine/pyrimethamine had an overall failure rate of 4.4%. Combination of the 2 drugs had a failure rate of 14.5% and 5.9% in the 2 sites.

UI  - 17539268
TI  - Pharmacokinetics of mefloquine with dihydroartemisinin as 2-day regimens in patients with uncomplicated falciparum malaria.
AB  - The objective of this study was to investigate the pharmacokinetics of mefloquine (MQ) when given as 750 mg at two different times in combination regimens with dihydroartemisinin (DHA) in patients with acute uncomplicated falciparum malaria. A total of 12 Vietnamese patients (6 in each group) were randomized to receive two MQ-DHA regimens as follows: regimen-A: an initial oral dose of 300 mg DHA, followed by 750 mg MQ and 300 DHA 6 and 24 hours later; regimen-B: an initial dose of 300 mg DHA, followed by 300 mg DHA and 750 mg MQ at 24 hours. Both combination regimens were well tolerated. All patients responded well to treatment with no recrudescence during a 42 day follow-up period. The pharmacokinetics of MQ following both regimens were similar but pooled data from both groups suggest that the kinetics of MQ was different from that observed in Vietnamese healthy subjects reported in a previous study. The median (95% CI) time period for maintenance of whole blood MQ concentrations above 500 ng/ml was 16 (0-24) days. It was concluded that since no pharmacokinetic drug interaction was observed, MQ dose given 24 hours after an initial dose of DHA is a preferable combination treatment regimen with regard to patient compliance.

UI  - 17538894
TI  - Children in Burkina Faso who are protected by insecticide-treated materials are able to clear drug-resistant parasites better than unprotected children.
AB  - Our data suggest that the children who were protected from malaria by ITCs acquired functional immunity more rapidly than did the control children.

UI  - 17531088
TI  - Pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of fosmidomycin monotherapy and combination therapy with clindamycin in the treatment of multidrug resistant falciparum malaria.
AB  - Pharmacokinetic dose optimization of fosmidomycin-clindamycin combination therapy with the course of treatment of not longer than three days is required to obtain a regimen which is safe and produced 100% cure for multidrug-resistant P. falciparum.

UI  - 17526422
TI  - Intermittent preventive treatment of malaria in pregnancy: a community-based delivery system and its effect on parasitemia, anemia and low birth weight in Uganda.
AB  - The community-based approaches increased access and adherence to IPT with an effect on anemia, severe anemia, parasitemia and low birth weight. However the reduced effect of IPT on parasitemia points to drug resistance with SP and this requires further evaluation; research into the identification of other more efficacious drugs for malaria prevention in pregnancy is also required.

UI  - 17524243
TI  - Effect of artesunate plus sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine on haematological recovery and anaemia, in Kenyan children with uncomplicated, Plasmodium falciparum malaria.
AB  - Malaria-associated anaemia is a major public-health problem. Although the treatment of uncomplicated, Plasmodium falciparum malaria aims to clear the parasites, relieve the symptoms and permit haematological recovery, data on the impact of antimalarial treatment on haematological recovery are few. Haematological recovery and the prevalence of anaemia were therefore evaluated in 600 Kenyan children with uncomplicated malaria who were randomly assigned to one of three treatment groups. The children were given sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine (SP) on day 0, SP plus artesunate on day 0 (AS1), or SP on day 0 and artesunate on each of days 0-2 (AS3). Haemoglobin (Hb) concentrations were measured on days 0, 7, 14, 21 and 28, with haematological recovery defined as a day-28 Hb concentration of at least 11 g/dl. Only 96 (18%) of the 543 children who were anaemic (i.e. with <11.0 g Hb/dl) at enrolment achieved haematological recovery. The prevalence of anaemia fell from 91% on day 0 to 74% (252/340) by day 28 (P=0.065). Compared with SP alone, neither artesunate regimen resulted in higher Hb concentrations on day 28 (with means of 10.2, 9.9 and 10.2 g/dl for AS3, AS1 and SP, respectively; P=0.254), a higher frequency of haematological recovery (19%, 14% and 20% for AS3, AS1 and SP, respectively; P=0.301) or a greater reduction in the prevalence of anaemia (prevalences in the AS3, AS1 and SP arms falling from 90%, 89% and 93%, respectively, on day 0, to corresponding values of 71%, 82% and 69% on day 28; P=0.40). In fact, between days 0 and 7, the children in the AS3 arm showed a larger drop in mean Hb than the children in the other two treatment arms. In general, haematological recovery was most likely in older children who had mild anaemia at presentation and were parasitologically cured. Overall, the frequencies of haematological recovery were modest and not influenced by the artesunate treatments. Other factors contributing to anaemia need to be explored more fully.

UI  - 17519410
TI  - Combination therapy for uncomplicated falciparum malaria in Ugandan children: a randomized trial.
AB  - isrctn.org Identifier: ISRCTN37517549.

UI  - 17519409
TI  - Sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine, chlorproguanil-dapsone, or chloroquine for the treatment of Plasmodium vivax malaria in Afghanistan and Pakistan: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00158561.

UI  - 17519031
TI  - Acceptability and efficacy of intra-rectal quinine alkaloids as a pre-transfer treatment of non-per os malaria in peripheral health care facilities in Mopti, Mali.
AB  - IRQA was well accepted by children, their parents/guardians and by the health workers at peripheral health facilities in Mopti, Mali. There was also a quick recovery from deep coma and a reduced case fatality rate in severe malaria.

UI  - 17519010
TI  - Randomized clinical trial of artemisinin versus non-artemisinin combination therapy for uncomplicated falciparum malaria in Madagascar.
AB  - These findings show that the inexpensive and widely available combination AQ+SP may be valuable in for the treatment of uncomplicated malaria in Madagascar and could have an important role in this country, where much of the drugs administered go to patients who do not have malaria.

UI  - 17488903
TI  - The importance of the period of malarial infection during pregnancy on birth weight in tropical Africa.
AB  - Malaria in pregnant women is related to low birth weight (LBW), a factor contributing to infant mortality. Which period of infection during pregnancy leads to the most harmful consequences is unclear. We analyzed data collected in Burkina Faso for 1190 pregnant women. Birth weight was analyzed through multivariate linear and logistic regressions. Infection after 6 months of pregnancy was related to a decrease in mean birth weight (-105 g, P = 0.02) and a higher risk of low birth weight (AOR = 1.8, P = 0.02). A trend was found between infection before 4 months of pregnancy and a decrease in birth weight (-68 g, P = 0.08). This suggests that the end of pregnancy is the most important period in terms of public health, but infection at the beginning of pregnancy may also have consequences. Malaria prevention policies should be started early in pregnancy, especially by implementing the systematic use of insecticide-treated nets.

UI  - 17488902
TI  - Plasmodium falciparum genotypes associated with chloroquine and amodiaquine resistance in Guinea-Bissau.
AB  - Chloroquine is the most commonly used antimalarial in Guinea-Bissau and high doses are routinely prescribed. Blood from 497 patients treated with different doses of chloroquine or amodiaquine were genotyped. Pfcrt and pfmdr1 polymorphisms were identified. Pfmsp2 analysis identified recrudescent infections. The pfcrt 72-76 haplotypes were CVIET and CVMNK. The pfcrt 76T prevalence was 23% at day 0 and 96%, 83% and 100% at recrudescence following treatment with 25 mg/kg and 50 mg/kg of chloroquine and 15 mg/kg of amodiaquine respectively. When treating pfcrt 76T carrying P. falciparum the efficacy of 50 mg/kg and 25 mg/kg of chloroquine was 78% and 34% respectively (P = 0.007). The genetic basis of chloroquine resistance is probably the same in Guinea-Bissau as in the rest of Africa. The low pfcrt 76T prevalence suggests that resistance to normal dose chloroquine does not confer a major advantage to falciparum in Bissau and could be a result of treatment with high-dose chloroquine.

UI  - 17477865
TI  - Efficacy of antimalarial treatment in Guinea: in vivo study of two artemisinin combination therapies in Dabola and molecular markers of resistance to sulphadoxine-pyrimethamine in N'Zrkor.
AB  - Both AS/AQ and AS/SP are highly efficacious in Dabola, whereas there is molecular evidence of established SP resistance in Laine. This supports the choice of the national programme of Guinea to adopt AS/AQ as first line antimalarial treatment. The results highlight the difficulties faced by control programmes, which have gone through the upheaval of implementing ACTs, but cannot predict how long their therapeutic life will be, especially in countries which have chosen drugs also available as monotherapies.

UI  - 17469728
TI  - Comparative study of the effectiveness and pharmacokinetics of two rectal artesunate/oral mefloquine combination regimens for the treatment of uncomplicated childhood falciparum malaria.
AB  - A regimen of rectal artesunate 10 mg/kg/day for 3 days followed by mefloquine 25 mg/kg is optimal for the treatment of uncomplicated falciparum malaria. There was no definite benefit from increasing the dosage of rectal artesunate from 10 to 20 mg/kg/day.
