
UI  - 24685971
TI  - Double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover study of early-intervention with sumatriptan 85/naproxen sodium 500 in (truly) episodic migraine: what's neck pain got to do with it?
AB  - Our study results support a fundamental re-evaluation of the role of neck pain in migraine.

UI  - 24523483
TI  - Randomized trial of IV valproate vs metoclopramide vs ketorolac for acute migraine.
AB  - This study provides Class I evidence that in ED patients with acute migraine, IV valproate is inferior to metoclopramide or ketorolac in improving headache outcomes.

UI  - 24450487
TI  - Extended cycle combined oral contraceptives and prophylactic frovatriptan during the hormone-free interval in women with menstrual-related migraines.
AB  - Extended combined oral contraceptive regimen reduces MRM severity. Frovatriptan prevents headaches during HFIs, but is associated with new headache symptoms when withdrawn.

UI  - 24368463
TI  - Cognitive behavioral therapy plus amitriptyline for chronic migraine in children and adolescents: a randomized clinical trial.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00389038.

UI  - 24330707
TI  - Frovatriptan and rizatriptan economic EVAluation: the FREEVA study.
AB  - 2006-002572-17 (EudraCT).

UI  - 24201237
TI  - Levetiracetam in migraine prophylaxis: a randomized placebo-controlled study in a rural medical institute in northern India.
AB  - Compared with the placebo group, LEV offers improvement in headache frequency and severity as well as it lowers the requirement for other symptomatic drugs in adult migraine patients.

UI  - 24182419
TI  - Promethazine plus sumatriptan in the treatment of migraine: a randomized clinical trial.
AB  - This is the first prospective clinical trial to demonstrate that multimechanism therapy for migraine, combining a triptan and an antiemetic agent, is well tolerated and offers improved clinical benefits compared with monotherapy.

UI  - 24171182
TI  - Treatment of comorbid migraine and temporomandibular disorders: a factorial, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled study.
AB  - In women with TMD and migraine, migraine significantly improved only when both conditions were treated. The best treatment choice for TMD pain in women with migraine is yet to be defined.

UI  - 24107267
TI  - OnabotulinumtoxinA for chronic migraine: efficacy, safety, and tolerability in patients who received all five treatment cycles in the PREEMPT clinical program.
AB  - This subgroup analysis demonstrated improvements with onabotulinumtoxinA treatment (five cycles) vs placebo (two cycles)/onabotulinumtoxinA (three cycles) for multiple headache symptom measures and suggests that at Week 56, patients treated earlier with onabotulinumtoxinA had better outcomes. These findings demonstrate the continued need and cumulative benefit over time with continued prophylaxis, an important and clinically pragmatic observation for clinicians and patients.

UI  - 24081889
TI  - [A comparative study of the effectiveness of topiramate and flunarizine in independent series of chronic migraine patients without medication abuse].
AB  - Flunarizine proved to be as effective as topiramate in the treatment of chronic migraine without medication abuse.

UI  - 24021029
TI  - SumaRT/Nap vs naproxen sodium in treatment and disease modification of migraine: a pilot study.
AB  - Naproxen sodium, when used as a sole acute treatment early in attacks, appears to reduce the frequency of headache days and migraine attacks for a select number of subjects over a 3-month period. SumaRT/Nap is more effective at 2-hour headache reduction than naproxen sodium alone, but has less impact on reducing attack frequency or the number of headache days. Both treatments were well tolerated, and there was no convincing evidence that either medication led to MOH.

UI  - 24020994
TI  - Treatment of chronic migraine: a 3-month comparator study of naproxen sodium vs SumaRT/Nap.
AB  - A combination of SumaRT/Nap (group A) did not appear to reduce migraine headache frequency over a 3-month period. Subjects using naproxen sodium (group B) alone and completing the study per protocol had a marked statistically significant reduction in migraine headache days. Both groups completing the study per protocol had experienced clinically meaningful 2-hour headache relief. This suggests there may be a subset of patients with chronic migraine that are responsive to high doses of naproxen as an acute intervention with a significant prophylactic benefit. Subjects randomized to SumaRT/Nap experience benefit, primarily as an acute intervention. This hypothesis may warrant future larger scale clinical trials. Frequent dosing of SumaRT/Nap or naproxen sodium was well tolerated in this study.

UI  - 23992516
TI  - Impact of NSAID and Triptan use on developing chronic migraine: results from the American Migraine Prevalence and Prevention (AMPP) study.
AB  - Triptan use in EM is associated with an increased risk of CM onset that increases with days of medication use. For NSAIDs, effects depend on headache days per month. NSAIDs are protective in individuals with less than 10 headache days per month but associated with increased risk with 10 or more headache days per month. Combining a triptan and NSAID was not associated with a statistically significant increased risk of CM onset, whereas increased risk of CM onset was significantly associated with triptan monotherapy.

UI  - 23975906
TI  - In vivo quantification of calcitonin gene-related peptide receptor occupancy by telcagepant in rhesus monkey and human brain using the positron emission tomography tracer [11C]MK-4232.
AB  - Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) is a potent neuropeptide whose agonist interaction with the CGRP receptor (CGRP-R) in the periphery promotes vasodilation, neurogenic inflammation and trigeminovascular sensory activation. This process is implicated in the cause of migraine headaches, and CGRP-R antagonists in clinical development have proven effective in treating migraine-related pain in humans. CGRP-R is expressed on blood vessel smooth muscle and sensory trigeminal neurons and fibers in the periphery as well as in the central nervous system. However, it is not clear what role the inhibition of central CGRP-R plays in migraine pain relief. To this end, the CGRP-R positron emission tomography (PET) tracer [(11)C]MK-4232 (2-[(8R)-8-(3,5-difluorophenyl)-6,8-[6-(11)C]dimethyl-10-oxo-6,9-diazaspiro[4.5]decan-9-yl]-N-[(2R)-2'-oxospiro[1,3-dihydroindene-2,3'-1H-pyrrolo[2,3-b]pyridine]-5-yl]acetamide) was discovered and developed for use in clinical PET studies. In rhesus monkeys and humans, [(11)C]MK-4232 displayed rapid brain uptake and a regional brain distribution consistent with the known distribution of CGRP-R. Monkey PET studies with [(11)C]MK-4232 after intravenous dosing with CGRP-R antagonists validated the ability of [(11)C]MK-4232 to detect changes in CGRP-R occupancy in proportion to drug plasma concentration. Application of [(11)C]MK-4232 in human PET studies revealed that telcagepant achieved only low receptor occupancy at an efficacious dose (140 mg PO). Therefore, it is unlikely that antagonism of central CGRP-R is required for migraine efficacy. However, it is not known whether high central CGRP-R antagonism may provide additional therapeutic benefit.

UI  - 23926420
TI  - Assessing acute systemic effects of an inhaled drug with serial echocardiography: a placebo-controlled comparison of inhaled and intravenous dihydroergotamine.
AB  - These results indicate the effects 1 mg of orally inhaled DHE on the cardiovascular system are less than with 1 mg of IV DHE, and that serial echocardiography can be a useful noninvasive means of assessing acute systemic effects.

UI  - 23808927
TI  - Migraine management in community pharmacies: practice patterns and knowledge of pharmacy personnel in Thailand.
AB  - A large number of community pharmacists and non-pharmacist staff had inappropriate practice behavior and understanding. Continuing education and interventions are important to improve the practice and knowledge of pharmacy personnel, particularly the pharmacists.

UI  - 23798725
TI  - Lack of hemodynamic interaction between CGRP-receptor antagonist telcagepant (MK-0974) and sumatriptan: results from a randomized study in patients with migraine.
AB  - Telcagepant does not elevate mean MAP, and coadministration of telcagepant with sumatriptan results in elevations in MAP similar to those observed following administration of sumatriptan alone in migraineurs during the interictal period. When coadministered, telcagepant slightly increases the plasma levels of sumatriptan, but without an apparent clinically meaningful effect.

UI  - 23773016
TI  - A cross-sectional survey to assess the migraineur's medication decision-making beliefs: determining when a migraine is triptan-worthy.
AB  - Results build upon previously published studies and suggest that patient beliefs directly influence how migraineurs manage their migraines and have implications for patient outcomes. Such insights should be used to facilitate physician-patient communication and reinforce the need for patient-centered care to improve patient outcomes.

UI  - 23695075
TI  - Frovatriptan plus dexketoprofen in the treatment of menstrually related migraine: an open study.
AB  - At least 50 % of female migraineurs experience migraine associated with the perimenstrual period, even though they may also suffer from attacks at other times of the cycle (menstrually related migraine, MRM). MRM attacks tend to be longer and more intense than those arising in other phases of the menstrual cycle, and are often aggravated by more pronounced vegetative phenomena. In this open preliminary trial, we tested the efficacy of associating frovatriptan and dexketoprofen for the treatment of an acute attack of MRM, diagnosed according to the criteria of the International Headache Society, in 24 patients between 19 and 45 years of age (mean 31.33  7.33). Twenty-one of them completed the study. Pain relief was achieved by 76 % of patients at 2 h and by 86 % at 4 h. A pain-free state was achieved by 48 % at 2 h and by 62 % at 4 h from taking the product. A pain-free state at 24 h was present in 76 % of MRM sufferers, 33 % of whom showed a sustained pain-free state at 24 h. A rescue medication was needed by eight patients. While decidedly encouraging, the data of this study obviously need confirmation with double blind studies involving a greater number of patients.

UI  - 23695074
TI  - Outcome of patients with chronic migraine with medication overuse and depression after duloxetine: influence of coexisting obsessive compulsive disorder.
AB  - Patients with chronic migraine (CM) and medication overuse (MO) have high frequency of psychiatric comorbidity. Aims of this open label, prospective, independent study were: to evaluate the efficacy of duloxetine in a sample of patients with MO due to CM and with concomitant depression; to investigate, if the presence of OCD influences the outcome in this subgroup of patients. A total of 50 consecutive patients (40 F,10 M, aged 20-65 years, mean 39.4 years) from those attending our Headache Center to undergo an inpatient withdrawal programme followed by anti-migraine prophylaxis was enrolled. After a 1-month baseline period, all patients were prescribed duloxetine 30 mg in the morning for the first week, and 60 mg for the following 12 weeks. They filled a daily headache diary during the whole study period. They also completed Hamilton depression rating scale (HDRS) and migraine disability assessment scale (MIDAS) at baseline and at the 12-week follow-up. The primary outcome measure was the percentage of responders, i.e. of patients with a reduction 50 % in headache frequency as well as in symptomatic drug consumption. Comparison between patients with and without OCD was performed. Our results showed a rather high responder rate in the total sample (64 %), while none of the patients with OCD fell among responders. MIDAS and HDRS scores had a more evident decrease in patients without OSD. These findings suggest that duloxetine may be effective in patients with MO due to CM and with comorbid depression. They also confirm the importance of a systematic assessment of the psychopathological profile in these patients, and indicate that clinicians should be aware of the relevant prognostic role of OCD in favoring a poor outcome and persistent disability in headache patients with MO.

UI  - 23695072
TI  - Day-hospital withdrawal for chronic migraine with medication overuse: results at 3 years follow-up.
AB  - Patients with chronic headache and medication overuse are particularly difficult to treat, with no one approach being universally accepted. Some type of withdrawal program, however, is typically implemented before beginning a pharmacological prophylaxis treatment. Different withdrawal modalities have been performed for managing these patients: at first step, in-patient withdrawal has been confirmed effective in preceding clinical experiences. In recent years, new modalities for withdrawal have been developed as day-hospital setting. Purpose of this study was to determine the clinical course of a sample of chronic migraine patients with medication overuse 3 years after day-hospital withdrawal. A group of 202 patients were treated. Patients were suffering from chronic migraine with medication overuse according with IHS criteria. All patients were submitted to a day-hospital withdrawal and then they were followed with meetings every 3 months until the first year and then every 6 months until the last follow-up 3 years after withdrawal. Eighty patients achieved the last follow-up meeting 3 years after withdrawal. Patients clinically improved, significantly, both for days of headache per month and consumption of medications per month. From these results, the day-hospital setting for withdrawal, followed by periodic clinical meetings, seems to be effective for this category of patients to improve significantly at long-term headache frequency and analgesics intake.

UI  - 23695070
TI  - The efficacy of ginkgolide B in the acute treatment of migraine aura: an open preliminary trial.
AB  - In this open trial we evaluated the possible efficacy of Ginkgolide B in the treatment of acute aura in a group of patients suffering from migraine with aura, considering in particular the effect of the treatment on aura duration. Twenty-five patients (16 females, 9 males, mean age 39.7  13.5 years, range 18-65) suffering from migraine with aura were enrolled in the study. The diagnosis was made according to the diagnostic criteria of the international classification of headache disorders, second edition (ICHD-II), for typical aura with migraine headache (n = 19) or typical aura without headache (n = 6). Patients were asked to use a diary card to register the exact duration of the aura symptoms in two consecutive attacks of aura. In the first one, they only took note of the duration of neurological symptoms in minutes. In the following attack, they were instructed to take orally, immediately at the onset of the first symptoms of aura, two capsules of a combination of 60 mg Ginkgo biloba terpenes phytosome, 11 mg coenzyme Q 10 and 8.7 mg vitamin B2 (Migrasoll). Aura duration (expressed in minutes) was significantly (p < 0.001) reduced by Migrasoll intake, being 33.6  11.5 in the first untreated attack and 21.9  11.8 during the second attack. In general, there was a marked amelioration of the features of the neurological symptoms of aura in the treated attack. In four patients (18.1 %) suffering from typical aura with migraine, the pain phase disappeared. Among the patients who completed the study no serious adverse events were reported.

UI  - 23695040
TI  - Onabotulinum toxin A for treatment of chronic migraine with medication overuse.
AB  - Chronic migraine is a common and debilitating headache syndrome. Botulinum neurotoxin (BoNT), a potent toxin produced by the anaerobic bacterium Clostridium botulinum, used largely for treatment of disorders associated with increased muscle tone and hyperidrosis, has been recently used for patients suffering from chronic migraine. In this study, two groups of patients were treated with different dosages of BoNT A to verify the efficacy for chronic migraine. The results confirmed the efficacy of BoNT A when used at the dosage of 150 U. In the second group of patients treated with 100 U, results were not significant. Although these results are preliminary, they led to intense efforts to evaluate the analgesic properties of BoNT A and to assess their clinical applicability.

UI  - 23657930
TI  - Comparison between the efficacy of ginger and sumatriptan in the ablative treatment of the common migraine.
AB  - Frequency and torment caused by migraines direct patients toward a variety of remedies. Few studies to date have proposed ginger derivates for migraine relief. This study aims to evaluate the efficacy of ginger in the ablation of common migraine attack in comparison to sumatriptan therapy. In this double-blinded randomized clinical trial, 100 patients who had acute migraine without aura were randomly allocated to receive either ginger powder or sumatriptan. Time of headache onset, its severity, time interval from headache beginning to taking drug and patient self-estimation about response for five subsequent migraine attacks were recorded by patients. Patients(,) satisfaction from treatment efficacy and their willingness to continue it was also evaluated after 1month following intervention. Two hours after using either drug, mean headaches severity decreased significantly. Efficacy of ginger powder and sumatriptan was similar. Clinical adverse effects of ginger powder were less than sumatriptan. Patients' satisfaction and willingness to continue did not differ. The effectiveness of ginger powder in the treatment of common migraine attacks is statistically comparable to sumatriptan. Ginger also poses a better side effect profile than sumatriptan.

UI  - 23639189
TI  - Lippia alba (Mill.) N. E. Brown hydroethanolic extract of the leaves is effective in the treatment of migraine in women.
AB  - Treatment with L. alba leaves (geranial-carvenone) hydroethanolic extract is a cheap, safe, widely available, highly effective therapy to reduce both the intensity and the frequency of headache episodes of women with migraine. ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT01259947.

UI  - 23586686
TI  - Intravenous topiramate: safety and pharmacokinetics following a single dose in patients with epilepsy or migraines taking oral topiramate.
AB  - A single 25-mg dose of intravenous topiramate caused minimal infusion site or systemic adverse effects in patients taking oral topiramate. Pharmacokinetic results show that oral topiramate is completely absorbed and that its steady-state elimination half-life is longer than previously assumed, which permits once or twice daily dosing even in the presence of enzyme-inducing drugs. The information from this study can inform the design of subsequent studies in adults, older children, and newborns, including controlled clinical trials intended to determine the efficacy and safety of intravenous topiramate for neonatal seizures.

UI  - 23566208
TI  - Topiramate modulates habituation in migraine: evidences from nociceptive responses elicited by laser evoked potentials.
AB  - Our results indicate a modulating action of topiramate on cortical processing of sensorial stimuli, mainly regarding the sensory-discriminative component of pain, elaborated by SII, without a significant effect on the affective dimension of pain, in which the ACC has an important role.

UI  - 23514092
TI  - Efficacy endpoints in migraine clinical trials: the importance of assessing freedom from pain.
AB  - Many efficacy endpoints have been used in clinical trials of acute migraine pharmacotherapy. Headache response or headache relief (i.e., moderate/severe pain reduced to mild/no pain) at a single, specified time-point, traditionally the primary endpoint, and headache recurrence (i.e., return of pain after initial postdose relief) are inadequate. Headache relief does not provide information about pain-free response and counts a partial response as a treatment success. Headache recurrence can reflect sustained efficacy but is confounded by initial response to treatment, because ineffective drugs have low recurrence rates. The International Headache Society (IHS) guidelines state that 2 hour pain-free response and sustained pain-free response (i.e., freedom from pain with no recurrence or use of rescue or study medication 2-24 hours postdose) provide the most clinically relevant information about the efficacy of migraine pharmacotherapy. The pain-free criterion counts partial responses as failures and thus is a more rigorous test of therapeutic benefit than headache relief, and the two endpoints together incorporate the main treatment attributes that determine patient satisfaction. As an example, consider needle-free subcutaneous sumatriptan and oral triptan tablets. An open-label study of needle-free subcutaneous sumatriptan by Cady and colleagues found that 2 hour pain-free response and sustained pain-free response were 64% and 42% respectively. For oral triptan tablets, the 2001 metaanalysis by Ferrari and colleagues reported 2 hour pain-free response rates ranging from 23% to 38% and sustained pain-free response rates ranging from 11% to 26%. The measures of pain-free response 2 hours postdose and sustained pain-free response can differentiate among treatments and be used to guide therapeutic choices.

UI  - 23489216
TI  - Ictal adiponectin levels in episodic migraineurs: a randomized pilot trial.
AB  - In this pilot study of women episodic migraineurs, the HMW:LMW ADP ratio level was associated with migraine severity and predictive of acute treatment response. ADP and the HMW:LMW ratio of ADP represent potential novel biomarkers and drug targets for episodic migraine.

UI  - 23406052
TI  - Evaluation of sumatriptan-naproxen in the treatment of acute migraine: a placebo-controlled, double-blind, cross-over study assessing cognitive function.
AB  - There is a significant decline in global cognitive efficiency at the onset of an attack of migraine. The use of Treximet allows a significantly faster recovery time in some measures of cognitive efficiency compared with placebo. Decline of cognitive efficiency may be independent of headache severity.

UI  - 23380105
TI  - A randomized open-label study of sodium valproate vs sumatriptan and metoclopramide for prolonged migraine headache.
AB  - Treatment with iVPA was more effective than metoclopramide + SQ sumatriptan during the first 2 hours in patients with a prolonged migraine.

UI  - 23365053
TI  - A randomized controlled trial of intranasal ketamine in migraine with prolonged aura.
AB  - This study provides class III evidence that intranasal ketamine is effective in reducing aura severity in patients with migraine with prolonged aura.

UI  - 23359075
TI  - [Triptans in clinical practice: effectiveness, tolerance and patient's satisfaction with medication (TRIPRACLI study)].
AB  - In this selected group of patients, triptans are a treatment that patients claim to be very satisfied with. Although there are no overall differences in the scores among different triptans, the fact that certain triptans are used more by patients after previous experiences with others suggests that they are more effective. We did not find any parameter that predicts the use of a particular triptan.

UI  - 23159967
TI  - The effect of Helicobacter pylori eradication on migraine: a randomized, double blind, controlled trial.
AB  - H. pylori eradication may have a beneficial role on migraine headache. This shows the significance of H. pylori treatment in the management of migraine headache among Iranian patients.

UI  - 23148799
TI  - An open-label trial of a sumatriptan auto-injector for migraine in patients currently treated with subcutaneous sumatriptan.
AB  - The majority of injection-experienced patients reported the pre-assembled, single-use sumatriptan auto-injector to be an easy-to-use, preferred treatment for an acute migraine attack. The study found the auto-injector to be safe and well tolerated, with levels of injection site reactions that were mild and infrequent.

UI  - 23121272
TI  - Efficacy, end points and eventualities: sumatriptan/naproxen versus butalbital/paracetamol/caffeine in the treatment of migraine.
AB  - Migraine is a widespread, relapsing, remittent syndrome. No animal model predicts whether test medications will be clinically useful. Using a modern, well-controlled, sophisticated study design, Derosier et al. demonstrates not only that a butalbital formulation has modest efficacy as an acute treatment for migraine but also that a sumatriptan-naproxen combination is superior. These conclusions are reached using a variety of internally consistent secondary efficacy end points. The primary end point chosen (highly conservative and fashionable in some academic circles) was a technical failure (and not a negative experimental finding). Migraine is intrinsically pleiomorphic: diverse treatment options help match patient with therapy. This study does not justify blanket bans on (admittedly hazardous) barbiturate therapies, and regulators should not impose end point conservatism to an extent that will stifle further progress.

UI  - 23078588
TI  - Long-term open-label safety study of rizatriptan acute treatment in pediatric migraineurs.
AB  - Rizatriptan was generally safe and well tolerated in the long-term acute treatment of migraine in pediatric patients aged 12-17 years and demonstrated a consistent treatment effect over time.

UI  - 23054063
TI  - Comparison of tolerability and efficacy of a combination of paracetamol + caffeine and sumatriptan in the treatment of migraine attack: a randomized, double-blind, double-dummy, cross-over study.
AB  - In this study, we compared the efficacy and tolerability of the combination of paracetamol 1,000 mg + caffeine 130 mg (PCF) with sumatriptan 50 mg (SUM) in migraine attacks. This was a multi-center randomized double-blind, double-dummy, cross-over controlled trial. The efficacy was assessed by the sum of pain intensity differences, the curve of mean pain intensity, the number of pain free at 2 h, and the total pain relief. Tolerability was assessed by recording adverse events within 4 h after drug assumption and evaluating the global judgement of patients. The comparison of these parameters did not show differences between the two drugs which resulted absolutely overlapping in pain relief and patients evaluation. In conclusion, we confirm the efficacy and safety of PCF such as SUM in the treatment of migraine attacks.

UI  - 23020264
TI  - Effectiveness of intravenous dexamethasone versus propofol for pain relief in the migraine headache: a prospective double blind randomized clinical trial.
AB  - Clinical Trials IRCT201008122496N4.

UI  - 22994458
TI  - A randomized controlled trial of a comprehensive migraine intervention prior to discharge from an emergency department.
AB  - A comprehensive migraine intervention, when compared to typical care, did not improve HIT-6 scores (a validated measure of the effect of migraine on one's daily life) 1month after ED discharge. Future work is needed to define a migraine intervention that is practical and useful in an ED, where many underserved patients, of necessity, present for care.

UI  - 22978244
TI  - Homeopathic treatment of migraine in children: results of a prospective, multicenter, observational study.
AB  - The results of this study demonstrate the interest of homeopathic medicines for the prevention and treatment of migraine attacks in children. A significant decrease in the frequency, severity, and duration of migraine attacks was observed and, consequently, reduced absenteeism from school.

UI  - 22961605
TI  - The combined effect of acupuncture and Tanacetum parthenium on quality of life in women with headache: randomised study.
AB  - The present work shows an improvement of the quality of life and better analgesic effect of acupuncture combined with TAN treatment on migraine pain in women when compared with acupuncture or TAN alone.

UI  - 22926161
TI  - Genotypes of the MTHFR C677T and MTRR A66G genes act independently to reduce migraine disability in response to vitamin supplementation.
AB  - This provided further evidence that vitamin supplementation is effective in reducing migraine and also that both MTHFR and MTRR gene variants are acting independently to influence treatment response in female migraineurs.

UI  - 22791378
TI  - Use of Vitex agnus-castus in migrainous women with premenstrual syndrome: an open-label clinical observation.
AB  - Premenstrual syndrome (PMS) affects most women during their reproductive life. Headache is regarded as a typical symptom of PMS and, close to menses, migrainous women could experience their worst migraine attacks. Vitex agnus-castus (VAC) is a phytopharmaceutical compound, considered worldwide to be a valid tool to treat PMS. Aim of this study is to explore if headache is ameliorate in migrainous women treated with VAC for PMS by an open-label clinical observation. Migrainous women with PMS were enrolled in the study and advised to assume a treatment with VAC (40mg/day) for PMS for a 3-month period. Effects both on PMS and headache were assessed. Out of 107 women, 100 completed the 3-month treatment for PMS. Out of them, 66 women reported a dramatic reduction of PMS symptoms, 26 a mild reduction, and 8 no effect. Concerning migraine, 42% of patients experienced a reduction higher than 50% in frequency of monthly attacks, and 57% of patients experienced a reduction higher than 50% in monthly days with headache. No patients reported remarkable side effects. Pending a placebo-controlled trial to confirm our results, we observed that the use of VAC in migrainous women affected by PMS resulted to be safe and well tolerated, and may positively influence the frequency and duration of migraine attacks.

UI  - 22730906
TI  - Efficacy and safety of 400 and 800 mg etodolac vs. 1,000 mg paracetamol in acute treatment of migraine: a randomized, double-blind, crossover, multicenter, phase III clinical trial.
AB  - Our study showed that etodolac is a safe and effective alternative in acute migraine treatment and showed comparable efficacy to paracetamol 1,000 mg. Etodolac may be considered as an alternative option for acute treatment of migraine.

UI  - 22711898
TI  - Efficacy and tolerability of rizatriptan in pediatric migraineurs: results from a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial using a novel adaptive enrichment design.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT01001234.

UI  - 22711895
TI  - Intranasal ketorolac tromethamine (SPRIX(R)) containing 6% of lidocaine (ROX-828) for acute treatment of migraine: safety and efficacy data from a phase II clinical trial.
AB  - Self-administered intranasal ROX-828 was well tolerated. While the primary endpoint was not met, the results provide preliminary evidence that ROX-828 improves migraine pain.

UI  - 22694484
TI  - A sumatriptan iontophoretic transdermal system for the acute treatment of migraine.
AB  - The sumatriptan iontophoretic transdermal system is effective and well tolerated, and may be particularly useful in patients with migraine-related gastrointestinal symptoms such as nausea.

UI  - 22644174
TI  - Efficacy of frovatriptan versus other triptans in the acute treatment of menstrual migraine: pooled analysis of three double-blind, randomized, crossover, multicenter studies.
AB  - The objective of this study was to review the efficacy and safety of frovatriptan (F) versus rizatriptan (R), zolmitriptan (Z) and almotriptan (A), in women with menstrually related migraine (IHS criteria) through a pooled analysis of three individual studies. Subjects with a history of migraine with or without aura were randomized to F 2.5 mg or R 10 mg (study 1), F or Z 2.5 mg (study 2), and F or A 12.5 mg (study 3). The studies had an identical multicenter, randomized, double-blind, crossover design. After treating three episodes of migraine in no more than 3 months with the first treatment, patients had to switch to the next treatment for other 3 months. 346 subjects formed intention-to-treat population of the main study; 280 of them were of a female gender, 256 had regular menses and 187 were included in the menstrual migraine subgroup analysis. Rate of pain free at 2, 4 and 24 h was 23, 52 and 67 % with F and 30, 61 and 66 % with comparators (P = NS). Pain relief episodes at 2, 4 and 24 h were 37, 60 and 66 % for F and 43, 55 and 61 % for comparators (P = NS). Rate of recurrence was significantly (P < 0.05) lower under F either at 24 h (11 vs. 24 % comparators) or at 48 h (15 vs. 26 % comparators). Number of menstrual migraine attacks associated with drug-related adverse events was equally low (P = NS) between F (5 %) and comparators (4 %).

UI  - 22644173
TI  - Frovatriptan versus zolmitriptan for the acute treatment of migraine with aura: a subgroup analysis of a double-blind, randomized, multicenter, Italian study.
AB  - Migraine with aura affects ~20-30 % of migraineurs and it is much less common than migraine without aura. The aim of this study was to compare the efficacy of frovatriptan 2.5 mg and zolmitriptan 2.5 mg in the treatment of migraine with aura. Analysis was carried out in a subset of 18 subjects with migraine with aura (HIS criteria) out of the 107 enrolled in a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, cross-over study. According to the study design, each patient had to treat three episodes of migraine in no more than 3 months with one drug, before switching to the other treatment. The rate of pain-free episodes at 2 h was significantly (p < 0.05) larger under frovatriptan (45.8 %) than under zolmitriptan (16.7 %). Pain free at 4 h, pain relief at 2 and 4 h and recurrent episodes were similar between the two treatments, while sustained pain-free episode was significantly (p < 0.05) more frequent during frovatriptan treatment (33.3 vs. 8.3 % zolmitriptan). Our study suggests that frovatriptan is superior to zolmitriptan in the immediate treatment of patients with migraine with aura, and it is capable of maintaining its acute analgesic effect over 48 h.

UI  - 22607530
TI  - Concurrent onabotulinumtoxinA treatment of cervical dystonia and concomitant migraine.
AB  - Concurrent treatment with onabotulinumtoxinA is effective and well tolerated in controlling the symptoms of cervical dystonia complicated by concurrent migraine.

UI  - 22592864
TI  - Frovatriptan versus almotriptan for acute treatment of menstrual migraine: analysis of a double-blind, randomized, cross-over, multicenter, Italian, comparative study.
AB  - The objective of the study was to compare the efficacy and safety of frovatriptan and almotriptan in women with menstrually related migraine (IHS Classification of Headache disorders) enrolled in a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, cross-over study. Patients received frovatriptan 2.5mg or almotriptan 12.5mg in a randomized sequence: after treating 3 episodes of migraine in no more than 3months with the first treatment, the patient was switched to the other treatment. 67 of the 96 female patients of the intention-to-treat population of the main study had regular menstrual cycles and were thus included in this subgroup analysis. 77 migraine attacks classified as related to menses were treated with frovatriptan and 78 with almotriptan. Rate of pain relief at 2 and 4h was 36 and 53% for frovatriptan and 41 and 50% for almotriptan (p=NS between treatments). Rate of pain free at 2 and 4h was 19 and 47% with frovatriptan and 29 and 54% for almotriptan (p=NS). At 24h, 62% of frovatriptan-treated and 67% of almotriptan-treated patients had pain relief, while 60 versus 67% were pain free (p=NS). Recurrence at 24h was significantly (p<0.05) lower with frovatriptan (8 vs. 21% almotriptan). This was the case also at 48h (9 vs. 24%, p<0.05). Frovatriptan was as effective as almotriptan in the immediate treatment of menstrually related migraine attacks. However, it showed a more favorable sustained effect, as shown by a lower rate of migraine recurrence.

UI  - 22585767
TI  - Randomized trial of sumatriptan and naproxen sodium combination in adolescent migraine.
AB  - All doses of suma/nap were well tolerated, providing similarly effective acute treatment of adolescent migraine pain and associated symptoms, as compared with placebo.

UI  - 22568456
TI  - Stability, responsiveness, and reproducibility of a visual analog scale for treatment satisfaction in migraine.
AB  - The VAS scale described here is a responsive and easy-to-use tool for evaluating treatment satisfaction and for monitoring changes to treatment if these are required.

UI  - 22517298
TI  - Lavender essential oil in the treatment of migraine headache: a placebo-controlled clinical trial.
AB  - The present study suggests that inhalation of lavender essential oil may be an effective and safe treatment modality in acute management of migraine headaches.

UI  - 22506628
TI  - Comparison of expected outcomes between patients and neurologists using Kano's methodology in symptomatic migraine treatment.
AB  - Kano's methodology is a useful tool to analyze differences in migraine treatment expectations among patients and neurologists. The main difference between patients and neurologists related to basic priorities. Therefore, when selecting treatment for migraine, physicians should invite the patient to participate in the decision making of which treatment is more appropriate.

UI  - 22460943
TI  - Rizatriptan in migraineurs with unilateral cranial autonomic symptoms: a double-blind trial.
AB  - The objective and background is to confirm in a double-blind, placebo-controlled study the high triptan response rates we had previously reported in an open study in migraine patients with unilateral cranial autonomic symptoms. In this randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study 80 migraineurs with unilateral cranial autonomic symptoms were assigned to receive rizatriptan 10mg wafer or placebo (ratio 1:1) and treated for a single moderate or severe migraine attack. The primary endpoints were pain freedom at 2h and total migraine freedom at 2h. Secondary endpoints included pain relief, no associated symptoms and sustained pain freedom or relief. Significantly more patients reported pain freedom at 2h after taking rizatriptan (54%) than after placebo (8%) (therapeutic gain 46% [28%; 64%]; P<0.001). Similarly, significantly more patients reported total migraine freedom at 2h after rizatriptan (51%) than after placebo (8%) (therapeutic gain 43% [26%; 61%]; P<0.001). Rizatriptan was also more effective than placebo on most secondary endpoints. We confirm in a placebo-controlled study our previous data suggesting that the presence of unilateral cranial autonomic symptoms in migraineurs predicts a positive response to triptans, probably owing to intense trigeminal peripheral afferent activation which strongly recruits peripheral neurovascular 5-HT1B/1D receptors. Acute and preventive pharmacological trials in migraine should focus also on this subset of migraine patients.

UI  - 22435741
TI  - Oral sumatriptan and almotriptan--delimiting the MAOI effect.
AB  - A model for oral sumatriptan pharmacokinetics can be found using the differential calculus, and it is generalizable to oral almotriptan. The model suggests that an MAOI-A probably has greater effect on elimination kinetics than first-pass metabolism, and that this interaction appears to be overstated in product labeling.

UI  - 22427290
TI  - Efficacy and safety of cinnarizine in the prophylaxis of migraine headaches in children: an open, randomized comparative trial with propranolol.
AB  - Migraine headaches are common in children. Early diagnosis and appropriate interventions are mandatory to prevent decades of suffering and diminished quality of life. There is need for data regarding the efficacy and safety of prophylactic agents in children with migraine; therefore, we designed a randomized clinical trial to compare the efficacy and safety of cinnarizine with that of a well-known prophylactic agent (propranolol) in the prophylaxis of pediatric migraine headache. A total of 120 patients aged between 6 and 17years were recruited and 113 patients succeeded in completing all phases of the trial. Of them, 57 patients were given cinnarizine, and propranolol was administered in 56 patients. Reduction in headache frequency was the main response to treatment. Cinnarizine reduced the baseline headache frequency by more than 50% in 74.6% of patients and the mean headache frequency per month was reduced from 11.8510.739 (meanSEM) to 3.3580.739 (meanSEM) attacks per month (P<0.001). In the propranolol group, more than 50% reduction of the baseline headache frequency was seen in 72.5% of patients and the mean headache frequency per month was reduced from 10.2640.830 (meanSEM) to 2.7740.830 (meanSEM) attacks per month (P<0.001). No significant difference was seen in 50% reduction of the baseline headache frequency between treatment groups (P=0.358). No significant adverse effects were reported. In this open study, cinnarizine appeared thus as effective as propranolol and safe for the prophylaxis of migraine in children, but this remains to be confirmed in a double-blind placebo-controlled trial.

UI  - 22377815
TI  - Randomized, placebo-controlled trial of propranolol added to topiramate in chronic migraine.
AB  - This study provides Class II evidence that propranolol LA, added to topiramate, is ineffective in chronic migraine patients who fail topiramate monotherapy.

UI  - 22352764
TI  - Twelve-month tolerability and efficacy study of NP101, the sumatriptan iontophoretic transdermal system.
AB  - NP101, a transdermal sumatriptan formulation in development for the acute treatment of migraine, demonstrated tolerability and efficacy with successive uses over 12 months in this clinical trial.

UI  - 22310106
TI  - Testosterone pellet implants and migraine headaches: a pilot study.
AB  - The purpose of this prospective pilot study was to determine the therapeutic effect of continuous testosterone, delivered as a subcutaneous implant, on the severity of migraine headaches in pre- and post-menopausal patients. Twenty-seven women with a history of documented migraine headache were asked to rate their headache severity using a five-point scale at baseline (prior to therapy); and again, 3 months following treatment with testosterone implants. Improvement in headache severity was noted by 92% of patients and the mean level of improvement was statistically significant (3.3 on a 5 point scale). In addition, there was no difference in the level of improvement between pre- and post-menopausal cohorts. Seventy-four percent of patients reported a headache severity score of '0' (none) on testosterone implant therapy for the 3-month treatment period. Continuous testosterone was effective therapy in reducing the severity of migraine headaches in both pre- and post-menopausal women.

UI  - 22303641
TI  - Intravenous dexamethasone versus morphine in relieving of acute migraine headache.
AB  - Inflammation is thought to play a significant role in the underlying pathophysiology of migraine headaches which could be controlled by corticosteroids. The present study was conducted to determine and compare the pain relieving effect of dexamethasone versus morphine on patients with acute migraine headache. During this double blinded clinical trial study, 190 patients who met the International Headache Society definition of acute migraine headache were evaluated at emergency department of Tabriz Imam Reza Hospital. After giving informed consent, patients were randomly enrolled into two groups: Receiving either 8 mg dexamethasone (group A) or 0.1 mg kg(-1) morphine (group B) intravenously. Severity of the headache was determined using Visual Analog Scale (VAS) scoring method at baseline (VAS-A), 10 min (VAS-B), 60 min (VAS-C) and 24 h (VAS-D) after intervention. The mean age of patients was 44.17 +/- 16.20 years, 61.57% male and 38.43% female. The mean of VAS-A and VAS-B scores was not statistically different between two groups (p = 0.236 and p = 0.481), but the mean of VAS-C and VAS-D scores in the group A were significantly lower than the group B (p = 0.017, p = 0.010). In long-term (1 h and 24 h after administration), dexamethasone reduces the severity of acute migrant headache more than morphine.

UI  - 22289113
TI  - Pharmacokinetics and tolerability of rizatriptan in pediatric migraineurs in a randomized study.
AB  - In pediatric migraineurs, a weight-based dosing scheme generated plasma rizatriptan AUC((0-)) and C(max) values that were generally similar to those historically observed in adults administered a 10-mg dose of rizatriptan ODT (a proven effective dose). The data support further evaluation of the safety, tolerability, and efficacy of this rizatriptan dosing scheme in larger scale clinical trials in the pediatric migraineur population.

UI  - 22278333
TI  - A randomized, placebo-controlled study of the effects of telcagepant on exercise time in patients with stable angina.
AB  - Telcagepant is a calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) receptor antagonist being evaluated for acute migraine treatment. CGRP is a potent vasodilator that is elevated after myocardial infarction, and it delays ischemia during treadmill exercise. We tested the hypothesis that CGRP receptor antagonism does not reduce treadmill exercise time (TET). The effects of supratherapeutic doses of telcagepant on TET were assessed in a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, two-period, crossover study in patients with stable angina and reproducible exercise-induced angina. Patients received telcagepant (600 mg, n = 46; and 900 mg, n = 14) or placebo and performed treadmill exercise at T(max) (2.5 h after the dose). The hypothesis that telcagepant does not reduce TET was supported if the lower bound of the two-sided 90% confidence interval (CI) for the mean treatment difference (telcagepant-placebo) in TET was more than -60 s. There were no significant between-treatment differences in TET (mean treatment difference: -6.90 (90% CI: -17.66, 3.86) seconds), maximum exercise heart rate, or time to 1-mm ST-segment depression using pooled data or with stratification for dose.

UI  - 22250605
TI  - Negative impact of migraine on quality of life after 4 weeks of treatment in patients with major depressive disorder.
AB  - Migraine may have a negative impact on the improvement of partial SF-36 subscales, especially on functional recovery, after acute treatment among outpatients with MDD. Whether additional intervention besides antidepressant treatment for migraine is indicated may need further study.

UI  - 22234883
TI  - Early dosing and efficacy of triptans in acute migraine treatment: the TEMPO study.
AB  - This suggests that advising patients on the importance of early triptan intake after headache onset may help improve the efficacy of acute migraine treatments.

UI  - 22233396
TI  - A randomized, one-year clinical trial comparing the efficacy of topiramate, flunarizine, and a combination of flunarizine and topiramate in migraine prophylaxis.
AB  - Flunarizine, topiramate, and the combination of flunarizine with topiramate are all effective and have good tolerability in migraine prophylaxis. Adding topiramate to flunarizine may reduce the latter's impact on body weight.

UI  - 22231680
TI  - A proactive approach to migraine in primary care: a pragmatic randomized controlled trial.
AB  - An educational intervention for general practitioners and a proactive approach to patients with migraine did not result in a clinically relevant improvement of symptoms. Psychological distress was an important confounder of success. (Current Controlled Trials registration no. ISRCTN72421511.).

UI  - 22221076
TI  - Randomized, controlled study of telcagepant in patients with migraine and coronary artery disease.
AB  - The study was underpowered due to enrollment difficulties and did not demonstrate a significant efficacy difference between telcagepant and placebo for the treatment of a migraine attack in patients with stable coronary artery disease. Telcagepant was generally well tolerated for acute intermittent migraine treatment in these patients.

UI  - 22174351
TI  - Lack of drug interaction between the migraine drug MAP0004 (orally inhaled dihydroergotamine) and a CYP3A4 inhibitor in humans.
AB  - This study demonstrated that CYP3A4 inhibition had little to no effect on DHE PK after MAP0004 administration, apparently because of its high systemic and low gastrointestinal bioavailability. CYP3A4 inhibition slowed elimination of the metabolite 8'-OH-DHE, but concentrations were too low to be pharmacologically relevant.

UI  - 22142350
TI  - Evaluation of the migraine treatment sumatriptan/naproxen sodium on blood pressure following long-term administration.
AB  - Anti-inflammatory and pain therapies have been associated with blood pressure (BP) destabilization. Hence, the effects on BP of sumatriptan/naproxen sodium in fixed-dose combination, sumatriptan 85 mg, and naproxen sodium 500 mg administered intermittently for the acute treatment of migraine attacks were assessed. Patients with migraine with or without aura and no history of hypertension were randomized to sumatriptan/naproxen sodium (n=135), sumatriptan (n=136), or naproxen sodium (n=136) to treat migraine attacks for 6 months in a double-blind, parallel-group trial. Following a treated migraine attack, patients performed 2 consecutive days of self-measured BPs beginning 24 hours after the last dose of study medication and transmitted them by a transtelephonic modem. The primary end point was the change from baseline in self-measured BP at 6 months. Changes in self-measured BP from baseline to 6 months for sumatriptan/naproxen sodium were -2.1/-1.5 mm Hg (95% confidence intervals, -3.4 to -0.8 for systolic and -2.6 to -0.3 for diastolic). Mean changes from baseline in self-measured BP did not differ among the 3 treatment groups. Additional categorical analyses did not show increases from baseline with sumatriptan/naproxen sodium relative to either of the monotherapy groups. Intermittent acute migraine treatment with sumatriptan/naproxen sodium for up to 6 months was associated with clinically insignificant decreases in self-measured BP that were similar to those with sumatriptan or naproxen alone in normotensive patients with migraine.

UI  - 22106843
TI  - Efficacy and safety of MAP0004, orally inhaled DHE in treating migraines with and without allodynia.
AB  - This post hoc subanalysis shows that MAP0004 was similarly effective in patients whether or not allodynia was present at treatment baseline. Patients were also more likely to be allodynia-free following treatment of a migraine with MAP0004.

UI  - 22103635
TI  - Sumatriptan-naproxen and butalbital: a double-blind, placebo-controlled crossover study.
AB  - This study primarily included subjects whose migraines significantly impacted their lives. Before the study, these subjects used butalbital-containing medications as part of their current migraine treatment regimen and were satisfied with it, suggesting they were butalbital responders who had found a workable treatment strategy for themselves. When treated with SumaRT/Nap versus BCM in this study, however, a significant proportion of subjects reported better treatment outcomes for themselves for both migraine pain and associated symptoms. Use of SumaRT/Nap was also associated with less rescue medication use and a longer time before use of rescue medication compared with both BCM and placebo.

UI  - 22078129
TI  - Rizatriptan for treatment of acute migraine in patients taking topiramate for migraine prophylaxis.
AB  - Rizatriptan 10-mg ODT was superior to placebo at all pain end points for treatment of acute migraine in patients using topiramate for migraine prophylaxis. Rizatriptan was generally well tolerated in this population. These results are comparable with those from clinical trials in patients not using prophylaxis, suggesting that the use of topiramate does not affect the efficacy or tolerability of rizatriptan for acute migraine treatment.

UI  - 21996647
TI  - Efficacy of parecoxib, sumatriptan, and rizatriptan in the treatment of acute migraine attacks.
AB  - Triptans and analgetic nonsteroidal inflammatory drugs reduce acute pain syndromes in migraine. A further treatment option for an acute headache attack in patients with migraine may be the application of cyclooxygenase-2-specific inhibitors, as they have anti-inflammatory and analgesic properties. The objective of this pilot study was to investigate the effects of an oral fast-dissolving tablet of 10 mg of rizatriptan, an intravenous infusion of 40 mg of parecoxib, and a subcutaneous pen injection of sumatriptan (6 mg/0.5 mL) on pain relief in 3 cohorts of patients with episodic migraine. They were treated owing to the acute onset of a pain attack as a case of emergency. They were randomized to treatment with sumatriptan, rizatriptan, or parecoxib. The participants completed a visual analog scale for pain intensity at baseline before the drug administration and then after intervals of 20, 30, 60, and 120 minutes. Rizatriptan, parecoxib, and sumatriptan reduced pain symptoms. Twenty and 30 minutes after drug intake, rizatriptan was more efficacious than parecoxib and sumatriptan, and parecoxib was more effective than sumatriptan. Only a significant difference between rizatriptan and sumatriptan was found after 60 and 120 minutes. This trial demonstrates the effectiveness of a parecoxib infusion in the treatment of acute migraine and that the circumvention of the first pass effect of the liver by rizatriptan may be beneficial for fast pain relief.

UI  - 21964172
TI  - MAP0004, orally inhaled dihydroergotamine for acute treatment of migraine: efficacy of early and late treatments.
AB  - This post hoc subanalysis shows that MAP0004 was effective in treating migraine irrespective of the time of treatment, even more than 8 hours after onset of migraine pain.

UI  - 21956721
TI  - OnabotulinumtoxinA improves quality of life and reduces impact of chronic migraine.
AB  - This study provides Class 1A evidence that onabotulinumtoxinA treatment reduces headache impact and improves HRQoL.

UI  - 21942531
TI  - Needle-free subcutaneous sumatriptan for triptan users requiring a change in migraine therapy: efficacy and impact on patient-rated functionality, satisfaction, and confidence.
AB  - With SDP, triptan users requiring a change in therapy experienced increased efficacy, satisfaction with therapy, and confidence in treatment without deterioration in tolerability.

UI  - 21908446
TI  - The efficacy and tolerability of a fixed combination of acetylsalicylic acid, paracetamol, and caffeine in patients with severe headache: a post-hoc subgroup analysis from a multicentre, randomized, double-blind, single-dose, placebo-controlled parallel group study.
AB  - The results of this subgroup analysis confirm that the fixed combination of ASA (250 mg), paracetamol (200 mg), and caffeine (50 mg) is effective and well tolerated in a broad spectrum from mild to severe migraine and tension-type headache severity independently of the headache diagnosis.

UI  - 21890526
TI  - Exercise as migraine prophylaxis: a randomized study using relaxation and topiramate as controls.
AB  - Exercise may be an option for the prophylactic treatment of migraine in patients who do not benefit from or do not want to take daily medication.

UI  - 21887905
TI  - Sublingual piroxicam in migraine without aura.
AB  - The present study has demonstrated that for the acute management of migraine without aura sublingual piroxicam showed significant analgesic effect with excellent tolerability.

UI  - 21883200
TI  - Sumatriptan-naproxen migraine efficacy in allodynic patients: early intervention.
AB  - In this open-label study, allodynic patients reported that their migraine attacks responded well and they achieved a high degree of satisfaction following treatment with a fixed-dose tablet of sumatriptan 85 mg/naproxen sodium 500 mg administered in a very early treatment paradigm.

UI  - 21883197
TI  - OnabotulinumtoxinA for treatment of chronic migraine: pooled analyses of the 56-week PREEMPT clinical program.
AB  - Repeated treatment with  5 cycles of onabotulinumtoxinA was effective, safe, and well tolerated in adults with chronic migraine.

UI  - 21843889
TI  - Combined oral contraceptives in women with menstrual migraine without aura.
AB  - The 24/4 COC regimen is recommended as the preferred treatment for patients suffering from pure menstrual migraine without aura.

UI  - 21842274
TI  - Efficacy of frovatriptan in the acute treatment of menstrually related migraine: analysis of a double-blind, randomized, cross-over, multicenter, Italian, comparative study versus rizatriptan.
AB  - The objectives of this study are to assess the efficacy and safety of frovatriptan, and rizatriptan in the subgroup of women with menstrually related migraine of a multicenter, randomized, double blind, cross-over study. Each patient received frovatriptan 2.5mg or rizatriptan 10mg in a randomized sequence: after treating 3 episodes of migraine in not more than 3months with the first treatment, the patient had to switch to the other treatment. Menstrually related migraine was defined according to the criteria listed in the Appendix of the last IHS Classification of Headache disorders. 99 out of the 125 patients included in the intention-to-treat analysis of the main study were of a female gender: 93 had regular menstrual cycles and were, thus, included in this analysis. A total of 49 attacks classified as menstrually related migraine were treated with frovatriptan and 59 with rizatriptan. Rate of pain relief at 2h was 58% for frovatriptan and 64% for rizatriptan (p=NS), while rate of pain free at 2h was 31 and 34% (p=NS), respectively. At 24h, 67 and 81% of frovatriptan-treated, and 61 and 74% of rizatriptan-treated patients were pain free and had pain relief, respectively (p=NS). Recurrence at 24h was significantly (p<0.01) lower with frovatriptan (10 vs. 32% rizatriptan). Frovatriptan was as effective as rizatriptan in the immediate treatment of menstrually related migraine attacks while showing a favorable sustained effect with a lower rate of migraine recurrence. These results need to be confirmed by randomized, double-blind, prospective, large clinical trials.

UI  - 21812775
TI  - Satisfaction with and confidence in needle-free subcutaneous sumatriptan in patients currently treated with triptans.
AB  - Patients currently treated with triptans and less than very satisfied with their acute migraine therapy experienced a statistically significant and clinically relevant increase in satisfaction with therapy and enhanced confidence in treatment after use of Sumavel DosePro for up to 4 migraine attacks.

UI  - 21802924
TI  - Chemical composition and therapeutic effects of Lippia alba (Mill.) N. E. Brown leaves hydro-alcoholic extract in patients with migraine.
AB  - Treatment with a geranial plus carvenone chemotype of L. alba hydro-alcoholic extract is a cheap, widely available, highly effective therapy to reduce both the intensity and the frequency of headache episodes of migraine patients with no side effects.

UI  - 21797863
TI  - Long-term evaluation of sumatriptan and naproxen sodium for the acute treatment of migraine in adolescents.
AB  - In adolescent migraineurs, after up to 12 months and over 12,000 exposures to sumatriptan/naproxen sodium, there were no new or clinically significant findings in the safety parameters, including the frequency and nature of adverse events, as compared to the individual components or to the adverse event profile in adults. In addition, sumatriptan/naproxen sodium provided freedom from pain over time, improvements in quality of life and medication satisfaction.

UI  - 21777163
TI  - The impact of allodynia on the efficacy of almotriptan when given early in migraine: data from the "Act when mild" study.
AB  - The objective of this study was to evaluate the impact of allodynia on treatment outcomes in the patients with acute migraine treated in the "Act when Mild" (AwM) study. AwM, a randomized placebo-controlled trial, studied almotriptan 12.5 mg in the early treatment (within 1 hr) of acute migraine when the pain was still mild, and investigated clinical outcomes in the presence or absence of allodynia, which was prospectively recorded using patient questionnaires. Of the total population, 39% (n = 404) reported allodynia that did not alter the efficacy of almotriptan administered for early/mild pain in terms of 2-hr pain-free rates (53.9% for allodynic patients vs. 52.5% for nonallodynic patients). Similarly, sustained pain-free rates were 47.2% versus 45.5%, and migraine duration 1.40 versus 1.54 hr, respectively. However, allodynia impaired the effectiveness of almotriptan in the patients with moderate/severe pain in terms of longer migraine duration, fewer patients achieving pain-free status, and more requiring rescue medication. In conclusion, the lack of effect of allodynia on the efficacy of almotriptan given for early/mild migraine pain might help explain the improved outcomes associated with the early-treatment strategy in AwM. Moreover, the data suggest that pain intensity is the main driver of triptan response, and not the presence or absence of allodynia.

UI  - 21762313
TI  - The Migraine Intervention Score - a tool to improve efficacy of triptans in acute migraine therapy: the ALADIN study.
AB  - The initiation of attack treatment with frovatriptan at low severity of migraine symptoms is more effective than starting therapy at higher symptom levels. Together with the low recurrence headache rate, the decreased necessity for escape medication and the low number of tablets needed, these data demonstrate that operationalised intervention with frovatriptan 2.5 mg is a valuable method for improving the treatment of migraine attacks.

UI  - 21738025
TI  - Zonisamide versus topiramate in migraine prophylaxis: a double-blind randomized clinical trial.
AB  - Our results indicated that zonisamide is as effective as topiramate in migraine prophylaxis and can be considered as an alternative treatment when topiramate is not tolerated well.

UI  - 21631494
TI  - A double-blind placebo-controlled pilot study of sublingual feverfew and ginger (LipiGesic M) in the treatment of migraine.
AB  - Sublingual feverfew/ginger appears safe and effective as a first-line abortive treatment for a population of migraineurs who frequently experience mild headache prior to the onset of moderate to severe headache.

UI  - 21631478
TI  - Effect of telcagepant on spontaneous ischemia in cardiovascular patients in a randomized study.
AB  - Two doses of 300-mg telcagepant, administered 2 hours apart, did not appear to exacerbate spontaneous ischemia and were generally well tolerated in a small cohort of patients with stable coronary artery disease. Results of this study support further evaluation of telcagepant in patients with stable coronary artery disease.

UI  - 21616596
TI  - Efficacy of acupuncture for migraine prophylaxis: a single-blinded, double-dummy, randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Insufficient clinical trial data were available to prove the efficacy of acupuncture for migraine prophylaxis. A multicenter, double-dummy, single-blinded, randomized controlled clinical trial was conducted at the outpatient departments of acupuncture at 5 hospitals in China to evaluate the effectiveness of acupuncture. A total of 140 patients with migraine without aura were recruited and assigned randomly to 2 different groups: the acupuncture group treated with verum acupuncture plus placebo and the control group treated with sham acupuncture plus flunarizine. Treated by acupuncture 3 times per week and drugs every night, patients from both groups were evaluated at week 0 (baseline), week 4, and week 16. The primary outcome was measured by the proportion of responders (defined as the proportion of patients with a reduction of migraine days by at least 50%). The secondary outcome measures included the number of migraine days, visual analogue scale (VAS, 0 to 10 cm) for pain, as well as the physical and mental component summary scores of the 36-item short-form health survey (SF-36). The patients in the acupuncture group had better responder rates and fewer migraine days compared with the control group (P<.05), whereas there were no significant differences between the 2 groups in VAS scores and SF-36 physical and mental component summary scores (P>.05). The results suggested that acupuncture was more effective than flunarizine in decreasing days of migraine attacks, whereas no significantly differences were found between acupuncture and flunarizine in reduction of pain intensity and improvement of the quality of life.

UI  - 21592098
TI  - Multi-center comparison of response to a single tablet of sumatriptan 85 mg and naproxen 500 mg vs usual therapy treating multiple migraine attacks as measured by the completeness of response survey.
AB  - NCT00893737.

UI  - 21585330
TI  - Metoclopramide as an analgesic in severe migraine attacks: an open, single-blind, parallel control study.
AB  - Metoclopramide is a well-known anti-emetic drug with central and peripheral pharmacological effects. Some authors have reported metoclopramide as an adjunct therapy to other analgesics in patients with migraine attacks. Treatment of migraine headache using a mix of metoclopramide and an NSAID has been patented (European Patent EP1014961) as well as a short series showing great efficacy and tolerability of metoclopramide in patients wtih migraine attacks. We decided to conduct an open, single-blind, parallel control study in the emergency department to evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of metoclopramide in patients with severe migraine attacks. 93 consecutive patients with severe migraine attacks were randomized into two groups (groups A and B). Patients in group A received 10mg of intravenous metoclopramide and patients in group B received 1 g of intravenous paracetamol. Patients were evaluated 5 minutes before (baseline), 15, 30, 60 and 120 minutes after drug delivery, and before being discharged from the emergency department They were then contacted by phone 48 hours after being discharged from the hospital (phone questionnaire). Patients treated with either metoclopramide or paracetamol showed a significant reduction in the intensity of pain at the 120 minute time point, with an 86% and 82% improvement respectively. However, patients treated with metoclopramide showed a more rapid improvement at the 15 and 30 minute evaluations. Patients with severe migraine attacks treated with metoclopramide as monotherapy showed a significant improvement in terms of pain relief and a faster improvement in pain intensity compared to those treated with paracetamol. Metoclopramide and other dopamine antagonistic drugs should be considered a therapeutic option in severe migraine headache attacks.

UI  - 21533723
TI  - Efficacy of frovatriptan in the acute treatment of menstrually related migraine: analysis of a double-blind, randomized, multicenter, Italian, comparative study versus zolmitriptan.
AB  - Menstrually related migraine (MRM) is a particularly difficult-to-treat pain condition, associated with substantial disability. Aim of this study was to compare the efficacy and safety of frovatriptan and zolmitriptan in the treatment of MRM attacks, analyzing data from a multicenter, randomized, double blind, cross-over study. We analyzed the subset of 76 regularly menstruating women who participated in one head-to-head multicenter, randomized, double blind, cross-over clinical trial and who took the study drugs to treat MRM attacks. In a randomized sequence, each patient received frovatriptan 2.5mg or zolmitriptan 2.5mg: after treating three episodes of migraine in no more than 3months with the first treatment, the patient had to switch to the other treatment. MRM was defined according to the criteria listed in the Appendix of the last Classification of Headache disorders of the International Headache Society. A total of 73 attacks, classified as MRM, were treated with frovatriptan and 65 with zolmitriptan. Rate of pain relief at 2h was 52% for frovatriptan and 53% for zolmitriptan (p=NS), while rate of pain free at 2h was 22 and 26% (p=NS), respectively. At 24h, 74 and 83% of frovatriptan-treated and 69 and 82% of zolmitriptan-treated patients were pain free and had pain relief, respectively (p=NS). Recurrence at 24h was significantly (p<0.05) lower with frovatriptan (15 vs. 22% zolmitriptan). Frovatriptan proved to be effective in the immediate treatment of MRM attacks, similarly to zolmitriptan, but showed lower recurrence rates, and thus a better sustained relief.

UI  - 21532361
TI  - Efficacy, safety, and tolerability of sertraline on depressive symptoms in women with comorbid migraine: an open-label study.
AB  - 

UI  - 21530095
TI  - A new horizon into the pathobiology, etiology and treatment of migraine.
AB  - Sexual dimorphism in the prevalence of migraine (70% women 30% men) suggests the involvement of reproductive hormones in a women's life. Excessive estrogen during menstruation directly stimulate estrogen receptor alpha thickly populated in trigeminal ganglia and periaqueductal gray which manifest as menstrual migraine. In contrast increased progesterone during pregnancy evokes progesterone receptors A/B, which coexist with ERs, providing complete remission from migraine episodes. Moreover, estrogen also increases nociception through extracellularly signal-regulated kinase (ERK) stimulation and down-regulating antinociceptive GABA, IL-R1 and Zn-fingers. Hormones may provoke migraine indirectly by disrupting mineral homeostasis. Estrogen enhances the absorption and half-life of copper which in turn inhibits the absorption of zinc. Zinc is required for the synthesis of melatonin and CoQ10 essential for growing women. Excess of copper exacerbates the deficiency of zinc, melatonin and CoQ10 typically low in migraineurs. Melatonin is an antioxidant, free radical scavenger and activates antioxidant enzymes like CuZn-superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase (a Se-enzyme) and glutathione reductase. Zinc deficiency reduces activity of CuZn-SOD. Magnesium and vitamin B6 modulates the level of NO in the cell, both of which are deficient in migraineurs. Magnesium is essential for the removal of trapped NO from within the cell which does not occur under low magnesium levels, which reacts with superoxide generating dangerous peroxynitrite. Iron stimulates nitric oxide synthase producing more NO which is inhibited by zinc, thus, antagonizing peroxynitrite generation. Female hormones lowers magnesium but increase calcium levels which enhance migraine ubiquitousness. Accumulation of copper and iron in deep areas of brain and peripheral nerves typically catalyses the oxidation of catecholamines and generate free radicals involved in lipid-peroxidation, demyelination, denudation of axons and neurodegeneration in specific areas exposing hyperalgesic axons provoking Classical migraine. Furthermore, zinc is an essential component of Zn-fingers (Krox20 and Krox24) which play a pivotal role in the differentiation of Schwann cells-the mainstay for the myelination/remyelination of peripheral nerves. Taken together, conceptually and logically, 30 migraineurs were administered 75 mg of zinc sulfate orally in water daily for 6 weeks+one capsule of vitamin B-complex+one capsule of vitamin A or E (first 10 days) which almost cured all of them. Placebo controlled trials with incremental doses of zinc sulfate along with magnesium and selenium are proposed to augment recovery involving large population of migraineurs. Monitoring of hair and blood mineral analysis for rational therapy is recommended.

UI  - 21521204
TI  - Sumatriptan-naproxen sodium for menstrual migraine and dysmenorrhea: satisfaction, productivity, and functional disability outcomes.
AB  - A fixed-dose combination tablet containing sumatriptan and naproxen sodium significantly improved patient satisfaction, productivity, and restoration of normal functioning in menstrual migraineurs with dysmenorrhea.

UI  - 21481754
TI  - Cognitive effects of topiramate in migraine patients aged 12-17 years.
AB  - 

UI  - 21457240
TI  - Topiramate vs divalproex sodium in the preventive treatment of migraine: a prospective "real-world" study.
AB  - Although any conclusions from this investigation necessarily are limited because of our study's open-label nonrandomized design, these results suggest that TPM and DVP are reasonably effective and generally well tolerated when used to treat a "real-world" population of episodic migraineurs who require prophylaxis.

UI  - 21457238
TI  - Randomized controlled study of telcagepant plus ibuprofen or acetaminophen in migraine.
AB  - The combination of telcagepant 280 mg with either ibuprofen 400 mg or acetaminophen 1000 mg did not show a statistically significant difference from telcagepant alone. Numerically greater treatment effects in the combination treatment groups over the telcagepant 280 mg monotherapy suggest that telcagepant combination treatments may merit further evaluation in studies powered to detect smaller additive benefits. (Clinicaltrials.gov; NCT00758836).

UI  - 21457235
TI  - MAP0004, orally inhaled DHE: a randomized, controlled study in the acute treatment of migraine.
AB  - In this study, MAP0004 was effective and well tolerated for the acute treatment of migraine with or without aura, providing statistically significant pain relief and freedom from photophobia, phonophobia, and nausea in adults with migraine compared with placebo.

UI  - 21437714
TI  - A double-blind, randomized, multicenter, Italian study of frovatriptan versus almotriptan for the acute treatment of migraine.
AB  - The objective of this study was to evaluate patients' satisfaction with acute treatment of migraine with frovatriptan or almotriptan by preference questionnaire. One hundred and thirty three subjects with a history of migraine with or without aura (IHS 2004 criteria), with at least one migraine attack in the preceding 6months, were enrolled and randomized to frovatriptan 2.5mg or almotriptan 12.5mg, treating 1-3 attacks. The study had a multicenter, randomized, double blind, cross-over design, with treatment periods lasting <3months. At study end patients assigned preference to one of the treatments using a questionnaire with a score from 0 to 5 (primary endpoint). Secondary endpoints were pain free and pain relief episodes at 2 and 4h, and recurrent and sustained pain free episodes within 48h. Of the 133 patients (86%, intention-to-treat population) 114 of them expressed a preference for a triptan. The average preference score was not significantly different between frovatriptan (3.11.3) and almotriptan (3.41.3). The rates of pain free (30% frovatriptan vs. 32% almotriptan) and pain relief (54% vs. 56%) episodes at 2h did not significantly differ between treatments. This was the case also at 4h (pain free: 56% vs. 59%; pain relief: 75% vs. 72%). Recurrent episodes were significantly (P<0.05) less frequent under frovatriptan (30% vs. 44%), also for the attacks treated within 30min. No significant differences were observed in sustained pain free episodes (21% vs. 18%). The tolerability profile was similar between the two drugs. In conclusion, our study suggests that frovatriptan has a similar efficacy of almotriptan in the short-term, while some advantages are observed during long-term treatment.

UI  - 21429523
TI  - The effect of propranolol on cerebrovascular reactivity to visual stimulation in migraine.
AB  - Considering that CVR was decreased but the baseline MFV was not changed in the posterior cerebral artery prior to the visual stimulation in migraineurs after propranolol treatment, we assume that the protective effect of propranolol was not due to the direct effect on the cerebral vessels but due to the modulation of the CVR to sensory stimulation through its action on central centers associated with autonomic vascular tone.

UI  - 21402387
TI  - Triggers, symptoms, and treatment in two populations of migraneurs in Brazil and Spain. A cross-cultural study.
AB  - Brazilians migraneurs are more often undertreated for migraine, and underutilization of triptans and preventatives was observed.

UI  - 21383045
TI  - Randomized controlled trial of the CGRP receptor antagonist MK-3207 in the acute treatment of migraine.
AB  - MK-3207 was effective and generally well tolerated in the acute treatment of migraine.

UI  - 21375763
TI  - Migraine headaches in chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS): comparison of two prospective cross-sectional studies.
AB  - Georgetown University IRB # 2006-481

UI  - 21298315
TI  - Experience with onabotulinumtoxinA (BOTOX) in chronic refractory migraine: focus on severe attacks.
AB  - The objective of this study is to analyse our experience in the treatment of refractory chronic migraine (CM) with onabotulinumtoxinA (BTA) and specifically in its effects over disabling attacks. Patients with CM and inadequate response or intolerance to oral preventatives were treated with pericranial injections of 100 U of TBA every 3 months. The dose was increased up to 200 U in case of no response. The patients kept a headache diary. In addition, we specifically asked on the effect of BTA on the frequency of disabling attacks, consumption of triptans and visits to Emergency for the treatment of severe attacks. This series comprises a total of 35 patients (3 males), aged 24-68 years. All except three met IHS criteria for analgesic overuse. The number of sessions with BTA ranged from 2 to 15 (median 4) and nine (26%) responded (reduction of >50% in headache days). However, the frequency of severe attacks was reduced to an average of 46%. Oral triptan consumption (29 patients) was reduced by 50% (from an average of 22 to 11 tablets/month). Those six patients who used subcutaneous sumatriptan reduced its consumption to a mean of 69% (from 4.5 to 1.5 injections per month). Emergency visits went from an average of 3 to 0.4 per trimester (-83%). Six patients complained of mild adverse events, transient local cervical pain being the most common. Although our data must be taken with caution as this is an open trial, in clinical practice treatment of refractory CM with BTA reduces the frequency of disabling attacks, the consumption of triptans and the need of visits to Emergency, which makes this treatment a profitable option both clinically and pharmacoeconomically.

UI  - 21296523
TI  - Prochlorperazine in children with migraine: a look at its effectiveness and rate of akathisia.
AB  - Prochlorperazine seems very effective to decrease pain on a short-term basis in children. However, more than two thirds of the patients, overall, had a relapse of their migraine at home in the first week. Despite the use of diphenhydramine, akathisia remains a concern.

UI  - 21287488
TI  - [Personality factors, degree of disability and therapeutic management of patients with migraine visiting a neurology unit for the first time (Psicomig study)].
AB  - This study confirms the impact of migraine in terms of disability and in terms of loss of labour output, together with its association with personality factors.

UI  - 21250937
TI  - Elderly patients with migraine: an open-label study on prophylaxis therapy with levetiracetam.
AB  - In the last years, the hypothesis that cortical hyperexcitability may play a role in the physiopathology of migraine led to the therapeutic use of some antiepileptic drugs. To evaluate the efficacy of levetiracetam as prophylactic treatment for migraine without aura in elderly patients. We performed a small open-label trial treating 13 elderly patients(8F 5M) mean age 64.7 years (SD 3.4), range 60-72 years affected by migraine without aura (ICDH '04 criteria). The mean age of disease was 21.3 years (SD13.4) range 2-45 years. At baseline: the frequency of attacks was 12.2/month (SD 5.9), range 6-25; the mean number of drugs for acute attacks was 12.6 (SD 6.5) tablets/month. All patients took concomitant medication for other chronic diseases. After recruitment Levetiracetam 500 mg/die was administered for 1 week and 1000 mg/die for six months. The basal frequency of attack was 12,2 (SD 5.9) and 8,3 (SD 4.9), 4,1 (SD2.6), 1,3 (SD1.4) after 1, 3 and 6 months respectively [P=0.079; P<0.0001; P<0.0001].The basal value of intaking drugs for acute attacks was 12,6 (SD 6.5) and 6,7 (SD 4.3), 2,8 (SD 2.2), 1,4 (SD1.7) after 1, 3 and six months respectively [P=0.012; P<0.0001; P<0.0001](T-test analysis). Levetiracetam was well tolerated (7 patients complained somnolence, lack of concentration and gastralgia but none patient withdrew the study). In our study levetiracetam showed a good efficacy in frequency and intensity reduction of headache attack and showed a very good tolerability despite all elderly patients took drugs for concomitant diseases.

UI  - 21240023
TI  - Double-blind, placebo-controlled antibiotic treatment study of small intestinal bacterial overgrowth in children with chronic abdominal pain.
AB  - Similar to adults with IBS, the prevalence of abnormal LBT suggesting SIBO in children with CAP is high; however, treatment with 10 days of rifaximin has low efficacy in normalizing LBT in this group. Additional studies are needed to determine whether a treatment approach with higher efficacy would lead to improvement in children with CAP.

UI  - 21227540
TI  - Metoclopramide for acute migraine: a dose-finding randomized clinical trial.
AB  - Twenty milligrams or 40 mg of metoclopramide is no better for acute migraine than 10 mg of metoclopramide.

UI  - 21198566
TI  - The effect of prophylactic medications on TMS for migraine aura.
AB  - Prophylactic medications do not appear to influence the treatment response to TMS. The better response in Sham-treated patients not on PM may indicate a more responsive subgroup or different patient phenotype than those currently using PM. These findings will need to be verified in a larger patient sample randomized by presence or absence of PM.

UI  - 21172952
TI  - BI 44370 TA, an oral CGRP antagonist for the treatment of acute migraine attacks: results from a phase II study.
AB  - Efficacy of BI 44370 TA was shown in a dose-dependent manner in the treatment of acute migraine attacks.

UI  - 21122466
TI  - Investigation of carbachol and PACAP38 in a human model of migraine.
AB  - The parasympathetic signalling molecules acetylcholine, pituitary adenylate cyclase activating peptide-38 (PACAP38) and vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) may be released from parasympathetic fibres and activate sensory nerve fibres during migraine attacks. Recently, it was shown that VIP does not induce migraine-like attacks in migraine patients. Interestingly, PACAP38 activates the same VPAC receptors as VIP, but also specifically activates the PAC1 receptor. The present thesis includes four double-blind placebo-controlled crossover studies aimed to explore the role of acetylcholine, PACAP and VIP in migraine and head pain. In study I-III we investigated acetylcholine, via the analogue carbachol, and PACAP38 in a human model of migraine. In study IV we studied if PACAP38 and VIP might induce central sensitization, neurogenic inflammation and mast cell degranulation in a cutaneous model of acute pain. Study I-II showed that carbachol induced short lasting mild headache and moderate cephalic vasodilatation in both healthy volunteers and migraine patients, but did not induce migraine-like attacks. In study III PACAP38 induced headache in healthy subjects and delayed migraine-like attacks in migraine patients as well as sustained dilatation of cephalic vessels. In study IV VIP and PACAP38 evoked skin pain, central sensitization, neurogenic inflammation and mast cell degranulation, but VIP showed to be more potent than PACAP38 in inducing neurogenic inflammation and mast cell degranulation. In conclusion, we found that carbachol infusion was not a good model for experimental migraine provocation, probably because the maximal dose was insufficient to produce enough nitric oxide to trigger migraine. PACAP38 infusion is a new pathway for migraine induction and the results from study IV suggest that neurogenic inflammation and mast cell degranulation are unlikely to cause PACAP38 induced migraine. The present thesis contributes to our knowledge on migraine pathophysiology and suggests PAC1 receptor antagonism as a new target for migraine treatment.

UI  - 21083558
TI  - Prophylactic botulinum type A toxin complex (Dysport) for migraine without aura.
AB  - Limitations in study design and assessment tools employed may have contributed to the inconclusive nature of the primary end point data. Dysport-240 showed significant benefit over placebo at some end points and further trials with more appropriate outcome measures are required to evaluate effectively this treatment.

UI  - 21078681
TI  - Efficacy and tolerability of rizatriptan for the treatment of acute migraine in sumatriptan non-responders.
AB  - Rizatriptan 10-mg ODT was superior to placebo at providing two-hour pain relief and two-hour pain freedom in the treatment of acute migraine in those who do not respond to sumatriptan 100mg. Rizatriptan was generally well tolerated in this population.

UI  - 21070230
TI  - Long-term tolerability of telcagepant for acute treatment of migraine in a randomized trial.
AB  - Telcagepant was generally well tolerated when administered for the acute intermittent treatment of migraine for up to 18 months. The incidences of triptan-related and drug-related adverse events favored telcagepant over rizatriptan.

UI  - 21063786
TI  - EuroQol (EQ-5D) health utility scores for patients with migraine.
AB  - Within-attack disutilities estimated for migraine in this study are much greater than those reported for migraine when evaluated as a chronic health condition (e.g., valuations collected at random time points). These data can be of value in adapting results from clinical trials of migraine interventions to cost-utility policy analyses.

UI  - 21059503
TI  - Botulinum toxin type A and acute drug costs in migraine with triptan overuse.
AB  - Botulinum toxin type A prophylactic therapy markedly decreased costs related to acute headache medication use in patients with chronic migraine and triptan overuse.

UI  - 21054362
TI  - Antimigraine efficacy of telcagepant based on patient's historical triptan response.
AB  - This suggests that different patients may respond to triptans or telcagepant 300 mg. Caution should be exercised in interpreting the results because of the post-hoc nature of the analysis (clinical trial registry: NCT00442936).

UI  - 20974601
TI  - Randomized, controlled trial of telcagepant over four migraine attacks.
AB  - Telcagepant 140 mg and 280 mg were effective for treatment of a migraine attack and were more consistently effective than control for intermittent treatment of up to four migraine attacks. Telcagepant was generally well tolerated. (Clinicaltrials.gov; NCT00483704).

UI  - 20965755
TI  - Oral nitric-oxide donor glyceryl-trinitrate induces sensitization in spinal cord pain processing in migraineurs: a double-blind, placebo-controlled, cross-over study.
AB  - Nitric-oxide donor glyceryl-trinitrate (GTN) modulates cerebral and spinal regions that are involved in migraine and pain processing. We hypothesized that in migraineurs, the susceptibility to develop a migraine attack after GTN administration should parallel with an high sensitivity to GTN-induced change in the pain processing at spinal level. We used the temporal summation threshold (TST) of the lower limb nociceptive withdrawal reflex (NWR) and the related pain sensation to study in parallel the time-course of the effect of the GTN administration on the pain processing at spinal level in migraine and healthy subjects. Twenty-eight (21 F; 7M; mean age 34.2  8.2) migraine and 15 (11 F; 4M; mean age 35.9  8.9) healthy subjects were recruited in a double-blind, placebo-controlled, cross-over trial. Neurophysiological examinations were carried out before (baseline) and 30', 60', 120', 180' and 240' after GTN (0.9 mg sublingual) or placebo administration during two different sessions. In migraineurs, GTN administration was associated to a significant facilitation in temporal summation of pain (reduced TST and increased painful sensation) 60', 120' and 180' after drug intake when compared to baseline, to placebo condition and to controls after GTN intake. Furthermore, in migraineurs who developed migraine after GTN, a significant facilitation in temporal summation of pain was detected 60', 120' and 180' after drug intake when compared to patients without clinical response. In migraineurs the susceptibility to develop migraine attack after GTN administration seems to be a specific trait of a subgroup of patients linked to a supersensitivity of the pain system to GTN.

UI  - 20959429
TI  - CGRP receptor antagonist olcegepant (BIBN4096BS) does not prevent glyceryl trinitrate-induced migraine.
AB  - The present study indicates that NO does not induce migraine by liberating CGRP. The most likely explanation for our findings is that CGRP has its effect higher than NO in the cascade of events leading to MO attacks.

UI  - 20959428
TI  - Efficacy and tolerability of a new powdered formulation of diclofenac potassium for oral solution for the acute treatment of migraine: results from the International Migraine Pain Assessment Clinical Trial (IMPACT).
AB  - This study shows that this formulation of diclofenac potassium for oral solution is effective in reducing pain intensity within 30 minutes, which may be related to the 15-minute T(max) associated with this formulation. The rapid-onset benefits were sustained through 24 hours post-treatment.

UI  - 20958294
TI  - Method of injection of onabotulinumtoxinA for chronic migraine: a safe, well-tolerated, and effective treatment paradigm based on the PREEMPT clinical program.
AB  - Chronic migraine (CM) is a prevalent and disabling neurological disorder. Few prophylactic treatments for CM have been investigated. OnabotulinumtoxinA, which inhibits the release of nociceptive mediators, such as glutamate, substance P, and calcitonin gene-related peptide, has been evaluated in randomized, placebo-controlled studies for the preventive treatment of a variety of headache disorders, including CM. These studies have yielded insight into appropriate patient selection, injection sites, dosages, and technique. Initial approaches used a set of fixed sites for the pericranial injections. However, the treatment approach evolved to include other sites that corresponded to the location of pain and tenderness in the individual patient in addition to the fixed sites. The Phase III REsearch Evaluating Migraine Prophylaxis Therapy (PREEMPT) injection paradigm uses both fixed and follow-the-pain sites, with additional specific follow-the-pain sites considered depending on individual symptoms. The PREEMPT paradigm for injecting onabotulinumtoxinA has been shown to be safe, well-tolerated, and effective in well-designed, controlled clinical trials and is the evidence-based approach recommended to optimize clinical outcomes for patients with CM.

UI  - 20937606
TI  - Sustained pain freedom and no adverse events as an endpoint in clinical trials of acute migraine treatments: application to patient-level data from a trial of the CGRP receptor antagonist, telcagepant, and zolmitriptan.
AB  - Composite efficacy-plus-tolerability endpoints may be useful for facilitating comparisons between treatments.

UI  - 20862509
TI  - Rizatriptan reduces vestibular-induced motion sickness in migraineurs.
AB  - A previous pilot study suggested that rizatriptan reduces motion sickness induced by complex vestibular stimulation. In this double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled study we measured motion sickness in response to a complex vestibular stimulus following pretreatment with either rizatriptan or a placebo. Subjects included 25 migraineurs with or without migraine-related dizziness (23 females) aged 21-45 years (31.0  7.8 years). Motion sickness was induced by off-vertical axis rotation in darkness, which stimulates both the semicircular canals and otolith organs of the vestibular apparatus. Results indicated that of the 15 subjects who experienced vestibular-induced motion sickness when pretreated with placebo, 13 showed a decrease in motion sickness following pretreatment with rizatriptan as compared to pretreatment with placebo (P < 0.02). This significant effect was not seen when subjects were exposed to more provocative vestibular stimulation. We conclude that the serotonin agonist, rizatriptan, reduces vestibular-induced motion sickness by influencing serotonergic vestibular-autonomic projections.

UI  - 20855362
TI  - Acute treatment of migraine with the selective 5-HT1F receptor agonist lasmiditan--a randomised proof-of-concept trial.
AB  - At intravenous doses of 20 mg and higher, lasmiditan proved effective in the acute treatment of migraine. Further studies to assess the optimal oral dose and full efficacy and tolerability profile are under way. The non-vascular, neural mechanism of action of lasmiditan may offer an alternative means to treat migraine especially in patients who have contra-indications for agents with vasoconstrictor activity. The clinicaltrials.gov identifier for this study is NCT00384774.

UI  - 20825791
TI  - Postdischarge secobarbital after ED migraine treatment decreases pain and improves resolution.
AB  - Addition of postdischarge oral secobarbital to a standard ED migraine treatment regimen decreased headache pain at 24 hours after discharge and improved the rate of headache resolution compared with placebo.

UI  - 20704458
TI  - Formulation and evaluation of diclofenac potassium fast-disintegrating tablets and their clinical application in migraine patients.
AB  - The aim of this study was to prepare fast-disintegrating tablets (FDTs) of diclofenac potassium with sufficient integrity as well as a pleasant taste, using two different fillers and binders: Tablettose 70() and Di-Pac(). Tablets were made with direct compression method. Tablet properties such as porosity, hardness, and disintegration time were determined. Diclofenac potassium determinations were carried out using a validated spectrophotometric method for the analysis of drug. Furthermore, in vivo experiments were carried out to compare the analgesic effect and the time to relieve migraine headache between the commercial tablets and FDTs of diclofenac potassium against placebo. Results showed that FDTs of diclofenac potassium with durable structure and desirable taste can be prepared using both fillers and binders but tablets prepared with Di-Pac had a better taste so the tablet formulation containing Di-Pac was chosen for in vivo experiments. Placebo controlled in vivo trial demonstrated that 50 mg diclofenac potassium, administered as a single dose of FDTs or commercial tablets, was effective in relieving the pain and both of them were superior to placebo.

UI  - 20686810
TI  - A double-blind, randomized, multicenter, Italian study of frovatriptan versus rizatriptan for the acute treatment of migraine.
AB  - The objective of this study was to assess patient satisfaction with acute treatment of migraine with frovatriptan or rizatriptan by preference questionnaire. 148 subjects with a history of migraine with or without aura (IHS 2004 criteria), with at least one migraine attack per month in the preceding 6 months, were enrolled and randomized to frovatriptan 2.5 mg or rizatriptan 10 mg treating 1-3 attacks. The study had a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, cross-over design, with treatment periods lasting <3 months. At the end of the study, patients assigned preference to one of the treatments using a questionnaire with a score from 0 to 5 (primary endpoint). Secondary endpoints were pain-free and pain relief episodes at 2 h, and recurrent and sustained pain-free episodes within 48 h. 104 of the 125 patients (83%, intention-to-treat population) expressed a preference for a triptan. The average preference score was not significantly different between frovatriptan (2.91.3) and rizatriptan (3.21.1). The rates of pain-free (33% frovatriptan vs. 39% rizatriptan) and pain relief (55 vs. 62%) episodes at 2 h were not significantly different between the two treatments. The rate of recurrent episodes was significantly (p<0.001) lower under frovatriptan (21 vs. 43% rizatriptan). No significant differences were observed in sustained pain-free episodes (26% frovatriptan vs. 22% rizatriptan). The number of patients with adverse events was not significantly different between rizatriptan (34) and frovatriptan (25, p=NS). The results suggest that frovatriptan has a similar efficacy to rizatriptan, but a more prolonged duration of action.

UI  - 20660540
TI  - Almotriptan 12.5 mg in menstrually related migraine: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study.
AB  - Almotriptan was significantly more effective than placebo in women with MRM attacks, with consistent efficacy in longer-term follow-up.

UI  - 20656704
TI  - Intranasal sumatriptan powder delivered by a novel breath-actuated bi-directional device for the acute treatment of migraine: A randomised, placebo-controlled study.
AB  - Sumatriptan nasal powder administered using the new device during a migraine attack was effective and well tolerated.

UI  - 20650999
TI  - Perimenstrual migraines and their response to preventive therapy with topiramate.
AB  - Topiramate reduces the frequency, but not severity or duration, of perimenstrual migraines in women with MRM, including migraines with and without aura, and regardless of combined oral contraceptive use.

UI  - 20647175
TI  - Quantifying the return of headache in triptan-treated migraineurs: an observational study.
AB  - To improve understanding of secondary treatment failure in migraine patients, we evaluated 'headache return' as a novel endpoint to assess returning headaches according to their severity, expanding on current standard assessments of overall recurrence or relapse rates, in a six-month observational study of triptan-treated migraineurs. A total of 359 patients (91% female; mean age, 42.5 years) recorded data for 2168 headaches in electronic diaries. Two-thirds of headaches responded to triptan treatment (improved-to-mild or no pain two hours post-dose); 34% of headaches had a pain-free response. By 48 hours post-dose, 19% of all responding headaches returned; 24% of headaches achieving a pain-free response returned, predominantly to mild pain. More severe baseline headache, short duration since diagnosis of migraine, and female gender were associated with increased likelihood of headache return. Treatment satisfaction declined with increasing severity of headache return, demonstrating the value of assessing headache return by severity to fully evaluate its impact.

UI  - 20647171
TI  - OnabotulinumtoxinA for treatment of chronic migraine: results from the double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled phase of the PREEMPT 2 trial.
AB  - The results of PREEMPT 2 demonstrate that onabotulinumtoxinA is effective for prophylaxis of headache in adults with chronic migraine. Repeated onabotulinumtoxinA treatments were safe and well tolerated.

UI  - 20647170
TI  - OnabotulinumtoxinA for treatment of chronic migraine: results from the double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled phase of the PREEMPT 1 trial.
AB  - There was no between-group difference for the primary endpoint, headache episodes. However, significant reductions from baseline were observed for onabotulinumtoxinA for headache and migraine days, cumulative hours of headache on headache days and frequency of moderate/severe headache days, which in turn reduced the burden of illness in adults with disabling chronic migraine.

UI  - 20584227
TI  - Efficacy of almotriptan in early intervention for treatment of acute migraine in a primary care setting: the START study.
AB  - In the primary care setting, early intervention with almotriptan for treatment of migraine provides significant clinical benefits compared with delaying treatment and/or waiting until pain intensity has progressed beyond mild.

UI  - 20569223
TI  - Intravenous sodium valproate aborts migraine headaches rapidly.
AB  - Intravenous Sodium Valproate (iVPA) seems to be safe and rapidly effective for intractable migraine attack. Randomized, double-blinded, controlled studies are warranted.

UI  - 20546320
TI  - Long-term, open-label safety study of oral almotriptan 12.5 mg for the acute treatment of migraine in adolescents.
AB  - Almotriptan 12.5 mg was well tolerated in this adolescent population over a 12-month period. No unexpected safety or tolerability concerns were revealed over the course of this study. The results are consistent with almotriptan 12.5 mg being effective for the acute treatment of pain and symptoms associated with migraine in both younger and older adolescents.

UI  - 20528213
TI  - Sumatriptan (50 mg tablets vs. 25 mg suppositories) in the acute treatment of menstrually related migraine and oral contraceptive-induced menstrual migraine: a pilot study.
AB  - Migraine attacks are common in the perimenstrual period (menstrually-related migraine, MRM) and can be particularly exacerbated by the cyclic suspension of oral contraceptives (oral contraceptive-induced menstrual migraine, OCMM). This cross-over, randomised study evaluated the efficacy and tolerability of rectal (25mg) and oral (50mg) sumatriptan in the treatment of 232 menstrual migraine attacks (135 MRM and 97 OCMM). Two hours after suppository administration, 72% of patients in the MRM group achieved pain relief and 24% were pain free; after tablet administration, the percentages were 66% and 27%, respectively. In the OCMM group 55% of patients improved at 2h with suppositories and 46% with tablets, 27% of patients were pain-free after suppositories and 18% after tablets. Fifty percent of patients given suppositories were pain-free at 4h post-treatment and 47% of those given tablets. Sumatriptan also effectively alleviated symptoms associated with migraine, such as nausea, vomiting and photo/phonophobia. A single dose of medication sufficed for pain relief without relapse in 47.4% of the attacks (MRM: 66%; OCMM: 33%). Both formulations were well tolerated.

UI  - 20511208
TI  - Migraine recurrence is not associated with depressive or anxiety symptoms. Results of a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - In order to investigate the plausible association of migraine recurrence with anxiety and depressive symptoms, a multicentre, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover clinical trial was conducted using sumatriptan as a vehicle drug. Migraineurs were randomly assigned to receive either 50 mg sumatriptan or placebo for three consecutive migraine attacks, and then cross over to the other treatment for three more migraine attacks. The primary measurements were the observed rate of migraine recurrence in relation to (i) patient's mood condition, measured by the Hamilton rating scales for depression and anxiety and (ii) patient's general health and functioning measured by the Symptom Checklist (SCL)-90-R. Migraine recurrence was defined as any migrainous headache that occurred within 24 h post treatment, only when pain free at 2 h was achieved. The analysis of efficacy was performed on 376 migraine attacks treated with sumatriptan and 373 attacks treated with placebo. Recurrence ratio was 14.1% and 5.1%, respectively (P = 0.045). The number needed to treat for pain free at 2 h post dose was 5.4. Recurrence was not affected by Hamilton scores for depression or anxiety, SCL-90-R scores or treatment. Apparently, depressive or anxiety symptoms do not influence headache recurrence in acute pharmaceutical migraine treatment, but further investigation is required.

UI  - 20488209
TI  - The serotonin transporter gene polymorphism STin2 VNTR confers an increased risk of inconsistent response to triptans in migraine patients.
AB  - The aim of the present observational study was to assess the value of the C825T polymorphism of the beta-3 subunit of G proteins (GNB3) as well as of variants in the SLC6A4 gene (5HTTLPR and STin2 VNTR) and DRD2 gene (TaqI A and NcoI) as predictive markers for consistency in headache response to triptans in migraine patients. Consistent responders to triptans were defined as the migraineurs who experienced a > or =2 point reduction in a 4-point scale intensity of pain from 3 (severe) to 0 (absent) 2h after triptan administration, in at least two attacks out of the three. Genotyping was performed by PCR and PCR-RFLP on genomic DNA extracted from peripheral blood. The impact of clinical and biological variables on consistency status of headache response to triptans was evaluated by using a binary logistic regression model with stepwise selection. Forty-three (33%) of the 130 migraine patients included in the study did not consistently respond to triptan administration. In a binary logistic regression model, STin 2.12/12 genotype (OR=3.363, 95% CI: 1.262-8.966, P=0.005) and non-use of migraine prophylactic medications (OR=2.848, 95% CI: 1.019-7.959, P=0.010) were found as significant factors increasing the odds of achieving inconsistent response to triptans. The analysis of classificatory power of the model showed moderate values of sensitivity (0.56), high specificity (0.87), and an overall prediction correctness (0.77). These results support the role of STin2 VNTR polymorphism of serotonin transporter gene as a relevant genetic factor conferring a higher risk of inconsistent response to triptans in migraine patients.

UI  - 20464599
TI  - Evolution of migraine-associated symptoms in menstrually related migraine following symptomatic treatment with almotriptan.
AB  - In addition to headache, migraine is characterized by a series of symptoms that negatively affects the quality of life of patients. Generally, these are represented by nausea, vomiting, photophobia, phonophobia and osmophobia, with a cumulative percentage of the onset in about 90% of the patients. From this point of view, menstrually related migraine--a particularly difficult-to-treat form of primary headache--is no different from other forms of migraine. Symptomatic treatment should therefore be evaluated not only in terms of headache relief, but also by considering its effect on these migraine-associated symptoms (MAS). Starting from the data collected in a recently completed multicentre, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, cross-over study with almotriptan in menstrually related migraine, an analysis of the effect of this drug on the evolution of MAS was performed. Data suggest that almotriptan shows excellent efficacy on MAS in comparison to the placebo, with a significant reduction in the percentages of suffering patients over a 2-h period of time.

UI  - 20464583
TI  - Frovatriptan versus zolmitriptan for the acute treatment of migraine: a double-blind, randomized, multicenter, Italian study.
AB  - The objective of this study is to assess patients' satisfaction with migraine treatment with frovatriptan (F) or zolmitriptan (Z), by preference questionnaire. 133 subjects with a history of migraine with or without aura (IHS criteria) were randomized to F 2.5 mg or Z 2.5 mg. The study had a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, cross-over design, with each of the two treatment periods lasting no more than 3 months. At the end of the study, patients were asked to assign preference to one of the treatments (primary endpoint). The number of pain-free (PF) and pain-relief (PR) episodes at 2 h, and number of recurrent and sustained pain-free (SPF) episodes within 48 h were the secondary study endpoints. Seventy-seven percent of patients expressed a preference. Average score of preference was 2.9 +/- 1.3 (F) versus 3.0 +/- 1.3 (Z; p = NS). Rate of PF episodes at 2 h was 26% with F and 31% with Z (p = NS). PR episodes at 2 h were 57% for F and 58% for Z (p = NS). Rate of recurrence was 21 (F) and 24% (Z; p = NS). Time to recurrence within 48 h was better for F especially between 4 and 16 h (p < 0.05). SPF episodes were 18 (F) versus 22% (Z; p = NS). Drug-related adverse events were significantly (p < 0.05) less under F (3 vs. 10). In conclusion, our study suggests that F has a similar efficacy of Z, with some advantage as regards tolerability and recurrence.

UI  - 20456192
TI  - Capsaicin jelly against migraine pain.
AB  - Although referring to a small number of patients, our data show that topical capsaicin may relieve arterial pain in absence of and during a migraine attack in a substantial number of patients experiencing scalp arterial tenderness. More active capsacinoids might be tried in the future and could provide a new method for treating migraine attacks.

UI  - 20456191
TI  - Cutaneous application of menthol 10% solution as an abortive treatment of migraine without aura: a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossed-over study.
AB  - Menthol solution can be an efficacious, safe and tolerable therapeutic option for the abortive treatment of migraine.

UI  - 20429318
TI  - Real-life experiences in migraine therapy.
AB  - In this real-life setting, eletriptan displayed high efficacy, consistency of response over three attacks and was preferred by 97% patients (Tab. 2, Fig. 5, Ref. 16). Full Text (Free, PDF) www.bmj.sk.

UI  - 20399553
TI  - Botulinum toxin type A versus amitriptyline for the treatment of chronic daily migraine.
AB  - Botulinum toxin type A was as effective as amitriptyline for the prophylactic treatment of chronic daily migraines.

UI  - 20353434
TI  - Changes in salivary prostaglandin levels during menstrual migraine with associated dysmenorrhea.
AB  - Data from this pilot study provide evidence that saliva levels of several prostaglandins increase during attacks of MMaD and that treatment with a single tablet combination of sumatriptan and naproxen sodium prevents elevation of prostaglandin levels.

UI  - 20303198
TI  - Treating headache recurrence after emergency department discharge: a randomized controlled trial of naproxen versus sumatriptan.
AB  - In this trial, nearly three quarters of patients reported headache recurrence within 48 hours of ED discharge. Naproxen 500 mg and sumatriptan 100 mg taken orally relieve post-ED recurrent primary headache and migraine comparably. Clinicians should be guided by medication costs, contraindications, and a patient's previous experience with the medication.

UI  - 20236342
TI  - A randomized, placebo-controlled trial of acetaminophen for treatment of migraine headache.
AB  - Acetaminophen 1000 mg, a nonprescription drug, is an effective and well-tolerated treatment for episodic and moderate migraine headache. In addition, acetaminophen generally provided a beneficial effect on associated symptoms of migraine including nausea, photophobia, phonophobia, and functional disability.

UI  - 20236340
TI  - Characteristics of menstrual vs nonmenstrual migraine: a post hoc, within-woman analysis of the usual-care phase of a nonrandomized menstrual migraine clinical trial.
AB  - Post hoc, within-woman analysis of migraine treatment episodes categorized based on International Headache Society criteria showed that menstrual treatment episodes were more impairing, longer lasting, and more likely to relapse than nonmenstrual treatment episodes in this selected population of women with frequent menstrual migraine. The current analysis indicates that most of the variability in these outcomes is due to differences between headache types and not within-patient differences for a given type of headache, suggesting that menstrual episodes are potentially treatable. These findings underscore the differences between menstrual and nonmenstrual episodes of migraine and the need to offer effective migraine treatment to women.

UI  - 20236338
TI  - A prospective comparison between ICHD-II and probability menstrual migraine diagnostic criteria.
AB  - Prospective headache diaries are needed to diagnose MM. A probability-based method, which considers the chance occurrence of headaches during the menstrual cycle, identifies fewer women as having menstrually related migraine compared with the diary-based methods recommended by the current ICHD-II candidate criteria.

UI  - 20236337
TI  - Perimenstrual eletriptan prevents menstrual migraine: an open-label study.
AB  - Among patients with prospectively identified MM, eletriptan 20 mg 3 times daily effectively reduced MM. A significant reduction in headache activity occurred for 53% of patients.

UI  - 20173082
TI  - Single- and multiple-dose pharmacokinetics and tolerability of telcagepant, an oral calcitonin gene-related peptide receptor antagonist, in adults.
AB  - Telcagepant is a novel, orally active, and selective calcitonin gene-related peptide receptor antagonist being developed for acute treatment of migraine with and without aura. Three separate clinical studies were conducted to evaluate the pharmacokinetics and tolerability of telcagepant following single oral doses in healthy young and elderly men and women and multiple oral doses in men. Telcagepant was rapidly absorbed with a time to maximum concentration of approximately 1.5 hours. The terminal half-life was approximately 6 hours. A greater than dose-proportional increase was observed in the area under the plasma concentration versus time curve from zero to infinity. Following twice-daily dosing, with each dose separated by 2 hours, steady state was achieved in approximately 3 to 4 days with an accumulation ratio of approximately 2. There were no clinically meaningful pharmacokinetic differences when compared across age and gender. Telcagepant was generally well tolerated up to single doses of 1200 mg and multiple doses of 400 mg twice daily.

UI  - 20159428
TI  - Cognitive effects of topiramate in migraine patients aged 12 through 17 years.
AB  - Neuropsychologic data are presented from a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter study with placebo, topiramate 50 mg/day, and topiramate 100 mg/day. The Cambridge Neuropsychological Test Automated Battery (CANTAB) and cognitive adverse events were used to evaluate neurocognitive effects of topiramate. Topiramate 100 mg/day vs placebo was associated with slight statistically significant score increases, indicating slowing, from baseline vs placebo in three CANTAB measures: five-choice reaction time (P = 0.028), pattern recognition memory mean correct latency (P = 0.027), and rapid visual information processing mean latency (P = 0.040). No other patterns related to topiramate treatment were observed in measurements of learning, memory, and visual information processing, except for potential improvement with topiramate 100 mg/day vs placebo in spatial span total errors (accuracy test) (P = 0.040). The most common cognitive and neuropsychiatric adverse events with a higher incidence in the topiramate 50 and 100 mg/day groups vs placebo were anorexia (9% and 11% vs 3%), insomnia (9% and 3% vs 3%), fatigue (6% and 9% vs 6%), and dizziness (6% and 9% vs 0%). Thus, topiramate 100 mg/day was associated with modest increases in psychomotor reaction times. Learning, memory, and executive function were unchanged. The tolerability profile, including cognitive adverse events, appeared to be acceptable.

UI  - 20146184
TI  - [Zonisamide in the preventive treatment of refractory migraine].
AB  - These results, obtained in a big sample of patients refractory or intolerant to topiramate and other preventatives, indicate that, at least in conditions of daily clinical practice, zonisamide, at relatively low dosages, is an option to be considered for the preventive treatment of patients with frequent migraine.

UI  - 20140543
TI  - Frovatriptan in the practice of office-based neurologists/pain therapists: Results of postmarketing surveillance study ALADIN.
AB  - Frovatriptan, with fast onset of action and low rate of headache recurrence, was efficacious and well accepted by migraineurs attending neurologists or pain therapists. Approximately 80% of patients wished to continue migraine treatment with frovatriptan.

UI  - 20132340
TI  - Distinct pharmacokinetic profile and safety of a fixed-dose tablet of sumatriptan and naproxen sodium for the acute treatment of migraine.
AB  - The combination tablet of sumatriptan/naproxen sodium has unique pharmacokinetic properties. The rapid absorption of sumatriptan with the delayed-release properties of naproxen sodium from sumatriptan/naproxen sodium might contribute to its therapeutic advantage over monotherapy with either component. No clinically meaningful effects of food, administration during a migraine attack, or administration of a second tablet (2 hours after initial dose) on the pharmacokinetics or safety of sumatriptan/naproxen sodium were observed.

UI  - 20132337
TI  - Outpatient home-based continuous intravenous dihydroergotamine therapy for intractable migraine.
AB  - Efficacy and safety of our outpatient home-based intravenous dihydroergotamine program compared favorably to that of established inpatient intravenous pulse injection and continuous infusion protocols for the treatment of intractable migraine. The use of outpatient continuous intravenous dihydroergotamine is an effective and well-tolerated therapy for intractable migraine but without the added cost and inconvenience of hospitalization.

UI  - 20069203
TI  - A double-blind randomized controlled trial of low doses of propranolol, nortriptyline, and the combination of propranolol and nortriptyline for the preventive treatment of migraine.
AB  - Few trials have evaluated combination of two or more drugs in the preventive treatment of migraine. In this study three therapeutic regimens were compared: (a) propranolol, at a dose of 40 mg per day, (b) nortriptyline, at a dose of 20 mg per day, and (c) the combination of these two drugs in these dosages. The groups were matched according to age, gender, and frequency of migraine attacks prior to treatment. The period of treatment was two months and the frequency and intensity of headache attacks of the 30 days pre-treatment period were compared with the frequency of headaches in the treatment period. Fourteen patients in groups A and B and sixteen patients in group C have completed the study. Treatment with propranolol, alone or in combination, was shown to be effective. Treatment with nortriptyline alone was not effective. All three therapeutic regimens were safe and side effects were minimal. The frequency of discontinuation of the study was the same in the 3 groups but no patient left the study due to adverse reactions. The combined therapy proved to be as safe as the monotherapy. Further studies evaluating this and other possible combinations of drugs in higher doses and for longer periods, should more clearly elucidate the role of combined therapy in the treatment of migraine.

UI  - 20045576
TI  - A prospective, randomized trial of intravenous prochlorperazine versus subcutaneous sumatriptan in acute migraine therapy in the emergency department.
AB  - IV prochlorperazine with diphenhydramine is superior to subcutaneous sumatriptan in the treatment of migraine.

UI  - 20037525
TI  - [Trimigren in stopping migraine attacks: an open prospective multicenter comparative study of rectal suppository and tablet forms of sumatriptan].
AB  - Efficacy and safety of sumatriptan in rectal suppository (50 mg) and tablet forms (50 mg) in stopping migraine attacks has been studied in 80 patients with migraine with or without aura. Dynamics of migraine pain intensity measured with the VAS 30 min, 1, 2, 6 and 24 h after the first dose of drug was a primary index of efficacy. Secondary indices were the VAS intensity of nausea, vomiting, photophobia, phonophobia, duration of each migraine attack, quality of life parameters of a patient during the migraine attack assessed with the 24-hour questionnaire, severity of migraine course on the MIDAS, percentage of patients with complete regression of migraine pain, at least in 2 out of 3 attacks. To assess drug safety, any adverse effects, data of instrumental methods (clinical and biochemical blood tests, clinical urine test), EKG were taken into account. Rectal suppository had the more rapid effect on headache reduction compared to tablets. Changes of intensity of concomitant symptoms (nausea, vomiting, photophobia, phonophobia) as well as other secondary indices of drug efficacy were similar in both groups. In the group treated with rectal suppository, 9 (22.5%) patients had 12 adverse effects. In the group treated with tablets, 22 adverse effects were noted in 15 (37.5%) patients. Adverse effects related to the cardio-vascular system were observed less often in the group treated with rectal suppository (6.6 and 32%, respectively, p=0,004).

UI  - 19943469
TI  - Comparison of treatment effect of sodium valproate, propranolol and tricyclic antidepressants in migraine.
AB  - This study was conducted to evaluate and compare the efficacy and treatment effect of sodium valprovate with propranolol and tricyclic antidepressive drugs. This piece is a rarandomized clinical trial conducted on 126 migraine patients admitted to brain and nerves clinic in Arak, Iran. Patients were divided in two groups then randomized to study treatments. Data were gathered using a checklist and a complete examination. They were analyzed by Chi square and exact test. In patients with normal and abnormal encephalogram the effectiveness rate of two treatments were 35, 61.9, 95.6 and 28.6%, respectively. This difference between two treatments was statistically significant (p<0.001). But didn't observe significant differences between two sex groups (p>0.05). For treatment and control of the migraine, in patients with normal encephalogram, propranolol with tricyclic antidepressive drugs advised and for abnormal encephalogram sodium valprovate can be the better treatment for management and reduction of headache attacks.

UI  - 19925626
TI  - Subcutaneous sumatriptan pharmacokinetics: delimiting the monoamine oxidase inhibitor effect.
AB  - There are no pharmacokinetic grounds to deter co-administration of an MAOI-A and subcutaneous sumatriptan. The dominance of the distribution phase and completeness of absorption of a 6 mg dose of s.c. sumatriptan explains the trivial effect size of the MAOI-A on plasma sumatriptan concentrations. Importantly, these findings should not be extrapolated to other routes of administration for sumatriptan.

UI  - 19920719
TI  - A comparison of migraine patients with and without allodynic symptoms.
AB  - Allodynic symptoms occurred in 57.1% patients with migraine. In allodynic patients with moderate-to-severe headache, rizatriptan resulted in greater pain relief compared with ibuprofen. These results need further confirmation in larger study.

UI  - 19912346
TI  - A double-blind comparison of onabotulinumtoxina (BOTOX) and topiramate (TOPAMAX) for the prophylactic treatment of chronic migraine: a pilot study.
AB  - OnabotulinumtoxinA and topiramate demonstrated similar efficacy in the prophylactic treatment of CM. Patients receiving onabotulinumtoxinA had fewer AEs and discontinuations.

UI  - 19895705
TI  - Efficacy and tolerability of intravenous methylergonovine in migraine female patients attending the emergency department: a pilot open-label study.
AB  - Although limited by the non-controlled design of the study, our data suggest that intravenous methylergonovine can be an effective and safe drug in the management of severe migraine attacks in the emergency room.

UI  - 19849720
TI  - Needle-free subcutaneous sumatriptan (Sumavel DosePro): bioequivalence and ease of use.
AB  - Sumavel DosePro needle-free delivery system is a new presentation of s.c. sumatriptan that delivers drug effectively, is bioequivalent to the existing needle auto-injector when used at the thigh or abdomen, and is easy to use.

UI  - 19846269
TI  - Steroids for migraine headaches: a randomized double-blind, two-armed, placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - We did not find a statistically significant decrease in headache recurrence in patients treated with steroids for migraine headaches.

UI  - 19817885
TI  - Expanding access to triptans: assessment of clinical outcome.
AB  - Providing a greater quantity of rizatriptan ODT 10 mg did not reduce the number of migraine days compared with providing 9 tablets per month for this population with episodic migraine with a frequency of 3-8 migraines per month. Regardless of quantity provided, rizatriptan was generally well tolerated.

UI  - 19804392
TI  - Topiramate for migraine prevention in a naturalistic setting: results from an open label, flexible dose study.
AB  - Topiramate used for migraine prevention in non-academic institutions is generally safe, well tolerated and results in good control of migraine headaches and improvement in several aspects of quality of life.

UI  - 19804390
TI  - The safety of sumatriptan and naratriptan in pregnancy: what have we learned?
AB  - The risk of all major birth defects following first-trimester exposure to sumatriptan was 4.6% (95% CI 2.9-7.2%). This coupled with a consistent failure of additional epidemiological studies to observe a signal for major teratogenicity gives a level of reassurance concerning the safety of sumatriptan in pregnancy. There are too few data on naratriptan to draw definitive conclusions, and the sample size for sumatriptan remains too small to detect any but very large increases in specific birth defects.

UI  - 19788471
TI  - Safety and tolerability of short-term preventive frovatriptan: a combined analysis.
AB  - During treatment of up to 12 perimenstrual periods over a 12- to 15-month period, the safety and tolerability of frovatriptan for short-term prevention of menstrual migraine was similar to that observed with acute use of triptans. Adverse events were generally mild or moderate in severity, there was no evidence of an increased risk of cardiovascular adverse events relative to acute treatment, and rebound headache was not evident. A short-term regimen with frovatriptan presents a safe and viable treatment option for preventing predictable migraine such as menstrual migraine.

UI  - 19788470
TI  - Variation in almotriptan effectiveness according to different prophylactic treatments.
AB  - Our results displayed a higher efficacy of almotriptan in propranolol group and we hypothesized it may be due to a common mechanism of action at serotoninergic receptors.

UI  - 19788468
TI  - Elevated saliva calcitonin gene-related peptide levels during acute migraine predict therapeutic response to rizatriptan.
AB  - Elevation of saliva CGRP is predictive of responsiveness to rizatriptan. In the rizatriptan responsive population, CGRP levels are elevated beginning with the premonitory period and throughout mild and moderate/severe headache. Successful response to rizatriptan correlated with return of saliva CGRP levels to near baseline (interictal) values.

UI  - 19778164
TI  - Postmarketing migraine survey of frovatriptan: effectiveness and tolerability vs previous triptans, NSAIDs or a combination.
AB  - Intrapatient comparisons showed that most patients with migraine reported significantly improved effectiveness and tolerability ratings with frovatriptan versus previous acute therapies.

UI  - 19770473
TI  - Randomized, controlled trial of telcagepant for the acute treatment of migraine.
AB  - This study confirmed previous findings that telcagepant 300 mg was effective at relieving pain and other migraine symptoms at 2 hours and providing sustained pain freedom up to 24 hours. In this study, telcagepant 150 mg was also effective. Telcagepant was generally well tolerated.

UI  - 19751371
TI  - Scheduled short-term prevention with frovatriptan for migraine occurring exclusively in association with menstruation.
AB  - Scheduled short-term preventive frovatriptan therapy effectively reduced the occurrence of menstrual migraine in women with attacks occurring exclusively in association with menstruation.

UI  - 19740120
TI  - Nitroglycerin provocation in normal subjects is not a useful human migraine model?
AB  - Provoking delayed migraine with nitroglycerin in migraine sufferers is a cumbersome model. Patients are difficult to recruit, migraine comes on late and variably and only 50-80% of patients develop an attack. A model using normal volunteers would be much more useful, but it should be validated by testing the response to drugs of known efficacy in acute migraine. Furthermore, treatment during headache rather than pretreatment is the most naturalist method. To fulfil these requirements we used continuous long-lasting infusion of glyceryl trinitrate (GTN) 0.2 microg kg-1 min-1 for 140 min and gave aspirin 1000 mg, zolmitriptan 5 mg or placebo to normal healthy volunteers. The design was double-blind, placebo-controlled three-way crossover. Our hypothesis was that these drugs would be effective in the treatment of the mild constant headache induced by long-lasting GTN infusion. The headaches did not fulfil the International Headache Society diagnostic criteria for migraine without aura. Moreover, there was no effect on headache of either zolmitriptan or aspirin. Thus our hypothesis was disproved and we conclude that our model is not valid for the testing of new acute antimigraine drugs. Our experiment suggests that headache caused by direct nitric oxide (NO) action in the continued presence of NO is very resistance to analgesics and to specific acute migraine treatments. This suggests that NO works very deep in the cascade of events associated with vascular headache, whereas tested drugs work higher in the cascade. The model suggested here should therefore be tested with other headache/migraine-provoking agents that supposedly work higher in the cascade of events. The need for human models persists, but the solution to this problem is still pending.

UI  - 19415441
TI  - Efficacy of Ginkgolide B in the prophylaxis of migraine with aura.
AB  - In a multicentric, open, preliminary trial, we evaluated the use of ginkgolide B, a herbal constituent extract from Ginkgo biloba tree leaves, in the prophylactic treatment of migraine with aura (MA). Fifty women suffering from migraine with typical aura, or migraine aura without headache, diagnosed according to International Headache Society criteria, entered a six-month study. They underwent a two month run-in period free of prophylactic drugs, followed by a four month treatment period (subdivided into two bimesters, TI and TII) with a combination of 60 mg ginkgo biloba terpenes phytosome, 11 mg coenzyme Q 10, and 8.7 mg vitamin B2 (Migrasoll), administered twice daily. A detailed diary reporting neurological symptoms, duration, and frequency of MA was compiled by patients throughout the trial. The number of MA significantly decreased during treatment (from 3.7 +/- 2.2 in the run-in period, to 2.0 +/- 1.9 during TI and to 1.2 +/- 1.6 during TII; Anova for repeated measures: P < 0.0001). There was also a statistically significant decrease in the average MA duration, which was 40.4 +/- 19.4 min during run-in, 28.2 +/- 19.9 during TI, and 17.6 +/- 20.6 during TII. Total disappearance of MA was observed in 11.1% patients during TI and in 42.2% of patients during T2. No serious adverse event was provoked by Migrasoll administration. Ginkgolide B is effective in reducing MA frequency and duration. The effect is clearly evident in the first bimester of treatment and is further enhanced during the second.

UI  - 19723122
TI  - Tonabersat, a gap-junction modulator: efficacy and safety in two randomized, placebo-controlled, dose-ranging studies of acute migraine.
AB  - Tonabersat is a novel benzopyran derivative that blocks the cortical spreading depression proposed to be associated with migraine attacks. The ability of single oral doses of 15, 25, 40 and 80 mg of tonabersat to relieve the symptoms of moderate to severe migraine was evaluated in 859 migraineurs enrolled in two dose-ranging, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, parallel-group trials, one international and the other North American. In the international study, significantly more patients given tonabersat than given placebo experienced relief of headache pain at 2 h (15 mg, 36.8%; 40 mg, 40.7%), the principal efficacy variable, and at 4 h (40 mg, 63.0%) and complete abolition of headache at 4 h (40 mg, 34.3%). None of the primary or secondary efficacy variables indicated significant differences between tonabersat and placebo in the North American study. Tonabersat was generally well tolerated, with dizziness and nausea the most common side-effects. Serious adverse events were uncommon, and no patient withdrew from either study because of adverse events. These results suggest a possible interplay between tonabersat pharmacokinetics (the relatively long time required to reach maximum plasma concentrations) and patient characteristics (previous triptan exposure) in the management of acute migraine attacks. Based on the pharmacokinetics and actions on cortical spreading depression, tonabersat may have potential value in migraine prophylaxis.

UI  - 19723121
TI  - Efficacy and safety of tonabersat, a gap-junction modulator, in the acute treatment of migraine: a double-blind, parallel-group, randomized study.
AB  - The ability of tonabersat to relieve the symptoms of migraine attacks with or without aura was evaluated in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicentre, parallel-group study. Patients received 20 or 40 mg of tonabersat, or 50 mg of sumatriptan (positive control), or placebo at the onset of a moderate or severe attack. Headache intensity, relief and recurrence were recorded for 24 h after dosing. On the basis of primary or secondary efficacy measures, tonabersat did not provide a clinically or statistically significant advantage over placebo. Tonabersat generally was well tolerated and had no effect on vital signs, electrocardiogram recordings or laboratory values. The lack of efficacy may be a function of the slow absorption of tonabersat. As a consequence of slow absorption, daily administration of tonabersat as prophylaxis for migraine attacks is under investigation in ongoing studies.

UI  - 19719543
TI  - Topiramate treatment of chronic migraine: a randomized, placebo-controlled trial of quality of life and other efficacy measures.
AB  - In addition to significantly reducing mean monthly migraine/migrainous and migraine headache days, treatment of chronic migraine with topiramate was effective with regard to several traditionally important and clinically relevant secondary outcomes in migraine prevention trials. Treatment with topiramate was well tolerated and not associated with serious adverse events.

UI  - 19703372
TI  - Rapid absorption of sumatriptan powder and effects on glyceryl trinitrate model of headache following intranasal delivery using a novel bi-directional device.
AB  - Administration of sumatriptan intranasally at doses of 10 mg and 20 mg by the breath actuated bi-directional powder delivery device results in rapid absorption. Delivery to target sites beyond the nasal valve induced a similar EEG profile to subcutaneous sumatriptan 6 mg and prevented migraine attacks in patients following GTN challenge. Intranasal administration of sumatriptan powder with the breath actuated bi-directional powder delivery device was well tolerated.

UI  - 19682021
TI  - Treatment of migraine in Australian Emergency Departments.
AB  - 

UI  - 19680473
TI  - A pilot study of rizatriptan and visually-induced motion sickness in migraineurs.
AB  - These pilot data suggest that rizatriptan does not consistently reduce visually-induced motion sickness in migraineurs. Rizatriptan may diminish motion sickness potentiation by cranial pain.

UI  - 19667978
TI  - Escitalopram and venlafaxine for the prophylaxis of migraine headache without mood disorders.
AB  - There is evidence that some antidepressant drugs are beneficial in the prophylaxis of migraine. Previous reports have shown that migraine patients may respond to various antidepressant agents used for prophylactic therapy. The main purpose of this study was to compare the efficacy of antidepressants from 2 different groups (venlafaxine vs escitalopram) on people who had migraine headache without depression or anxiety. In this prospective study, we evaluated the headache diaries of 93 patients who were being treated with venlafaxine (n = 35) and escitalopram (n = 58). At the end of the 3-month period, patients were reassessed, and those with marked differences in attack frequency, duration, intensity (with visual analog scales), lost work-day equivalent index, and migraine disability assessment questionnaire were compared. There was a clear reduction in headache frequency (P < 0.0001), duration (P < 0.0001), and severity (P < 0.0001) in the venlafaxine group. In addition, there was a significant improvement in daily work performance during headaches (P < 0.0001). In the escitalopram group, monthly headache frequency (P < 0.026), duration (P < 0.002), and intensity (P < 0.027) all decreased significantly, although not to the same extent as with venlafaxine. After the third month of venlafaxine and escitalopram treatment, most of the patients (82.8% vs 96.5%) were seen to have moved to the minimal or infrequent migraine disability assessment group. According to our findings, venlafaxine and escitalopram are both effective in the prophylaxis of migraine headache without depression and anxiety. This effect was independent of mood disorder. Escitalopram should be the first choice because of its fewer side effects, but venlafaxine may be used if escitalopram is found to be insufficient.

UI  - 19656221
TI  - Clinical assessment of topiramate therapy in patients with migrainous vertigo.
AB  - In the overall group, topiramate was found to be effective in reducing the frequency and the severity of vertigo and headache attacks. Both doses of the drug were equally efficacious. The 50 mg/day dose seems to be appropriate as higher adverse effects were noted when 100 mg/day was used.

UI  - 19622115
TI  - IL-6 levels in migraine patients receiving topiramate.
AB  - There is considerable evidence suggesting that cytokines play important roles in pain and in mediating neurovascular inflammation associated with migraine headaches. Although consensus exists to recommend topiramate (TPM) for migraine prevention, the mechanism of action in this regard is unknown. We measured serum interleukin-6 (IL-6) levels in 66 migraine patients. Of these patients, 23 (34.9%) were taking TPM for migraine, and 43 (65.1%) were not. The IL-6 levels were compared with those of healthy controls without migraine, from the population living in the same region. The mean IL-6 levels in migraine patients taking TPM and patients who did not were 67.06 +/- 92.09 pg/mL and 44.09 +/- 59.19 pg/mL, respectively (P > 0.05). The IL-6 levels were higher in the patients taking TPM. The IL-6 level in the controls was 8.60 +/- 7.36 pg/mL, which was significantly lower than the patient group using TPM (P = 0.001). Our results show that, although IL-6 may be involved in pain induction or inflammatory mechanisms of migraine attacks, the serum IL-6 level was not reduced in migraine patients receiving TPM therapy. In conclusion, we found high IL-6 levels in migraine patients both with and without TPM therapy, suggesting that high IL-6 levels during pain-free periods could be a conditioning factor, making patients more vulnerable to pain attacks in chronic migraine. Further studies investigating the possible mechanism of TPM in migraine are needed.

UI  - 19614965
TI  - Prednisolone reduces nitric oxide-induced migraine.
AB  - Pre-treatment with prednisolone did not reduce the immediate GTN-induced headache, did not inhibit the frequency of delayed headache but significantly decreased the intensity of delayed GTN-induced headache. These findings suggest that GTN causes induction of inflammatory mediators, and that this is the mechanism of delayed GTN-induced migraine. They also support a role of inflammatory mediators in spontaneous migraine attacks.

UI  - 19570717
TI  - Effects of tonabersat on migraine with aura: a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled crossover study.
AB  - Minster Pharmaceuticals; Lundbeck Foundation.

UI  - 19565729
TI  - [Acupuncture at points of the liver and gallbladder meridians for treatment of migraine: a multi-center randomized and controlled study].
AB  - Acupuncture at points of The Liver and Gallbladder Meridians for treatment of migraine is safe, effective, and with stable long-term therapeutic effect.

UI  - 19549162
TI  - Rapid oral transmucosal absorption of sumatriptan, and pharmacodynamics in acute migraine.
AB  - The initial pharmacokinetics of LS approximate to those of a subcutaneous injection, albeit some fraction of these doses is also swallowed. These pharmacokinetics correspond with earlier effectiveness of LS in comparison with a 50-mg sumatriptan tablet, and at lower dose, in an enriched, relevant patient population. These initial studies support further development of this innovative formulation of sumatriptan and this new route of administration.

UI  - 19549156
TI  - Headache prophylaxis with BoNTA: patient characteristics.
AB  - Majority of patients treated with BoNTA in a specialty HA center presented with a CM diagnosis. HA disability was correlated with measures of frequency and treatment utilization.

UI  - 19546766
TI  - Combination treatment for menstrual migraine and dysmenorrhea using sumatriptan-naproxen: two randomized controlled trials.
AB  - I.

UI  - 19545249
TI  - A randomized, double blind, placebo-controlled study of MAP0004 in adult patients with migraine.
AB  - In this study MAP0004 0.5 mg and 1.0 mg were well tolerated and effective at delivering clinically significant, rapid, and sustained pain relief in adult migraine patients. No additional benefit was observed with the higher dose, thus the MAP0004 0.5 mg systemic equivalent dose has been selected as the dose for further clinical study.

UI  - 19489886
TI  - The abnormal recovery cycle of somatosensory evoked potential components in children with migraine can be reversed by topiramate.
AB  - The aim of this study was to compare the recovery cycle of somatosensory evoked potentials (SEPs) in children with migraine without aura before and after treatment with topiramate. Eleven migraine children were studied before and after a 3-month treatment with topiramate at the average dose of 1.3 mg/kg/day. We calculated the SEP latency and amplitude modifications after paired electrical stimuli at 5, 20 and 40 ms interstimulus intervals, comparing them with a single stimulus condition assumed as baseline. In nine patients, who had a significant reduction in headache frequency after treatment, the recovery cycles of the P24 (P = 0.03) and N30 (P < 0.005) potentials were longer after than before topiramate treatment. In two migraineurs who did not show any improvement, the recovery cycles of the cortical SEP components were even shorter after treatment. Our results suggest that topiramate efficacy in paediatric migraine prophylaxis is probably related to restored cortical excitability.

UI  - 19486178
TI  - Fixed-dose sumatriptan and naproxen in poor responders to triptans with a short half-life.
AB  - In migraineurs who reported poor response to a short-acting triptan, sumatriptan/naproxen sodium was generally well tolerated and significantly more effective than placebo in conferring initial, intermediate, and sustained efficacy for pain and migraine-associated symptoms of photophobia and phonophobia.

UI  - 19472447
TI  - Rizatriptan 10-mg ODT for early treatment of migraine and impact of migraine education on treatment response.
AB  - Rizatriptan 10-mg ODT, when taken early, while headache pain is mild, was superior to placebo at providing pain freedom at 2 hours and 24-hour sustained pain freedom.

UI  - 19456878
TI  - Migraine treatment with rizatriptan and almotriptan: a crossover study.
AB  - Times to achieve PR and PF were significantly shorter for patients using rizatriptan, as compared with those using almotriptan.

UI  - 19456855
TI  - Two different doses of amitriptyline ER in the prophylaxis of migraine: long-term results and predictive factors.
AB  - The prophylactic effect of amitriptyline seen in our study was rather weak and did not differ between the two treatment groups. The results of this 6-month, prospective, open-label clinical observation are therefore not encouraging.

UI  - 19453958
TI  - Rapid responders to frovatriptan in acute migraine treatment: results from a long-term, open-label study.
AB  - Frovatriptan provides a remarkably fast and high headache response in a subgroup of more than one-third of migraineurs, with a very low 24-hour headache recurrence and low rescue medication intake.

UI  - 19438916
TI  - Underdiagnosis and undertreatment of migraine in Italy: a survey of patients attending for the first time 10 headache centres.
AB  - The aim of this study was to asses the clinical features, pattern of healthcare and drug utilization of migraine patients attending 10 Italian headache centres (HC). Migraine is underdiagnosed and undertreated everywhere throughout the world, despite its considerable burden. Migraine sufferers often deal with their problem alone using self-prescribing drugs, whereas triptans are used by a small proportion of patients. All patients attending for the first time 10 Italian HCs over a 3-month period were screened for migraine. Migraine patients underwent a structured direct interview about previous migraine diagnosis, comorbidity, headache treatments and their side-effects and healthcare utilization for migraine. Patient satisfaction with their usual therapy for the migraine attack was evaluated with the Migraine-Assessment of Current Therapy (ACT) questionnaire. The quality of life of migraine patients was assessed by mean of Short Form (SF)-12 and Migraine-Specific Quality of life (MSQ) version 2.1 questionnaires. Of the 2675 patients who attended HCs for the first time during the study period, 71% received a diagnosis of migraine and the first 953 subjects completed the study out of 1025 patients enrolled. Only 26.8% of migraine patients had a previous diagnosis of migraine; 62.4% of them visited their general practitioner (GP) in the last year, 38.2% saw a specialist for headache, 23% attended an Emergency Department and 4.5% were admitted to hospital for migraine; 82.8% of patients used non-specific drugs for migraine attacks, whereas 17.2% used triptans and only 4.8% used a preventive migraine medication. Triptans were used by 46.4% of patients with a previous diagnosis of migraine. About 80% of migraine patients took over-the-counter medications. The Migraine-ACT revealed that 60% of patients needed a change in their treatment of migraine attacks, 85% of whom took non-specific drugs. Both the MSQ version 2.1 and the SF-12 questionnaires indicated a poor quality of life of most patients. Migraine represents the prevalent headache diagnosis in Italian HCs. Migraine is still underdiagnosed in Italy and migraine patients receive a suboptimal medical approach in our country, despite the healthcare utilization of migraine subjects being noteworthy. A cooperative network involving GPs, neurologists and headache specialists is strongly desirable in order to improve long-term migraine management in Italy.

UI  - 19438735
TI  - Revisiting the efficacy of sumatriptan therapy during the aura phase of migraine.
AB  - Considering the discrepancy between the present and previous clinical studies, it is worthwhile revisiting the efficacy of preemptive triptan therapy during the aura phase of migraine attacks, using larger-scale, 3-way, crossover, placebo-controlled studies.

UI  - 19438727
TI  - Zelrix: a novel transdermal formulation of sumatriptan.
AB  - The results from this study show that sumatriptan administration using a novel iontophoretic transdermal technology delivers plasma levels within the range for nasal spray, tablet, and injectable sumatriptan. Zelrix I and II were well tolerated and adverse events were mild and transient. Transdermal delivery of sumatriptan using the SmartRelief iontophoretic technology may prove beneficial for a large segment of the migraine population based upon fast, consistent delivery of drug and avoidance of common gastrointestinal disturbances associated with migraine.

UI  - 19414726
TI  - Mitochondrial DNA haplogroups influence the therapeutic response to riboflavin in migraineurs.
AB  - In this pharmacogenetic study, riboflavin appears to be more effective in patients with migraine with non-H mitochondrial DNA haplotypes. The underlying mechanisms are unknown, but could be related to the association of haplogroup H with increased activity in complex I, which is a major target for riboflavin. Our results may have ethnic implications, since haplogroup H is chiefly found in the European population.

UI  - 19384265
TI  - The effects of vitamin supplementation and MTHFR (C677T) genotype on homocysteine-lowering and migraine disability.
AB  - This study provides some early evidence that lowering homocysteine through vitamin supplementation reduces migraine disability in a subgroup of patients. Larger trials are now warranted to establish whether vitamin therapy is a safe, inexpensive and effective prophylactic option for treatment of migraine and whether efficacy is dependant on MTHFRC677T genotype.

UI  - 19371522
TI  - Randomized evaluation of octreotide vs prochlorperazine for ED treatment of migraine headache.
AB  - Prochlorperazine was statistically superior to octreotide in clinical success rate and decrease in pain in migraine patients but caused more restlessness and sedation.

UI  - 19338623
TI  - Treatment-refractory chronic migraine: the Ogre emerges from the shadows.
AB  - 

UI  - 19222588
TI  - Impact of recent prior opioid use on rizatriptan efficacy. A post hoc pooled analysis.
AB  - Recent prior opioid use was associated with lower triptan response. Because of the post hoc nature of the analysis and limitations in capturing amount of opioid used, as well as to adjust for disability levels, these findings require replication in prospective studies.

UI  - 19220503
TI  - Allodynia-associated symptoms, pain intensity and time to treatment: predicting treatment response in acute migraine intervention.
AB  - Almotriptan 12.5 mg was efficacious in providing 2-hour pain free, 2-hour pain relief, SPF, and reducing rescue medication use irrespective of the presence of AAS at the time of treatment. The most optimal efficacy outcomes occurred when patients treated migraine attacks early and before the onset of severe pain. The presence of AAS, which may indicate an early phase of allodynia, did not influence the efficacy of almotriptan therapy.

UI  - 19220307
TI  - Consistency of response to sumatriptan/naproxen sodium in a placebo-controlled, crossover study.
AB  - Two identical randomized, placebo-controlled, crossover studies were conducted to evaluate consistency of response to sumatriptan/naproxen sodium 85/500 mg (S/NS) over four attacks in adults with migraine. Patients were instructed to treat within 1 h of pain onset while pain was mild. Co-primary end-points were pain-free response at 2 h (2hPF) and 24-h sustained pain-free response (24hSPF) calculated as percentages of all attacks. In Study 1, 570 patients treated 1693 attacks with S/NS and 424 with placebo. In Study 2, 565 patients treated 1678 attacks with S/NS and 422 with placebo. Compared with placebo, S/NS conferred higher 2hPF rates (Study 1: S/NS 52%, placebo 25%; Study 2: S/NS 50%, placebo 20%; both P < 0.001) and higher 24hSPF rates (Study 1: S/NS 37%, placebo 17%; Study 2: S/NS 34%, placebo 12%; both P < 0.001). 2hPF was reported in at least two of the first three S/NS-treated attacks in 55.0% of patients in Study 1 and 52.1% of patients in Study 2. 24hSPF was reported in at least two of the first three S/NS-treated attacks in 35.7% of patients in Study 1 and 32.6% of patients in Study 2. The incidences of any adverse event and of specific adverse events were low and generally similar between S/NS and placebo.

UI  - 19175613
TI  - Large-scale screening and subsequent effects of migraine treatment on the work floor in the Netherlands.
AB  - In a large retail business group the ID Migraine Screening Test was sent to employees with three or more absences from work in the past year (n = 2893). Employees with positive results were invited for a neurological consultation and migraine patients were randomly assigned to: first attack 'treated as usual' and the second attack treated with 40 mg eletriptan, or reversed order. Of the 2893 employees, 799 responded (28%), 260 were positively screened for migraine (33%), 84 patients were diagnosed by a neurologist and 41 of the 75 included patients completed the protocol. Eletriptan induced pain-free response in 33.3% of the patients at 4 h compared with 0% after 'non-specific' treatment (P = 0.03). Eletriptan also significantly improved quality of life, but differences in absence from work and productivity loss could not be detected. In conclusion, in-company screening can be beneficial for undertreated employees, but implementation obstacles can reduce the effectiveness of screening.

UI  - 19134454
TI  - [Herbs for calming liver and suppressing liver-yang in treatment of migraine with hyperactive liver-yang syndrome and its effects on lymphocyte protein expression: a randomized controlled trial].
AB  - Herbs for calming liver and suppressing liver-yang is effective in treating migraine, and can improve TCM symptoms. The effects on migraine patients with hyperactivity of liver-yang syndrome may be related to regulating the blood lymphocyte protein expression.

UI  - 19125875
TI  - Clinical significance of brush allodynia in emergency patients with migraine.
AB  - Cutaneous brush allodynia is an uncommon finding in the ED, occurring in fewer than 1 in 5 migraineurs. It does not seem to have prognostic relevance for the ED-based management of the acute migraine attack.

UI  - 19114966
TI  - The effect of vitamin E on the treatment of menstrual migraine.
AB  - Vitamin E is effective in relieving symptoms due to menstrual migraine.

UI  - 19087155
TI  - Subcutaneous histamine versus botulinum toxin type A in migraine prophylaxis: a randomized, double-blind study.
AB  - This randomized study demonstrated that both histamine and BoNTA are similarly effective and well tolerated in reducing or eliminating headache in migraine prophylaxis. Low doses of histamine applied subcutaneously may represent a novel and effective therapeutic alternative in migraine patients and lay the clinical and pharmacological groundwork for the use of H3 agonist in migraine prophylaxis.

UI  - 19076647
TI  - Correlation of increase in phosphene threshold with reduction of migraine frequency: observation of levetiracetam-treated subjects.
AB  - Phosphene threshold increased during treatment with levetiracetam. At the 10% significance level, headache frequency and phosphene threshold were negatively correlated.

UI  - 19076646
TI  - Botulinum toxin type-A (BOTOX) in the treatment of occipital neuralgia: a pilot study.
AB  - Our results indicate that BTX-A improved the sharp/shooting type of pain most commonly known to be associated with occipital neuralgia. Additionally, the quality of life measures assessing burden and long-term impact of the headaches, further corroborated improvement seen in daily head pain.

UI  - 19073842
TI  - Comparison of the effectiveness of topiramate and sodium valproate in pediatric migraine.
AB  - Frequent migraine headaches can have a significant impact on disability, prompting the need for early recognition and treatment. The objective of this study is to compare the efficacy of topiramate and sodium valproate for the prevention of pediatric migraine, retrospectively. Mean monthly migraine frequency, intensity, and duration in the 28 patients treated with topiramate decreased from 15.3 +/- 10.1 to 4.4 +/- 5.5 episode, from 6.8 +/- 1 to 3.2 +/- 1, and from 10.2 +/- 9.4 to 2.4 +/- 3.1 hours, respectively. Headache disability improved with a reduction of Pediatric Migraine Disability Assessment score from 36 +/- 29.5 to 4.6 +/- 6.5 (P < .05). Similarly, mean monthly headache frequency, headache intensity, headache duration, and Pediatric Migraine Disability Assessment score in the 20 patients treated with sodium valproate decreased from 20.1 +/- 10.2 to 6.6 +/- 8.6, from 7.1 +/- 1 to 3.4 +/- 2.1, from 7 +/- 12 to 1.4 +/- 2.5 hours, and from 20.5 +/- 16.1 to 5.5 +/- 9.2, respectively (P < .05). In conclusion, valproate and topiramate seem to be able to manage successfully childhood migraine without substantial differences in efficacy.

UI  - 19036425
TI  - Efficacy and tolerability of MK-0974 (telcagepant), a new oral antagonist of calcitonin gene-related peptide receptor, compared with zolmitriptan for acute migraine: a randomised, placebo-controlled, parallel-treatment trial.
AB  - Merck Research Laboratories.

UI  - 19001531
TI  - Pharmaceutical care for migraine and headache patients: a community-based, randomized intervention.
AB  - A short-term pharmaceutical care intervention improved patients' mental health and self-efficacy, although it did not significantly change the number and severity of headaches. The increase in self-efficacy and mental health associated with pharmaceutical care may be instrumental in improving long-term pharmacotherapy of patients with migraine and headache. To fully assess the effects of pharmaceutical care, a longer study may be required.

UI  - 18985592
TI  - [Preventive treatment of chronic migraine with zonisamide: a study in patients who are refractory or intolerant to topiramate].
AB  - The results, obtained in patients refractory to other preventatives and particularly to topiramate, suggest that zonisamide can be useful in the prevention of chronic migraine. Of course, controlled clinical trials are necessary to confirm these preliminary results.

UI  - 18978487
TI  - Zonisamide for migraine prophylaxis in patients refractory to topiramate.
AB  - These results suggest that zonisamide is effective and well tolerated for migraine prevention in patients refractory to topiramate. With the exception of the inhibition of T-type calcium channels by zonisamide, its mechanisms of action seem to be very similar to topiramate's. We suggest the potential role of these channels in the pathophysiology of migraine.

UI  - 18953489
TI  - Development and validation of a pharmacy migraine questionnaire to assess suitability for treatment with a triptan.
AB  - A questionnaire (Migraine Questionnaire; MQ) was developed to help pharmacists identify consumers with migraine suitable for non-prescription treatment with a triptan. Adults, who knew or thought that they had migraine, participated in three, sequential, community-based studies to validate the MQ. Overall, 1,353 subjects completed independent assessments with a pharmacist and a clinician (reference standard). The accuracy of the pharmacist assessment of suitability for a triptan was compared with the clinician assessment. Clinicians using their standard practice determined that triptan therapy was suitable in 76.8% of cases compared with 48.8% for pharmacists using the MQ. The lack of concordance between pharmacists and clinicians in the false-positive cases (n = 113 of 660 subjects considered suitable for triptan by the pharmacists) usually related to headache diagnosis (57.5%), not safety aspects. The MQ is an effective tool for pharmacists to guide appropriate recommendation of a non-prescription triptan for migraine.

UI  - 18823363
TI  - Management of medication overuse headache: 1-year randomized multicentre open-label trial.
AB  - It is a general belief that patients with medication overuse headache (MOH) need withdrawal of acute headache medication before they respond to prophylactic medication. In this 1-year open-labelled, multicentre study intention-to-treat analyses were performed on 56 patients with MOH. These were randomly assigned to receive prophylactic treatment from the start without detoxification, undergo a standard out-patient detoxification programme without prophylactic treatment from the start, or no specific treatment (5-month follow-up). The primary outcome measure, change in headache days per month, did not differ significantly between groups. However, the prophylaxis group had the greatest decrease in headache days compared with baseline, and also a significantly more pronounced reduction in total headache index (headache days/month x headache intensity x headache hours) at months 3 (P = 0.003) and 12 (P = 0.017) compared with the withdrawal group. At month 12, 53% of patients in the prophylaxis group had > or = 50% reduction in monthly headache days compared with 25% in the withdrawal group (P = 0.081). Early introduction of preventive treatment without a previous detoxification programme reduced total headache suffering more effectively compared with abrupt withdrawal. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00159588).

UI  - 18823361
TI  - Headache classification by history has only limited predictive value for headache episodes treated in controlled trials with OTC analgesics.
AB  - We investigated the consistency between the headache diagnosis based on medical history and three treated headache episodes diagnosed based on a diary. In a randomized double-blind study including individuals with either migraine or tension-type headache (TTH) we showed significant superiority of the fixed combination of acetylsalicylic acid + paracetamol + caffeine over the combination without caffeine, the single preparations, and placebo in the treatment of headache. A neurologist performed a classification of the usual headache episodes and each of the three treated ones in a blinded fashion based on a structured questionnaire. This was done for the 1734 patients included in the efficacy analysis who usually treated their episodic TTH or migraine attacks with non-prescription analgesics. The overall percentage of patients with migraine and TTH remained relatively stable. The treated headache episodes were between 75 and 77% migraine, 18-20% were TTH and 5-7% could not be classified. We observed some shift in headache type within patients from prior history and in treated attacks. In 60% of patients all three treated episodes were of the type initially diagnosed by the neurologist by history (56% migraine and 4% episodic TTH). Of those with an initial diagnosis of migraine, 24% had at least one attack meeting criteria for TTH. Of patients with an initial diagnosis of TTH, 54% had at least one attack meeting the diagnostic criteria for migraine. Our results demonstrate that an initial headache diagnosis does not accurately predict the headache type treated in a randomized trial. Symptom features of treated headaches should be captured to ensure that the attack is of the type targeted by the clinical trial. The International Headache Society Guidelines for controlled clinical trials should be updated accordingly.

UI  - 18819179
TI  - Elimination of menstrual-related migraine beneficially impacts chronification and medication overuse.
AB  - Resolution of MRM correlated not only with conversion of CM to an episodic pattern, but also with a significant reduction in medication usage. It offers preliminary evidence that hormonal regimens may have a beneficial role in prevention of MRM.

UI  - 18810607
TI  - Melatonin to prevent migraine or tension-type headache in children.
AB  - We designed a 3-month open label trial of melatonin prophylaxis in children with primary headache. After a one month baseline period without receiving preventive drugs, all children received a 3-month course of melatonin, 3 mg, administered orally, at bedtime. A total of 22 children were enrolled (10 boys, mean age 12.2+/-2.6 years, age range 6-16 years), 13 had recurrent migraine without aura, 1 with aura and 8 had chronic tension-type headache. When the trial ended, 14 of the 21 subjects reported that the headache attacks had decreased by more than 50% in respect to baseline and 4 of them reported having no headache attacks. After receiving melatonin for one month one subject dropped out because of excessive daytime sleepiness. Our promising results warrant randomized placebo-controlled trials in children to assess the real effectiveness of melatonin in preventing primary headache.

UI  - 18788838
TI  - Oral zolmitriptan in the short-term prevention of menstrual migraine: a randomized, placebo-controlled study.
AB  - Zolmitriptan 2.5 mg oral tablet is effective and well tolerated as a short-term preventative therapy for menstrual migraine attacks.

UI  - 18752910
TI  - Effective prophylactic therapy for cyclic vomiting syndrome in children using valproate.
AB  - This trial sought to evaluate our experience using the antimigraine prophylactic drug, use of valproate for the prophylactic management of cyclic vomiting syndrome (CVS) in children. Thirteen children diagnosed with severe CVS were enrolled. Prophylactic therapy consisted of valproate administered at a dose of 10-40 mg/kg/day. Upon enrollment in the study, all patients underwent diagnostic tests to rule out organic causes of their symptoms. Vomiting was severe enough in all patients to cause dehydration requiring hospitalization for intravenous rehydration. Nine of 13 patients did not respond to numerous previous medical therapies like propranolol, amitriptyline, cyproheptadine, phenobarbital, phenytoin, and carbamazepine. Three of 13 patients required combination therapy with valproate and phenobarbital. Of the 13 patients, two showed complete resolution of their symptoms, nine had marked improvement in their symptoms, as evidenced by infrequent attacks of reduced severity, and two failed to respond to valproate therapy. Four patients experienced relapse with a decreased dosage of valproate. Side effects associated with long-term valproate administration were not observed. Valproate appears to be effective for the prophylactic management of severe CVS, with 85% of all patients achieving at least a reduction in the frequency of attacks.

UI  - 18727648
TI  - Medication overuse headache: predictors and rates of relapse in migraine patients with low medical needs. A 1-year prospective study.
AB  - The aim of this study was to evaluate the rates and predictors of relapse, after successful drug withdrawal, in migraine patients with medication overuse headache (MOH) and low medical needs. The study population, study design, inclusion criteria and short-term effectiveness of the medication withdrawal strategies have been described elsewhere (Rossi et al., Cephalalgia 2006; 26:1097). Relapsers were defined as those patients fulfilling, at follow-up, the new International Classification of Headache Disorders, 2nd edn, appendix criteria for MOH. Complete datasets were available for 83 patients. At 1 year's follow up, the relapse rate was 20.5%. Univariate analysis showed that patients who relapsed had a longer duration of migraine with more than eight headache days/month, a longer duration of drug overuse, had tried a greater number of preventive treatments in the past, had a lower reduction of headache frequency after withdrawal, and had previously consulted a greater number of specialists. Binary logistic regression analysis was performed, and three variables emerged as significant predictors of relapse: duration of migraine with more than eight headache days/month [odds ratio (OR) 1.57, P = 0.01], a higher frequency of migraine after drug withdrawal (OR 1.48, P = 0.04) and a greater number of previous preventive treatments (OR 1.54, P = 0.01). In patients with migraine plus MOH and low medical needs, relapse seems to depend on a greater severity of baseline migraine.

UI  - 18713156
TI  - A double-blind, randomized trial of low-dose topiramate vs propranolol in migraine prophylaxis.
AB  - This study demonstrated that both low-dose topiramate and propranolol could significantly reduce migraine headache frequency, intensity, and duration. However, compared with propranolol, low-dose topiramate showed better results.

UI  - 18705027
TI  - Divalproex extended-release in adolescent migraine prophylaxis: results of a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study.
AB  - In the current study, divalproex sodium extended-release did not differentiate from placebo in the prophylactic treatment of migraine headaches but was generally well-tolerated in adolescents aged 12 to 17 years.

UI  - 18644036
TI  - Almotriptan and its combination with aceclofenac for migraine attacks: a study of efficacy and the influence of auto-evaluated brush allodynia.
AB  - Early treatment and combining a triptan with a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) are thought to improve outcome during migraine attacks, possibly by counteracting the negative influence of cutaneous allodynia. The aim of this multicentre, double-blind pilot study was to evaluate the prevalence of brush allodynia and its relative influence on the efficacy of a triptan-NSAID combination compared with headache intensity at the time of treatment. In a randomized, cross-over design, 112 migraineurs treated two moderate or severe attacks with almotriptan 12.5 mg combined with either aceclofenac 100 mg or placebo. Patients used a 2-cm brush to assess cutaneous allodynia. Allodynia was reported in 34.4% of attacks. The almotriptan-aceclofenac combination was numerically superior to triptan-placebo on 2-24-h sustained pain-free (P = 0.07), 2-h pain-free (P = 0.07) and headache recurrence (P = 0.05) rates, but not on 1-h headache relief. Allodynia numerically reduced treatment success overall, but this effect was not significant for the primary outcome measures. Headache intensity had a significant negative influence on 1-h relief in both attacks (P = 0.0001 and 0.0008, chi(2)) and on 2-24-h sustained pain-free rates in triptan-placebo-treated attacks (P = 0.013). Multivariate logistic regression analysis confirmed that headache intensity at treatment intake, rather than allodynia, significantly influenced most outcome measures, predominantly so in attacks treated with almotriptan and aceclofenac. In the latter, severe compared with moderate headache intensity reduced the likelihood of achieving the primary efficacy end-points [odds ratios (OR) 0.12 and 0.33], whereas allodynia was not a significant explanatory variable (OR 0.76 and 0.65). The results apply to the protocol used here and need to be confirmed in larger studies using quantitative sensory testing.

UI  - 18545931
TI  - Oral contraceptive-induced menstrual migraine. Clinical aspects and response to frovatriptan.
AB  - Oral contraceptive-induced menstrual migraine (OCMM) is a poorly defined migraine subtype mainly triggered by the cyclic pill suspension. In this pilot, open-label trial we describe its clinical features and evaluate the efficacy of frovatriptan in the treatment of its acute attack. During the first 3 months of the study 20 women (mean age 32.2+/-7.0, range 22-46) with a 6-month history of pure OCMM recorded, in monthly diary cards, clinical information about their migraine. During the 4th menstrual cycle they treated an OCMM attack with frovatriptan 2.5 mg. The majority of attacks were moderate/severe and lasted 25-72 h or more, in the presence of usual treatment. Generally an OCMM attack appeared within the first 5 days after the pill suspension, but in 15% of cases it started later. After frovatriptan administration, headache intensity progressively decreased (2.4 at onset, 1.6 after 2 h, 1.1 after 4 h and 0.8 after 24 h; p=0.0001). In 55% of patients pain relief was reported after 2 h. Ten percent of subjects were pain-free subjects after 2 h, 35% after 4 h and 60% after 24 h (p=0.003 for trend); 36% relapsed within 24 h. Rescue medication was needed by 35% of patients; 50% of frovatriptan-treated required a second dose. Concomitant nausea and/or vomiting, photophobia and phonophobia decreased significantly after drug intake. OCMM is a severe form of migraine; actually its clinical features are not always exactly identified by the ICHD-II classification. However, treatment with frovatriptan 2.5 mg might be effective in its management.

UI  - 18545916
TI  - A functional MRI study of language disturbances in subjects with migraine headache during treatment with topiramate.
AB  - Topiramate (TPM) is a new antiepileptic drug approved for the prevention of migraine headache. However its use is limited by treatment-emergent adverse events; in particular, therapy can exert profound impact on language function. In this investigation, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to study the anatomofunctional correlates of language disturbances in TPM patients experiencing subjective cognitive impairment. Ten right-handed individuals receiving therapy (five with and five without language disfluency) and five matched healthy control subjects took part in this study. During fMRI subjects alternately rested and performed a word-generating task. The task comprised the silent generation of words beginning with a different input letter visually presented. The activation paradigm consisted of six activation blocks alternating with six baseline rest blocks. The main fMRI measure was the pattern activation of the prefrontal regions (Brodmann's areas 44, 45, and 46) in both left and right hemispheres. Patients receiving TPM (50-100 mg/day) significantly reduced mean monthly migraine frequency. However several differences in fMRI activation were evident in the subject group comparison. Notably, changes in brain activity were observed during the phonemic task in patients with language disturbances. It is likely that TPM therapy is associated with a "remapping" of the language cerebral network.

UI  - 18624801
TI  - Difference in triptan effect in patients with migraine and early allodynia.
AB  - The aim of this study was to determine whether in migraine patients with and without aura early treatment with various triptans leads to differences in pain reduction after 1 h and in modulating cutaneous allodynia. Thirty-six patients with early manifestation of a clinically recognizable allodynia of the face and non-responders to earlier treatment with sumatriptan 100 mg were included. Patients were randomized to six triptan treatment groups. Significant pain reduction was seen only in the group receiving zolmitriptan nasal spray 5 mg with a mean visual analogue scale (VAS) score of 3.8 (s.d. 1.2) at baseline and 2.4 (s.d. 1.3; P = 0.015) at 1 h after using the triptan and was thus a predictor of a VAS score 3 within 1 h. The study results indicate that migraine headache intensity can be reduced within 1 h by using zolmitriptan 5 mg nasal spray in spite of the presence of early cutaneous allodynia.

UI  - 18620801
TI  - A double-blind randomized controlled trial of topiramate and amitriptyline either alone or in combination for the prevention of migraine.
AB  - Amitriptyline and topiramate combination may be beneficial for patients with migraine and comorbid depression, particularly in terms of side effects and associated displeasure due to monotherapy.

UI  - 18620023
TI  - Effects of topiramate and levetiracetam vs placebo on habituation of contingent negative variation in migraine patients.
AB  - Migraine is characterized by reduced habituation of multimodal evoked potentials, which in turn reflects an abnormal pattern of cortical excitability. We assessed the effects of a 2-month treatment with topiramate or levetiracetam vs placebo on contingent negative variation (CNV) habituation and amplitude in a cohort of migraine without aura (MO) patients. Forty-five MO patients were selected from a university-based outpatient clinic and randomly assigned to 100mg topiramate or 1000mg levetiracetam or placebo in a double-blind design. Twenty-four control subjects were also recruited. The initial CNV (iCNV) amplitude and habituation were assessed by Cz/A1-A2 derivation recordings in the basal condition (T0) and after 2 months of treatment (T1). Both topiramate and levetiracetam produced a significant reduction in migraine frequency compared to placebo, they also reversed the abnormal iCNV habituation pattern which characterized the MO patients in the basal condition and which was not present in controls. For migraine patients, the reduced migraine frequency and habituation index following treatment were significantly correlated. A lack of habituation of evoked responses is an interictal endophenotypic marker in migraine, the reversion of which may improve disease outcome. These results suggest a role for neurophysiological methods in the management of migraine.

UI  - 18606965
TI  - Multimechanistic (sumatriptan-naproxen) early intervention for the acute treatment of migraine.
AB  - The fixed-dose single-tablet formulation of sumatriptan/naproxen was effective and well tolerated in an early intervention paradigm for the acute treatment of migraine, including traditional and nontraditional symptoms.

UI  - 18572432
TI  - Efficacy and tolerability of coadministration of rizatriptan and acetaminophen vs rizatriptan or acetaminophen alone for acute migraine treatment.
AB  - Rizatriptan coadministered with acetaminophen achieved 2 of the 3 primary hypotheses, proving superior to both acetaminophen and placebo for 2-h pain relief, but failing to achieve superiority to rizatriptan alone. RA was as well tolerated as each of the individual agents.

UI  - 18549372
TI  - Examining the utility of in-clinic "rescue" therapy for acute migraine.
AB  - Providing the alternative of in-clinic "rescue" for acute migraine refractory to self-administered therapy offers an attractive alternative for patients and appears to substantially lower use of an ED for headache treatment and the cost associated with that use.

UI  - 18545786
TI  - Lysine clonixinate versus dipyrone (metamizole) for the acute treatment of severe migraine attacks: a single-blind, randomized study.
AB  - LC is significantly superior to dipyrone in treating severe migraine attacks. LC promotes significantly more burning at the site of the injection.

UI  - 18540870
TI  - Prediction of attack frequency in migraine treatment.
AB  - Usually limited information about the frequency of migraine episodes is derived from acute migraine trials. However, the design of some studies is such that they also provide relevant information about the attack frequency without the bias associated with patient expectations of treatment effect between attacks during prophylaxis trials. Using clinical data from repeated migraine attacks treated with placebo, naratriptan 2.5 mg or sumatriptan 100 mg, we show that attack and interictal periods can be described by a random probability distribution. Based on a gamma distribution, the mean interval between attacks was estimated to be 24 (17-34) days for placebo, 23 (18-29) days for naratriptan 2.5 mg and 22 (17-28) for sumatriptan 100 mg. These findings suggest that the interictal interval is not affected by abortive treatment with triptans. Interpretation of these results may be limited by the study type, yet the method represents a new tool for the evaluation of disease dynamics and treatment effect in the prophylaxis of migraine.

UI  - 18534051
TI  - Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics of MAP0004 (orally-inhaled DHE) in adult asthmatics.
AB  - MAP0004 results in rapid and efficient systemic absorption in asthmatic subjects. Systemic DHE concentrations were similar to those previously reported in healthy subjects, and no clinically relevant safety issues were observed. While this small study was suitable for pharmacokinetic analysis and conclusions, MAP0004 use in migraineurs with concomitant stable asthma should be supported by larger studies of longer duration to confirm that it does not present additional safety risks compared to non-asthmatic migraineurs.

UI  - 18484981
TI  - Efficacy and tolerability of almotriptan in adolescents: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - Oral almotriptan was efficacious for relieving migraine headache pain in adolescents, with the 12.5-mg dose associated with the most favorable efficacy profile with respect to relieving headache pain and associated symptoms of migraine (photophobia and phonophobia). Almotriptan treatment was well tolerated in this adolescent population.

UI  - 18437288
TI  - Involvement of calcitonin gene-related peptide in migraine: regional cerebral blood flow and blood flow velocity in migraine patients.
AB  - Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP)-containing nerves are closely associated with cranial blood vessels. CGRP is the most potent vasodilator known in isolated cerebral blood vessels. CGRP can induce migraine attacks, and two selective CGRP receptor antagonists are effective in the treatment of migraine attacks. It is therefore important to investigate its mechanism of action in patients with migraine. We here investigate the effects of intravenous human alpha-CGRP (halphaCGRP) on intracranial hemodynamics. In a double-blind, cross-over study, the effect of intravenous infusion of halphaCGRP (2 mug/min) or placebo for 20 min was studied in 12 patients with migraine without aura outside attacks. Xenon-133 inhalation SPECT-determined regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) and transcranial Doppler (TCD)-determined blood velocity (V (mean)) in the middle cerebral artery (MCA), as well as the heart rate and blood pressure, were the outcome parameters. No change of rCBF was observed at the end of infusion [1.2% +/- 1.7 with halphaCGRP, vs. -1.6% +/- 3.1 with placebo (mean +/- SD)] (P = 0.43). V (mean) in MCA decreased to 13.5% +/- 3.6 with halphaCGRP versus 0.6% +/- 1.8 with placebo (P < 0.005). Since rCBF was unchanged, this indicates a dilation of the MCA. halphaCGRP induced a decrease in MAP (12%) (P < 0.005) and an increase in heart rate (58%) (P < 0.0001). CGRP dilates cerebral arteries, but the effect is so small that it is unlikely to be the only mechanism of CGRP-induced migraine.

UI  - 18422606
TI  - Rizatriptan efficacy in ICHD-II pure menstrual migraine and menstrually related migraine.
AB  - Rizatriptan 10 mg was superior to placebo for the treatment of PMM, as measured by 2-hour pain relief. Rizatriptan was also effective for the treatment of MRM and for relief of migraine-associated symptoms for both headache subtypes.

UI  - 18379469
TI  - [Efficacy of sumamigren at early and late stages of migraine attack].
AB  - Three migraine attacks have been studied in 30 patients aged 39.4+/-10.5 years. A significant decrease of headache and concomitant symptoms was found 1, 2 and 6 h after receiving of sumamigren (sumatriptan). The drug was effective in 2 out of 3 attacks in most of the patients (53.3%); in 3 attacks--in 26.7%; in 1 attack--in 6.7%. In 13.3% of the patients the drug did not exert a therapeutic effect. When administering at the early stage of the attack, the drug reduced the headache after 1 and 2 h more significantly comparing to patients receiving it at the later stage. In case of early prescription of sumamigren, the relapse of headache was observed in 7,8% and in later one--in 20.5% of patients. During the first 24 h of attack, patients switched to the drug at the early stage reported higher quality of life (mean score 45.1+/-14.6) than those with later prescription (71.4+/-18.3). It has been concluded that sumamigren is an effective medication for stopping the migraine attack, in particular at its the beginning.

UI  - 18312401
TI  - A double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, single-dose study of the cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitor, GW406381, as a treatment for acute migraine.
AB  - The objective of the present study was to explore the clinical efficacy and tolerability of GW406381, a cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitor with relatively high CNS penetration, in acute migraine. This was a double-blind, single-dose study of GW406381 compared with placebo and naproxen sodium compared with placebo (protocol number CXA20008). Three hundred and thirty-seven subjects were randomized 1:1:1 to GW406381 (70 mg), naproxen sodium (825 mg), or placebo for the treatment of one migraine headache of moderate or severe intensity in a potential 8-week period. The primary end-point was the proportion of subjects with headache relief [reduction in headache severity score from pre-dose 2 (moderate) or 3 (severe) to 0 (no pain) or 1 (mild)] at 2 h post-dose for GW406381 compared with placebo. Significantly higher proportions of subjects treated with GW406381 (50%, P = 0.032) or naproxen sodium (56%, P = 0.005) than with placebo (35%) reported headache relief at 2 h post-dose. Additional significant benefits were observed on many secondary outcomes, including proportions of subjects pain-free, for both GW406381 and naproxen sodium treatment compared with placebo. Both active treatments were well tolerated. Single-dose GW406381 (70 mg) and naproxen sodium (825 mg) were effective and well tolerated in the treatment of acute migraine.

UI  - 18302700
TI  - Effect of early intervention with almotriptan vs placebo on migraine-associated functional disability: results from the AEGIS Trial.
AB  - Early treatment with almotriptan within 1 hour of migraine pain onset significantly reduced levels of functional disability at 2 and 4 hours posttreatment compared with placebo. Consistency in improvement of HRQoL indicators was observed across 3 headaches treated.

UI  - 18294251
TI  - Early vs. non-early intervention in acute migraine-'Act when Mild (AwM)'. A double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of almotriptan.
AB  - The study was designed to compare the response to almotriptan in migraine patients who take medication early in the course of the attack with that when medication is taken after pain has become moderate or severe. A randomized, four-arm, multicentre, multinational, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of almotriptan (12.5 mg) comparing treatment administration when pain intensity was mild and within 1 h of headache onset vs. pain that had become moderate or severe was conducted. Of 491 migraineurs enrolled, 403 were evaluable [intention-to-treat population (ITT)]. Their mean age was 38 years, 84% were female and they had a mean of 3.7 attacks/month. Of these patients, 10% did not take medication according to their randomly allocated basal pain intensity (mild or moderate/severe) and were subsequently reassigned to that group for this analysis-'Act when Mild (AwM)' group. In the almotriptan arms, 53% of mild basal pain and 38% of moderate/severe basal pain patients were pain free at 2 h (P = 0.03; primary end-point). Corresponding proportions in the placebo groups were 25% and 17% (statistically significant vs. respective almotriptan arms). Secondary end-points (ITT) were also significantly in favour of early intervention with almotriptan, both between and across treatment groups, such as sustained pain free: 45.6% vs. 30.5% (P = 0.02). Adverse events were reported in < 5% of treated patients in all groups (NS), with no serious events. Treatment with almotriptan while migraine pain is still mild provides statistically significant and clinically relevant enhancements in efficacy compared with treatment when pain has reached higher severity levels.

UI  - 18272089
TI  - Intravenous dexamethasone vs placebo as adjunctive therapy to reduce the recurrence rate of acute migraine headaches: a multicenter, double-blinded, placebo-controlled randomized clinical trial.
AB  - A single dose of dexamethasone as adjunctive therapy for migraine headache does not decrease the recurrence of migraines at 3 or 30 days.

UI  - 18268247
TI  - Oxcarbazepine in migraine headache: a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled study.
AB  - Overall, oxcarbazepine was safe and well tolerated; however, oxcarbazepine did not show efficacy in the prophylactic treatment of migraine headaches.

UI  - 18250288
TI  - Sumatriptan normalizes the migraine attack-related increase in brain serotonin synthesis.
AB  - These findings point to a low cortical serotonergic tone in migraine patients interictally. Further, they demonstrate widespread increases in brain serotonin (5-HT) synthetic rate in migraine patients during attacks, and that triptans exert a negative feedback regulation of brain 5-HT synthesis concurrently with modulation of pain pathways.

UI  - 18242724
TI  - Emotional memory and migraine: effects of amitriptyline and sex related difference.
AB  - Many studies suggest that emotional arousal improves memory storage. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of emotional content on explicit memory in untreated cephalalgic patients and in migraineurs treated with the antidepressant amitriptyline. We utilized an adaptation of two versions of the same story, with different arousing properties (neutral or emotional), which have been already employed in experiments involving the enhancing effects of emotions on memory retention. Subjects of the present study were healthy subjects and cephalalgic patients, suffering from migraine headache, which included untreated migraineurs and migraineurs treated with the antidepressant amitriptyline. The findings of our experiments suggest that chronic migraine is related to memory impairment. Taking into account that migraine is associated with major depression, in the present research the effect of the antidepressant amitriptyline was also evaluated. Our results showed that amitriptyline has an impairment effect on memory. In fact, the untreated migraineurs, compared to treated, recalled the most emotional phase of the arousal story significantly better. Then, our data suggest that amitriptyline prevents the enhancing effects of emotional content on memory processes. Moreover, in agreement with our previous data, this study suggests the existence of gender differences in the processing of emotional stimuli and underscores the importance of sex on emotional memory mechanisms.

UI  - 18234046
TI  - Characteristics of migraine attacks and responses to almotriptan treatment: a comparison of menstrually related and nonmenstrually related migraines.
AB  - Prior to treatment, the presence of migraine-associated characteristics including aura, allodynia-associated symptoms, photophobia, phonophobia, and nausea were similar for both MRM and nonMRM attacks. The pretreatment levels of pain intensity and functional disability were likewise similar across the migraine subtypes. Almotriptan was equally effective in the treatment of both MRM and nonMRM attacks and was associated with an adverse event profile that was similar to placebo treatment.

UI  - 18197883
TI  - Migraine patients as trainers of their fellow patients in non-pharmacological preventive attack management: short-term effects of a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - In conformity with current views on patient empowerment, we designed and evaluated the effects of home-based behavioural training (BT) provided by lay trainers with migraine to small groups of fellow patients. The primary aims of BT were to reduce attack frequency and increase perceived control over and self-confidence in attack prevention. In a randomized controlled trial the BT group (n = 51) was compared with a waitlist-control group (WLC), receiving usual care (n = 57). BT produced a minor (-21%) short-term effect on attack frequency and clinically significant improvement in 35% of the participants. Covariance analysis showed a non-significant trend (P = 0.07) compared with WLC. However, patients' perceived control over migraine attacks and self-confidence in attack prevention increased significantly with large effect sizes. Patients with high baseline attack frequency might benefit more from BT than those with low attack frequency. In conclusion, lay trainers with migraine strengthened fellow patients' perceived control, but did not induce a significant immediate improvement in attack frequency.

UI  - 18194304
TI  - Responsiveness of migraine-ACT and MIDAS questionnaires for assessing migraine therapy.
AB  - These results suggest that the Migraine-ACT questionnaire can be used more reliably than the MIDAS questionnaire for detecting improvements in treatment of new and follow-up patients with migraine.

UI  - 18184294
TI  - Nebivolol and metoprolol for treating migraine: an advance on beta-blocker treatment?
AB  - Our results suggest that nebivolol is as effective as metoprolol in the prophylaxis of migraine attacks, with the advantages of being better tolerated and not requiring up-titration to achieve therapeutic levels. Further and larger trials should be conducted on nebivolol in the prevention of migraine attacks as it may provide an improvement in current migraine prophylaxis with beta-blockers.

UI  - 18180912
TI  - Interindividual variability of oral sumatriptan pharmacokinetics and of clinical response in migraine patients.
AB  - The slow rate and low extent of absorption of the drug during the first 2 h after dosing observed in patients of group B could explain their unsatisfactory response to oral sumatriptan.

UI  - 19469263
TI  - Analysis of the electroencephalogram and pain characteristic in patients before and after carbamazepine treatment.
AB  - Carbamazepin and Paracetamol do not cause changes in the EEG nor in the quantity in percentage terms of concentration of different waves in the control EEG in patients with vascular headaches. Statistically Carbamazepin and Paracetamol significantly change characteristics of pain and can be used for migraine treatment and prophylaxis.

UI  - 18156535
TI  - Impact of oral dexamethasone versus placebo after ED treatment of migraine with phenothiazines on the rate of recurrent headache: a randomised controlled trial.
AB  - A single oral dose of dexamethasone following phenothiazine treatment for migraine in the ED did not reduce the rate of recurrent headache. There is weak evidence for a possible benefit in the subgroup who present within <24 h of symptom onset. A multicentre trial to confirm this finding is warranted.

UI  - 18052960
TI  - PRO-513 for acute migraine treatment.
AB  - 

UI  - 18052951
TI  - Hypothalamic activation in spontaneous migraine attacks.
AB  - Hypothalamic activity, long suspected by clinical and experimental arguments as a possible trigger for migraine, is demonstrated for the first time during spontaneous attacks.

UI  - 18052949
TI  - The impact of topiramate on health-related quality of life indicators in chronic migraine.
AB  - Compared with placebo-treated patients, topiramate 100 mg/day appears to contribute to reductions in migraine-related limitations on daily activities and emotional distress beginning as early as week 4 and continuing up to week 16 after treatment. Physician's Global Impression of Change results are very similar with Subject's Global Impression of Change, indicating concordance between the physician's and the subject's assessment of improvement.

UI  - 18047502
TI  - Botulinum toxin type A and divalproex sodium for prophylactic treatment of episodic or chronic migraine.
AB  - Both BoNTA and DVPX significantly reduced disability associated with migraine; BoNTA had a favorable tolerability profile compared with DVPX.

UI  - 18047500
TI  - Elimination of migraine-associated nausea in patients treated with rizatriptan orally disintegrating tablet (ODT): a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study.
AB  - Although the efficacy of rizatriptan 10 mg ODT for the elimination of migraine-associated nausea was comparable to that seen in previous rizatriptan trials, the higher-than-usual placebo response prevented a finding of a statistically significant difference. There was a sizable difference in placebo response between patients who treated moderate vs severe migraine. Rizatriptan was effective for 2-hour pain relief.

UI  - 18042229
TI  - Botulinum Toxin Type A in the treatment of chronic migraine without medication overuse.
AB  - The use of Botulinum Toxin Type A may be an effective treatment for chronic migraine when the patient does not have concomitant medication overuse. It was well tolerated in this trial.

UI  - 18035351
TI  - 5-hydroxytryptamine1B receptor and triptan response in migraine, lack of association with common polymorphisms.
AB  - Triptans mediate vasoconstriction of meningeal vessels via stimulation of vascular 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)(1B) receptors. These drugs are recommended for acute treatment in patients with moderate-to-severe migraine attacks and in those patients with mild-to-moderate headache that are not controlled adequately by other agents. Yet, approximately 25% of all migraine users and 40% of all attacks do not respond to triptan treatment. Among the hypothesis to explain this is the possibility that genetic single nucleotide polymorphisms that alter the receptor, for example changing the transcriptional rate and therefore the amount of target protein might change the clinical response to these drugs. In the present contribution, we therefore decided to evaluate whether single nucleotide polymorphisms on the 5-HT(1B) gene might contribute to inter-individual variability in clinical responses to triptans. Two polymorphisms in the promoter region of the 5-HT(1B) receptor (T-261G and A-161T) and the synonymous variation G861C in the coding region were genotyped by restriction fragment length polymorphism in 105 migraine patients. In our sample population, 71% of patients responded to triptans. Allelic and diplotype frequencies were not significantly different between responders and non-responders. On the other hand, extrapolation of in vitro data on promoter activity would suggest that patients with higher copy number of receptors respond slightly better. Our data therefore do not support the involvement of 5-HT(1B) single nucleotide polymorphisms in mediating the inter-individual variability to triptans.

UI  - 18006188
TI  - A randomized controlled trial of prochlorperazine versus metoclopramide for treatment of acute migraine.
AB  - Either prochlorperazine 10 mg intravenously or metoclopramide 20 mg intravenously, combined with diphenhydramine 25 mg intravenously, is an efficacious treatment for ED patients with acute migraine. Three quarters of subjects in both arms would want the same medication for their next migraine.

UI  - 18005144
TI  - Efficacy of rizatriptan for menstrual migraine in an early intervention model: a prospective subgroup analysis of the rizatriptan TAME (Treat A Migraine Early) studies.
AB  - Rizatriptan 10 mg was effective for the treatment of menstrual migraine in an early intervention model, as measured by 2-hour pain freedom. Rates of 2-hour pain freedom were comparable for patients treating menstrual and non-menstrual migraine attacks with rizatriptan.

UI  - 18005142
TI  - Does early migraine treatment shorten time to headache peak and reduce its severity?
AB  - Early treatment and use of triptans may lead to shorter duration from migraine headache onset to its peak but did not alleviate headache severity at peak. This could result in decreased migraine burden by reducing total migraine headache duration.

UI  - 17991308
TI  - Aerosol delivery of ergotamine tartrate via a breath-synchronized plume-control inhaler in humans.
AB  - Based on these open-label studies, the BSPCI allows rapid delivery of potentially therapeutic plasma concentrations of ET at approximately 1/15th the dose of comparators.

UI  - 17955167
TI  - Frovatriptan vs. transdermal oestrogens or naproxen sodium for the prophylaxis of menstrual migraine.
AB  - Acute treatment of menstrual migraine (MM) attacks is often incomplete and unsatisfactory, and perimenstrual prophylaxis with triptans, oestrogen supplementation or naproxen sodium may be needed for decreasing frequency and severity of the attack. In this pilot, open-label, non-randomised, parallel group study we evaluated, in 38 women with a history of MM, the efficacy of frovatriptan (n=14) 2.5 mg per os or transdermal oestrogens (n=10) 25 microg or naproxen sodium (n=14) 500 mg per os once-daily for the short-term prevention of MM. All treatments were administered in the morning for 6 days, beginning 2 days before the expected onset of menstrual headache. All women were asked to fill in a diary card, in the absence of (baseline) and under treatment, in order to score headache severity. All women reported at least one episode of MM at baseline. During treatment all patients taking transdermal oestrogens or naproxen sodium and 13 out of the 14 patients (93%) taking frovatriptan had at least one migraine attack (p=0.424). Daily incidence of migraine was significantly (p=0.045) lower under frovatriptan than under transdermal oestrogens or NS. At baseline, the overall median score of headache severity was 4.6, 4.2 and 4.3 in the group subsequently treated with frovatriptan, transdermal oestrogens and naproxen sodium, respectively (p=0.819). During treatment the median score was significantly lower under frovatriptan (2.5) than under transdermal oestrogens (3.0) and naproxen sodium (3.9, p=0.049). This was evident also for each single day of observation (p=0.016). Among treatments differences were particularly evident for the subgroup of patients with true MM (n=22) and for frovatriptan vs. naproxen sodium. This study suggests that short-term prophylaxis of MM with frovatriptan may be more effective than that based on transdermal oestrogens or naproxen sodium.

UI  - 17955107
TI  - Two double-blind, multicenter, randomized, placebo-controlled, single-dose studies of sumatriptan/naproxen sodium in the acute treatment of migraine: function, productivity, and satisfaction outcomes.
AB  - Treatment with sumatriptan/naproxen sodium allowed significantly more subjects to return to normal or mildly impaired functioning more quickly, and sumatriptan/naproxen sodium patients were significantly more satisfied with their treatment compared with other treatment groups. Overall productivity loss was significantly reduced following use of sumatriptan/naproxen sodium.

UI  - 17948210
TI  - [Topiramate in chronic daily headache due to migraine].
AB  - Topiramate proved to be effective in the treatment of CDH due to probable chronic migraine and with probable medication abuse in de novo migraine patients.

UI  - 17942818
TI  - Randomized trial of IV dexamethasone for acute migraine in the emergency department.
AB  - A moderate dose of IV dexamethasone should not be administered routinely for the emergency department-based treatment of acute migraine, although it might be useful for patients with migraine lasting longer than 72 hours.

UI  - 17914062
TI  - Randomized controlled trial of an oral CGRP receptor antagonist, MK-0974, in acute treatment of migraine.
AB  - The novel, orally administered calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) receptor antagonist, MK-0974, was effective and generally well tolerated for the acute treatment of migraine.

UI  - 17883519
TI  - Patient preference for triptan formulations: a prospective study with zolmitriptan.
AB  - Patient experience of newer zolmitriptan formulations influenced a change in preference away from conventional tablets. Speed and efficacy were the key drivers of preference for zolmitriptan nasal spray, while convenience mostly drove preference for the ODT formulation. Open, longitudinal, naturalistic studies may, allowing for biases, sometimes be an appropriate way of conducting migraine studies in primary care.

UI  - 17880560
TI  - Subcutaneous histamine versus sodium valproate in migraine prophylaxis: a randomized, controlled, double-blind study.
AB  - Histamine has a selective affinity for H3-receptors and it may specifically inhibit the neurogenic edema response involved in migraine pathophysiology. The objective of this study was to evaluate the therapeutic potential of subcutaneous administration of histamine in migraine prophylaxis, compared with oral administration of sodium valproate, in an open clinical trial. Ninety-two patients with migraine were selected under criteria established by the International Headache Society and enrolled in a 12-week double-blind controlled clinical trial to evaluate the efficacy of subcutaneous administration of histamine (1-10 ng twice a week; n = 46) compared with oral administration of sodium valproate (500 mg daily dose; n = 46). The variables studied were headache intensity, frequency, duration, analgesic intake and migraine disability assessment (MIDAS). Two-tailed Student's t- test was used to compare means and the Mann-Whitney U and anova tests were used. The data collected during the 4th, 8th and 12th weeks of treatment revealed that histamine caused a significantly greater reduction (P < 0.001) in intensity and duration of migraine attacks as well as in analgesic intake. No difference was detected in the frequency of attacks or in MIDAS. The present study provides evidence of the superior efficacy of histamine applied subcutaneously in migraine prophylaxis when compared with sodium valproate taken orally. Subcutaneously applied histamine may represent a novel and effective therapeutic alternative in resistant migraine patients.

UI  - 17877653
TI  - Patient satisfaction with eletriptan in the acute treatment of migraine in primary care.
AB  - Patient-weighted satisfaction with eletriptan 40 mg was higher than with previous treatment for all items. The use of patient-weighted importance ratings of satisfaction is a promising approach for establishing effectiveness of treatment in primary care.

UI  - 17876397
TI  - Botulinum toxin type A in refractory chronic migraine: an open-label trial.
AB  - Botulinum toxin type A (BT-A) has been described as an important strategy to various types of pain such as cervical dystonia, myofascial pain syndrome and headache. Although BT-A efficacy has not been proven in tension type headache, its use in migraine continues controversial. In this open trial, we evaluated the efficacy of BT-A in refractory migraine. BT-A was injected in patients diagnosed with migraine who had previously used three classes of prophylactic drugs by at least one year with no response. The most important improvement was observed within 30 days, but pain intensity and frequency of headache had been decreased until the end of three months of follow up. Side effects of BT-A were mild and self limited. We conclude that BT-A seems to be a safe and effective treatment to refractory migraine patients.

UI  - 17825695
TI  - Single-dose intravenous tramadol for acute migraine pain in adults: a single-blind, prospective, randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial.
AB  - Intravenous tramadol appeared to be more effective than placebo in pain response rate at the end of the first hour. The slow infusion of tramadol 100 mg in 100-mL saline solution was well tolerated in this group of adult migraineurs.

UI  - 17728965
TI  - Randomised, open label, controlled trial of celecoxib in the treatment of acute migraine.
AB  - In comparison with naproxen sodium, celecoxib was equally effective in relieving pain in acute migraine and caused significantly less gastric pain.

UI  - 17723158
TI  - Use of almotriptan in triptan-experienced and triptan-nave patients.
AB  - Almotriptan should, therefore, not only be considered as first-line therapy for acute migraine but should also be considered for patients who are not satisfied with or not receiving optimal relief from their current acute therapy.

UI  - 17709295
TI  - Effects of levetiracetam vs topiramate and placebo on visually evoked phase synchronization changes of alpha rhythm in migraine.
AB  - These results confirmed in humans the inhibiting action of levetiracetam on neuronal hyper-synchronization.

UI  - 17682112
TI  - Analysis of pooled data from two pivotal controlled trials on the efficacy of topiramate in the prevention of migraine.
AB  - Pooled efficacy data from two large, similarly designed, placebo-controlled migraine-prevention trials demonstrated that a statistically significant proportion of patients using topiramate met or exceeded two main outcome guidelines recommended by the International Headache Society (>/=50% and >/=75% reduction in frequency of monthly attacks). Based on efficacy and tolerability, topiramate at a dosage of 100 mg per day (50 mg twice daily) should be the target dosage for most patients with migraine.

UI  - 17682008
TI  - Greater occipital nerve block using local anaesthetics alone or with triamcinolone for transformed migraine: a randomised comparative study.
AB  - Adding triamcinolone to local anaesthetics when performing GONB and TPIs was not associated with improved outcome in this sample of patients with TM.

UI  - 17681023
TI  - Symptoms of cutaneous sensitivity pre-treatment and post-treatment: results from the rizatriptan TAME studies.
AB  - The presence of cutaneous allodynia may predict response to triptans. Identical randomized double-blind studies were conducted comparing the efficacy of rizatriptan 10 mg or placebo administered within 1 h of headache onset, while pain was mild. The primary endpoint was freedom from pain at 2 h. Presence of symptoms suggesting cutaneous sensitivity (SCS) at baseline and at 2 h post-treatment was recorded. Before treatment, 29% of rizatriptan patients and 22% of placebo patients reported SCS. At 2 h, the percentage of patients with SCS was significantly decreased with rizatriptan. The presence of SCS pre-treatment was not predictive of response to rizatriptan. Most patients with SCS at 2 h were non-responders. Early treatment with rizatriptan significantly reduced the percentage of patients with SCS at 2 h. The presence of SCS at baseline did not predict pain-free response, but presence of SCS at 2 h correlated with lack of a 2-h pain-free response.

UI  - 17680819
TI  - Central mechanisms of controlled-release metoprolol in migraine: a double-blind, placebo-controlled study.
AB  - beta-Blockers are widely used in the prophylaxis of migraine and have been described as very effective drugs in many studies. Some investigators have demonstrated that the clinical improvement of migraine corresponds to the normalization of the contingent negative variation (CNV), a slow cortical potential measuring cortical information processing. However, most of these studies have contained a variety of methodological pitfalls, which we attempted to address in the current study. Twenty patients suffering from migraine without aura were randomly divided into two groups. The groups were treated either with controlled-release metoprolol or placebo for 3 months, using a double-blind design. Twice before and once after each month of the treatment the CNV was recorded. After 3 months, a significant reduction of migraine frequency, duration and intensity was demonstrated for the metoprolol compared with the placebo group. The CNV was characterized by a marked reduction of the amplitude of the total CNV and postimperative negative variation and normalization of the eartly CNV habituation following treatment. Therefore, metoprolol may exert its prophylactic effect in migraine through the influence on cortical information processing and excitability represented by the CNV.

UI  - 17671066
TI  - Efficacy of zolmitriptan nasal spray in adolescent migraine.
AB  - This novel, placebo-challenge study demonstrated that zolmitriptan nasal spray was well tolerated and provided fast and significantly effective relief of migraine symptoms in the acute treatment of adolescent migraine.

UI  - 17669102
TI  - Reversal of migraine symptoms by Helicobacter pylori eradication therapy in patients with hepatitis-B-related liver cirrhosis.
AB  - Helicobacter pylori infection might be associated with vascular diseases, such as primary Raynaud phenomenon and coronary heart diseases. The possible mechanism might be due to H. pylori antigens causing intermittent vasospasm of arterioles, which also played roles in the development of liver cirrhosis. Migraine, a functional vascular disease, was observed in many patients with cirrhosis in the clinic. This study aimed to assess the effects of H. pylori eradication on migraine symptoms in patients with hepatitis-B-virus-related cirrhosis. The results clearly showed that the intensity, duration, and frequency of attacks of migraine were significantly reduced in all the patients in whom H. pylori has been eradicated. Thus, the study pushed further insight into the mechanisms of migraine pathogenesis.

UI  - 17662012
TI  - Time course of adverse events most commonly associated with topiramate for migraine prevention.
AB  - The efficacy, safety and tolerability of topiramate has been demonstrated in three large multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials. To characterize the time course of adverse events (AEs) that led to treatment discontinuation in >/=2% of patients who received topiramate 100 mg/day during three pivotal, multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, and 26-week trials. The pooled population comprised all randomized patients who reported safety data during the double-blind phase (topiramate 100 mg/day, n = 386; placebo n = 372), which consisted of a 4-week titration period and a 22-week maintenance period. Incidence, time to onset, and cumulative mean rate of AEs were assessed. Overall, AEs led to treatment discontinuation in 24.9% of patients receiving topiramate 100 mg/day and 11.0% receiving placebo (P < 0.001). AEs leading to discontinuation during the double-blind phase in > or =2% of patients included paresthesia (8.0% discontinued), any cognitive symptoms (7.3% discontinued), fatigue (4.7% discontinued), insomnia (3.4% discontinued), nausea (2.3% discontinued), loss of appetite, anxiety, and dizziness (2.1% discontinued because each AE). Most AEs began during the titration period. Paresthesia, any cognitive symptoms, nausea, and loss of appetite occurred at a higher rate in the topiramate group than in the placebo group (P < 0.01). AEs leading to discontinuation of topiramate are probably to occur during dose titration. If a patient has not experienced one of these AEs within the first 6 weeks of initiating topiramate 100 mg/day, these AEs are unlikely to occur.

UI  - 17635595
TI  - Efficacy and tolerability of naratriptan for short-term prevention of menstrually related migraine: data from two randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled studies.
AB  - Naratriptan 1 mg twice daily for 6 days per month is effective and well tolerated when used for short-term prevention of MRM. More patients receiving naratriptan than placebo were satisfied with treatment. The observed increase in posttreatment attacks needs further study.

UI  - 17627707
TI  - Efficacy of dosing and re-dosing of two oral fixed combinations of indomethacin, prochlorperazine and caffeine compared with oral sumatriptan in the acute treatment of multiple migraine attacks: a double-blind, double-dummy, randomised, parallel group, multicentre study.
AB  - The study demonstrated that the efficacy of the initial dosing of Indoprocaf was not higher than that of sumatriptan, but that the strategy to use the lowest effective dose as soon as the headache occurred, followed by a second dose if the headache has not relieved or to treat a relapse, was very effective, especially with Indoprocaf.

UI  - 17603233
TI  - Botulinum toxin type A for migraine prophylaxis in the Japanese population: an open-label prospective trial.
AB  - BoNT-A injection was an effective and safe treatment for migraine prophylaxis among the Japanese population. A randomized placebo control trial is necessary to confirm its efficacy.

UI  - 17578540
TI  - Open-label, long-term tolerability of naratriptan for short-term prevention of menstrually related migraine.
AB  - Naratriptan 1 mg BID, with the optional use of an additional 2.5-mg dose for breakthrough attacks, was well tolerated when used for 6 continuous days per month for up to 1 year for short-term prevention of MRM.

UI  - 17578539
TI  - Dihydroergotamine for early and late treatment of migraine with cutaneous allodynia: an open-label pilot trial.
AB  - The results of this pilot trial provide proof of concept for the headache-relief benefit of dihydroergotamine in patients with migraine headache and allodynia. A large, placebo-controlled trial of dihydroergotamine in allodynic patients is warranted.

UI  - 17577644
TI  - A unique iontophoretic patch for optimal transdermal delivery of sumatriptan.
AB  - This study met the initial objective to define the dose-current relationship in humans as well as delimiting specific current and current density targets for a well tolerated patch design that can deliver therapeutic drug levels for longer periods than currently possible.

UI  - 17563841
TI  - Rizatriptan vs. ibuprofen in migraine: a randomised placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - The objective of this study was to compare the efficacy of rizatriptan and ibuprofen in migraine. The study was a randomised placebo-controlled trial in a tertiary care teaching hospital. Migraine patients with <8 attacks/months were included. One hundred and fifty-five migraine patients were randomised to rizatriptan 10 mg (53), ibuprofen 400 mg (52) and placebo (50). Efficacy was assessed by headache relief, and headache freedom at 2 h and 24 h. Two-hour headache relief, was noted in 73% in rizatriptan, 53.8% in ibuprofen and 8% in placebo groups. Headache freedom was achieved in 37.7% in rizatriptan, 30.8% in ibuprofen and 2% in placebo groups. Rizatriptan was superior to ibuprofen and placebo in relieving headache at 2 h but not at 24 h. Side effects were noted in 9 patients in rizatriptan, 8 in ibuprofen and 3 in placebo, all of which were nonsignificant. Rizatriptan and ibuprofen are superior to placebo. Rizatriptan is superior to ibuprofen in relieving headache, associated symptoms and functional disability.

UI  - 17537184
TI  - Times to pain relief and pain freedom with rizatriptan 10 mg and other oral triptans.
AB  - The times to PR and PF in a 'naturalistic' setting were significantly shorter for patients treating a migraine attack with rizatriptan 10 mg than with other oral triptans.

UI  - 17527044
TI  - Do the effects of long-term lomerizine administration differ with age?
AB  - 

UI  - 17501853
TI  - The phe-124-Cys and A-161T variants of the human 5-HT1B receptor gene are not major determinants of the clinical response to sumatriptan.
AB  - We have not obtained any evidence that variants F124C and A-161T of the 5-HT(1B) receptor are major determinants in the clinical response to sumatriptan.

UI  - 17501849
TI  - Sumatriptan/Naproxen sodium for migraine: efficacy, health related quality of life, and satisfaction outcomes.
AB  - Sumatriptan/naproxen sodium provides consistent relief of migraine attacks over 12 months, resulting in improved patient satisfaction and migraine specific quality of life.

UI  - 17501848
TI  - Efficacy of eletriptan in migraine-related functional impairment: functional and work productivity outcomes.
AB  - At baseline, the PQ-7 and FAIM-IMMF items that assessed ability to perform tasks requiring concentration, sustained work or attention, and ability to think quickly or spontaneously, were especially sensitive to the effects of mild headache pain, with 27% to 48% of patients (n = 92-112) reporting moderate-to-severe impairment. Only 11.3% of patients (n = 112) reported this level of impairment due to mild pain on the FIS. Functional response at 2 hours was significantly higher on eletriptan 40 mg versus placebo on the FAIM-A&P (63% vs 36%; n = 218; P < .0001); on the PQ-7 (56% vs 34%; n = 116; P= .0052); and on the FAIM-IMMF (50% vs 34%; n = 215; P= .017). These rates were all lower than the functional response rates on the FIS for eletriptan 40 mg (75%) and eletriptan 20 mg (70%) versus placebo (45%; P < .001). Conclusions.-In this exploratory analysis, use of multidimensional scales was found to provide a sensitive measure of headache-related functional impairment, especially for detecting clinically meaningful cognitive effects, and for detecting drug versus placebo differences.

UI  - 17475943
TI  - Prednisolone does not reduce withdrawal headache: a randomized, double-blind study.
AB  - Prednisolone has no effect on withdrawal headache in unselected patients with chronic daily headache and medication overuse.

UI  - 17448179
TI  - Rizatriptan for the acute treatment of ICHD-II proposed menstrual migraine: two prospective, randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind studies.
AB  - These are the first prospective studies to use criteria for menstrual migraine proposed in the 2004 revision of the International Classification of Headache Disorders (ICHD-II) to examine the efficacy of rizatriptan for treatment of a menstrual attack. Two identical protocols (MM1 and MM2) were randomized, parallel, placebo-controlled, double-blind studies. Adult women with ICHD-II menstrual migraine were assigned to either rizatriptan 10-mg tablet or placebo in a 2 : 1 ratio. Patients treated a single menstrual migraine attack of moderate or severe pain intensity. The primary end-point was 2-h pain relief and the secondary end-point was 24-h sustained pain relief. A total of 707 patients (MM1 357, MM2 350) treated a menstrual migraine attack. The percentage of patients reporting 2-h pain relief was significantly greater for rizatriptan than for placebo (MM1 70% vs. 53%, MM2 73% vs. 50%), as was the percentage of patients reporting 24-h sustained pain relief (MM1 46% vs. 33%; MM2 46% vs. 33%). Rizatriptan 10 mg was effective for the treatment of ICHD-II menstrual migraine, as measured by 2-h pain relief and 24-h sustained pain relief.

UI  - 17445101
TI  - Effect of pain intensity and time to administration on responsiveness to almotriptan: results from AXERT 12.5 mg Time Versus Intensity Migraine Study (AIMS).
AB  - Total headache duration was significantly shorter in the early treatment group compared to the standard treatment group. Considering time to treatment within a relatively early range of 1 hour or less, efficacy results when treating mild versus moderate pain were similar and both were associated with better outcomes than treatment of severe pain. When considering the prognostic variables of time to treatment and headache pain intensity (limited to moderate vs severe), both were independent predictors, with time to treatment a better predictor of headache duration and rescue medication use, and pain intensity a better predictor of 2-hour pain free and sustained pain free.

UI  - 17445100
TI  - Eletriptan for the acute treatment of migraine in adolescents: results of a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - The high placebo response rates reported here for 1- and 2-hour outcomes are in accordance with other studies of triptans in adolescent patients. The evaluation of treatment effect in adolescent migraine might benefit from use of more stringent outcome measures, such as headache recurrence, sustained headache response, and sustained pain-free response at 24 hours post-dose.

UI  - 17445096
TI  - Satisfaction with current migraine therapy: experience from 3 centers in US and Sweden.
AB  - An important subset of patients, including a large subgroup of patients using triptans, is dissatisfied with their UC. Clinical trials assessing patients' preference should be conducted to complement the information from clinical trials.

UI  - 17441971
TI  - Topiramate reduces headache days in chronic migraine: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study.
AB  - The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of topiramate for the prevention of chronic migraine in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. Chronic migraine is a common form of disabling headache presenting in headache subspecialty practice. Preventive treatments are essential for chronic migraine management, although there are few or no controlled empirical trial data on their use in this patient population. Topiramate is approved for the prophylaxis of migraine headache in adults. Patients (18-65 years) who experienced chronic migraine (defined as > or =15 monthly migraine days) for > or =3 months prior to trial entry and had > or =12 migraine days during the 4-week (28-day) baseline phase were randomized to topiramate or placebo for a 16-week, double-blind trial. Topiramate was titrated (25 mg weekly) to a target dose of 100 mg/day, allowing dosing flexibility from 50 to 200 mg/day, according to patient need. Existing migraine preventive treatments, except for antiepileptic drugs, were continued throughout the trial. The primary efficacy measure was the change in number of migraine days from the 28-day baseline phase to the last 28 days of the double-blind phase in the intent-to-treat population, which consisted of all patients who received at least one dose of study medication and had one outcome assessment during the double-blind phase. Health-related quality of life was evaluated with the Migraine Specific Quality of Life Questionnaire (MSQ, Version 2.1), the Headache Impact Test (HIT-6) and the Migraine Disability Assessment (MIDAS) questionnaires, and tolerability was assessed by adverse event (AE) reports and early trial discontinuations. Eighty-two patients were screened. Thirty-two patients in the intent-to-treat population (mean age 46 years; 75% female) received topiramate (mean modal dose +/- SD = 100 +/- 17 mg/day) and 27 patients received placebo. Mean (+/-SD) baseline number of migraine days per 4 weeks was 15.5 +/- 4.6 in the topiramate group and 16.4 +/- 4.4 in the placebo group. Most patients (78%) met the definition for acute medication overuse at baseline. The mean duration of treatment was 100 and 92 days for topiramate- and placebo-treated patients, respectively. Study completion rates for topiramate- and placebo-treated patients were 75% and 52%, respectively. Topiramate significantly reduced the mean number of monthly migraine days (+/-SD) by 3.5 +/- 6.3, compared with placebo (-0.2 +/- 4.7, P < 0.05). No significant intergroup differences were found for MSQ and HIT-6. MIDAS showed improvement with the topiramate treatment group (P = 0.042 vs. placebo). Treatment emergent adverse events were reported by 75% of topiramate-treated patients (37%, placebo). The most common AEs, paraesthesia, nausea, dizziness, dyspepsia, fatigue, anorexia and disturbance in attention, were reported by 53%, 9%, 6%, 6%, 6%, 6% and 6% of topiramate-treated patients, respectively, vs. 7%, 0%, 0%, 0%, 0%, 4% and 4% of placebo-treated patients. This randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial demonstrates that topiramate is effective and reasonably well tolerated when used for the preventive treatment of chronic migraine, even in the presence of medication overuse.

UI  - 17405970
TI  - Sumatriptan-naproxen for acute treatment of migraine: a randomized trial.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifiers: NCT00434083 (study 1); NCT00433732 (study 2).

UI  - 17379050
TI  - Efficacy of sumatriptan tablets in migraineurs self-described or physician-diagnosed as having sinus headache: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study.
AB  - Sumatriptan 50-mg tablets were effective and generally well tolerated in the treatment of these patients presenting with migraine headaches that were self-described or physician-diagnosed as sinus headaches.

UI  - 17355546
TI  - Crossover, double-blind clinical trial comparing almotriptan and ergotamine plus caffeine for acute migraine therapy.
AB  - In this randomized, double-blind, crossover clinical trial, adult patients treated two migraine attacks: one with almotriptan 12.5 mg and the other with ergotamine 2 mg plus caffeine 200 mg. Treatment with almotriptan was associated with a significantly greater proportion of patients achieving 2-h pain free (20.9% vs. 13.7%; P < 0.05) and 2-h pain relief (57.7% vs. 44.5%; P < 0.01) compared with ergotamine plus caffeine therapy; significant differences were not seen at 1 h. Rates for sustained pain free and sustained pain free plus no adverse events (AEs) also were significantly greater after almotriptan treatment than after the use of ergotamine plus caffeine (P < 0.05). Almotriptan was associated with a significantly lower rate of photophobia at 90 min (P < 0.05), phonophobia at 60, 90, and 120 min (P < 0.05 to <0.01), and nausea and vomiting at 90 and 120 min (P < 0.01) compared with ergotamine plus caffeine. A significantly greater proportion of patients were more satisfied with almotriptan than with ergotamine plus caffeine (P < 0.05). Sixteen patients reported adverse events during almotriptan treatment and 27 patients reported AEs during the ergotamine plus caffeine therapy. Most AEs were mild-to-moderate and did not result in treatment-related discontinuations. In conclusion, almotriptan was associated with significantly greater efficacy for treating migraine compared with ergotamine plus caffeine, was generally well tolerated and was associated with greater rate of treatment satisfaction.

UI  - 17355514
TI  - Topiramate for chronic migraine.
AB  - 

UI  - 17355497
TI  - Coenzyme Q10 deficiency and response to supplementation in pediatric and adolescent migraine.
AB  - Deficiency of CoQ10 may be common in pediatric and adolescent migraine. Determination of deficiency and consequent supplementation may result in clinical improvement. Further analysis involving more scientifically rigorous methodology will be required to confirm this observation.

UI  - 17355489
TI  - Topiramate in patients with episodic migraine: reducing the risk for chronic forms of headache.
AB  - Preventive treatment with topiramate in patients with episodic migraine may reduce the risk of developing chronic forms of headache.

UI  - 17339143
TI  - Intranasal sumatriptan study with high placebo response in Taiwanese patients with migraine.
AB  - Our study suggests that ethnicity might have a role in placebo response, and highlights the importance of a placebo group in acute migraine trials. However, the small sample size in this study should also be taken into consideration.

UI  - 17334957
TI  - Patient preference in migraine therapy. A randomized, open-label, crossover clinical trial of acute treatment of migraine with oral almotriptan and rizatriptan.
AB  - Physicians should use information from meta-analyses and preference studies like this one to aid in the selection of a triptan with a high likelihood of providing rapid, sustained relief from pain coupled with an absence of AEs. About 55% of patients recording a preference in this trial preferred almotriptan, perhaps because of its combination of good efficacy and lower incidence of triptan-associated AEs.

UI  - 17300364
TI  - Clarification of developing and established clinical allodynia and pain-free outcomes.
AB  - Headaches without allodynia were aborted when treated early or late, and headaches with allodynia were aborted only when allodynia was not present after treatment. These findings suggest that different mechanisms account for allodynia before and after treatment; a developing phase in which central sensitization depends on incoming pain signals from the peripheral nociceptors and an established phase in which the sensitization becomes independent of the pain signals that come from the dura.

UI  - 17300358
TI  - Early intervention with almotriptan: results of the AEGIS trial (AXERT Early Migraine Intervention Study).
AB  - Treatment with almotriptan within 1 hour of migraine onset resulted in significantly better clinical outcomes than placebo and tolerability similar to placebo. Acute medications, such as almotriptan, that are both effective and well tolerated may encourage patients to access acute treatment earlier.

UI  - 17300356
TI  - Efficacy and safety of topiramate for the treatment of chronic migraine: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - Topiramate treatment at daily doses of approximately 100 mg resulted in statistically significant improvements compared with placebo in mean monthly migraine/migrainous and migraine headache days. Topiramate is safe and generally well tolerated in this group of subjects with chronic migraine, a burdensome condition with important unmet treatment needs. Safety and tolerability of topiramate were consistent with experience in previous clinical trials involving the drug.

UI  - 17285787
TI  - Twelve-month tolerability and safety of sumatriptan-naproxen sodium for the treatment of acute migraine.
AB  - In this 12-month data set of more than 24,000 migraine attacks in 565 patients, sumatriptan-naproxen sodium formulated in a single tablet was well tolerated when used episodically for the treatment of acute migraine. The adverse events did not differ from those expected for the individual components alone, and no new or unexpected findings occurred.

UI  - 17277725
TI  - Safety and efficacy of intravenous sodium valproate in the treatment of acute migraine.
AB  - This multicenter study investigated the safety and efficacy of intravenous valproate in acute migraine attacks and the possible impact of prophylactic valproate pre-treatment. Thirty-six patients established on migraine prophylaxis were administered 500 mg sodium valproate intravenously against acute migraine attacks. Pain development was assessed by visual analogue scale up to a 24 hours follow up interview to detect e.g. possible relapse symptoms. A subgroup analysis examined whether prophylactic treatment with valproate affected its acute anti-migraine efficacy. A meaningful headache reduction within two hours was achieved in all 12 patients with and in 20 out of 24 patients without valproate prophylaxis. Headache-associated signs and symptoms were substantially reduced. No serious side-effects were reported. The results confirm the therapeutic value of intravenous valproate in acute migraine attacks described in literature and show a beneficial effect on all investigated efficacy parameters with a trend to even better response in patients receiving valproate prophylaxis.

UI  - 17257238
TI  - Sumatriptan and corneal reflexes in headache-free migraine patients: a randomized and placebo-controlled crossover study.
AB  - A temporary sensitization of central trigeminal neurones in migraine patients during acute attacks has been described in previous studies using the electrically evoked nociceptive blink reflex. The cornea is innervated by small myelinated A-delta and unmyelinated C-fibres only. Stimulation with air puffs activates peripheral nociceptors and allows the investigation of peripheral trigeminal nerve structures. Our objective was to investigate whether corneal reflex examinations with air puff stimulation detect abnormalities in migraineurs during their pain-free interval and if the corneal reflex may be modulated by the administration of an oral triptan. After validation of the nociceptive air puff technique by investigating the corneal reflexes before and after a local anaesthesia of the cornea, we recorded corneal reflexes in 25 migraineurs during their pain-free period and 25 healthy controls before and after the oral administration of 100 mg sumatriptan in a randomized, placebo-controlled, crossover study. Baseline response areas under the curve (AUCs) and latencies of the R2 components of the corneal reflexes did not show any significant differences between patients and controls. Patients did not show any significant differences regarding their headache and non-headache side. The use of an oral triptan had no significant influence on latencies or AUCs in both patients and controls. Our data suggest that there is no facilitation of the trigeminal system in the headache-free interval among patients with migraine. The stable corneal reflexes after the oral administration of 100 mg sumatriptan suggest that there was no inhibition of the trigeminal system, both in patients during their headache-free period and in healthy controls.

UI  - 17221340
TI  - Sumatriptan 6 mg subcutaneous as an effective migraine treatment in patients with cutaneous allodynia who historically fail to respond to oral triptans.
AB  - The objective of the study was to assess the efficacy of 6 mg subcutaneous (s.c.) sumatriptan to treat migraine and the relationship between response of migraine and cutaneous allodynia in a population of migraine patients who historically failed to respond to oral triptan medications. This was an open-label study consisting of patients with migraines who historically failed to respond to oral triptan medications. Forty-three patients were asked to treat three migraine attacks with 6 mg s.c. sumatriptan. The primary efficacy endpoint was the percentage of patients achieving relief of headache at 2 h. Ninety-one percent of the patients responded to a single dose of s.c. sumatriptan 6 mg. Fifty percent of all patients were pain-free by 2 h and over 30% had a 24-h sustained pain-free response. When administered within 90 min from the onset of migraine (i.e., during the developing phase of cutaneous allodynia), s.c. 6 mg sumatriptan proved to be effective despite the occurrence of allodynia in a group of patients, who historically had failed to respond to oral triptan medications. These findings suggest that the window of opportunity to treat allodynic patients with injectable triptans may be longer (up to 2 h) than with oral triptans (up to 1 h).

UI  - 17221013
TI  - [Comparison of intravenous dipyrone to intravenous metoclopramide in the treatment of acute crisis of migraine: randomized clinical trial].
AB  - There was no difference about the intensity of pain reduction neither about the development of collateral effects comparing dipyrone to metoclopramide.

UI  - 17212680
TI  - Diclofenac epolamine is effective in the treatment of acute migraine attacks. A randomized, crossover, double blind, placebo-controlled, clinical study.
AB  - Hydrosoluble diclofenac epolamine (DHEP) represents an interesting approach to acute migraine attacks, where gastrointestinal motility and drug absorption are often reduced. Its efficacy was investigated in a randomized, crossover, double-blind trial on 155 patients who treated four consecutive mild-to-moderate migraine attacks, either with DHEP (65-mg sachet) or placebo. If pain was not relieved within 1 h, a second dose was given. The total number of treated attacks was 481. A pain-free condition was achieved within 2 h in 45.8% and 25.1% of attacks treated, respectively, with DHEP or placebo (P < 0.0001), with a therapeutic gain of 20.7%. Time to attack resolution, light and noise sensitivity and impact on working ability were significantly reduced by DHEP compared with placebo. Moreover, significantly fewer patients required a second drug dose or a rescue medication when treated with DHEP than with placebo. No adverse reaction was recorded. In conclusion, DHEP was effective and safe for pain relief in patients with an acute mild-to-moderate migraine attack.

UI  - 17212609
TI  - Testing the combination beta-blocker plus topiramate in refractory migraine.
AB  - The combination of beta-blocker plus topiramate showed a benefit in around 60% of patients who had not previously responded to monotherapy. Adverse events led to discontinuation in one out of six patients. From these open results, it seems reasonable to recommend this combination, complementary in terms of mechanism of action, as a potential strategy in patients with refractory migraine.

UI  - 17177580
TI  - Effectiveness and satisfaction with zolmitriptan 5 mg nasal spray for treatment of migraine in real-life practice: results of a postmarketing surveillance study.
AB  - Zolmitriptan 5 mg nasal spray provides favourable efficacy and tolerability in the acute treatment of migraine attacks. Most patients assessed zolmitriptan nasal spray as 'better' than previous treatment, with nearly all wishing to continue using it.

UI  - 17164991
TI  - Treatment with sumatriptan 50 mg in the mild phase of migraine attacks in patients with infrequent attacks: a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study.
AB  - Most migraine patients with infrequent attacks are currently not treated with migrainespecific medication such as triptans. The response of these patients to triptans is unknown. The objective of this study was to investigate the efficacy and tolerability of sumatriptan 50 mg vs. placebo in migraine patents with infrequent migraine attacks when medication is taken during the mild phase of an attack. The study design was double-blind, placebocontrolled, parallel-group and randomised. Migraine patients were recruited by general practitioners and referred to one of 4 study centres. Additional patients were recruited by advertising. The patients were eligible for the study if they had between 6 and 12 migraine attacks with or without aura per year. The patients were instructed to take the medication during the mild phase of a single attack. The primary efficacy measure was the percentage of patients pain-free after 2 h. Fortysix percent of treated attacks were moderate or severe. In the intention-to-treat analysis, sumatriptan was superior (20/51 patients were pain-free) to placebo (8/47 patients pain-free) (p=0.03). Adverse events (AEs) occurred more frequently after sumatriptan (40%) than after placebo (13%) (p=0.003) and most AEs were mild or moderate. In this migraine population with infrequent attacks, sumatriptan was superior to placebo and was generally well tolerated.

UI  - 17163262
TI  - Tanacetum parthenium and Salix alba (Mig-RL) combination in migraine prophylaxis: a prospective, open-label study.
AB  - The remarkable efficacy of Mig-RL in not only reducing the frequency of migraine attacks but also their pain intensity and duration in this trial warrants further investigation of this therapy in a double-blind, randomised, placebo-controlled investigation involving a larger patient population.

UI  - 17156263
TI  - Almotriptan and zolmitriptan in the acute treatment of migraine.
AB  - Almotriptan and zolmitriptan were associated with similar efficacy and overall tolerability in the treatment of acute migraine. Almotriptan was associated with a significantly lower rate of triptan-associated AEs.

UI  - 17149566
TI  - Narcotic analgesics for acute migraine in the emergency room: are we meeting Headache Societies' guidelines?
AB  - We analysed 161 patients with acute migraine in our emergency room (ER) to identify the use of narcotic analgesics as first-line treatment. Twenty-four percent of patients were treated with opioid analgesics and 76% patients were treated with non-opioid analgesics. Pain was completely relieved in 100 (62%) patients, partially relieved in 50 (31%) patients and was not relieved in 11 (7%) patients at the time of discharge. Pain relief was not related to the use of opioids vs. non-opioids. The treatment of acute migraine in our ER is in line with the guidelines of the Headache Societies and needs further improvement.

UI  - 17140280
TI  - Efficacy and tolerability of zolmitriptan oral tablet in the acute treatment of menstrual migraine.
AB  - Oral zolmitriptan is effective and well tolerated for the acute treatment of menstrual migraine attacks. The results are similar to those seen with zolmitriptan in studies of the general migraine population.

UI  - 17109663
TI  - Improved migraine management in primary care: results of a patient treatment experience study using zolmitriptan orally disintegrating tablet.
AB  - The 'Zomig Appropriate for Primary care' programme was developed to address the needs of primary care physicians (PCPs) to improve migraine management. As part of the programme, an international, open-label, 6-month clinical study was performed. The study included new and tangible outcome variables relevant to PCPs and recruited patients presenting in primary care with an established migraine diagnosis. Patients treated up to three migraine attacks per month with zolmitriptan orally disintegrating tablet (ODT) 2.5 mg. All other migraine attacks occurring during the study period were treated with the patient's usual migraine medication (including other triptans). Questionnaires were used to record patient treatment experiences at the study end. The primary end-point was the proportion of patients wanting to continue using zolmitriptan ODT. Some 595 patients treated 7171 migraine attacks with zolmitriptan ODT. Of the 504 patients who completed the 6-month questionnaire, 380 (75.4%) wished to continue using zolmitriptan ODT. The results of the study indicate that patient-orientated end-points are more motivational and meaningful to physicians than traditional end-points used in controlled clinical trials, allowing them to make informed decisions regarding migraine management.

UI  - 17040340
TI  - Visual stimuli are common triggers of migraine and are associated with pattern glare.
AB  - It is suggested that clinicians should ask migraine patients whether visual stimuli trigger their migraine, about interictal visual symptoms, and use the pattern glare test to ensure that those who may benefit from optometric interventions are appropriately managed.

UI  - 17018329
TI  - A series of three sequential, randomized, controlled studies of repeated treatments with botulinum toxin type A for migraine prophylaxis.
AB  - Beneficial effects of BoNTA in the treatment of migraine have been reported, but positive results are not universal, possibly because the optimal patient population and regimen are not yet definitively established. This study explores the effects of multiple injections of low BoNTA doses into fixed sites for episodic migraine.

UI  - 17016684
TI  - Chronic migraine prevention with topiramate.
AB  - Chronic migraine (CM) is a disabling condition with not many treatment strategies available. Topiramate is effective in episodic migraine prevention, however little is known about its effect in CM. An open label study was performed. Sixty-four patients diagnosed with CM or probable CM according to the IHS diagnostic criteria were enrolled, 50 patients were available for analysis and an intention-to-treat methodology was applied. The primary endpoint considered was the number of patients with a decrease in headache frequency higher than 50%. The median dose was 100 mg, a reduction in frequency higher than 50% occurred in 33 patients (66%) and 14 (28%) presented a complete response, defined as a frequency reduction higher than 95%. The medication was well tolerated. The most common side effects found were weight loss, paraesthesias, nausea, cognitive dysfunction, fatigue, somnolence, insomnia and depression. Our findings suggest that topiramate is effective in CM prophylaxis.

UI  - 16982287
TI  - Comparative sensitivity of stopwatch methodology and conventional pain assessment measures for detecting early response to triptans in migraine: results of a randomized, open-label pilot study.
AB  - The results of this open-label pilot study suggest the convergent validity of 3 pain-assessment methods in migraine, but indicate that the use of a stopwatch may be a more sensitive method for detecting between-group differences.

UI  - 16961789
TI  - Functional gastrointestinal disorders in migrainous children: efficacy of flunarizine.
AB  - The aim of this study was to evaluate the prevalence of functional gastrointestinal disorders (FGIDs) in children with migraine headache and the effects of flunarizine on gastrointestinal manifestations. We studied 50 migrainous children (mean age 8.63 years). The clinical pattern and the diagnosis of FGIDs were obtained from structured questionnaires. All subjects underwent measurement of total gastric emptying time (TGEt) performed by real-time ultrasonography of the gastric antrum at baseline (T0). In the second part of the study, we evaluated 10 migrainous children (mean age 9.8 years) with associated FGIDs. In these 10 patients, repeated TGEt evaluation together with a detailed symptom history was obtained after 1 (T1) and 2 months (T2) of treatment with flunarizine. Control groups were composed of 10 migrainous children without FGIDs (mean age 9.2 years) and nine sex- and age-matched healthy children. Gastrointestinal disorders were present in 70% of the patients. Migrainous children with FGIDs had significantly (P < 0.01) more prolonged TGEt than subjects without FGIDs. Prior to therapy, all migrainous children with FGIDs had prolongation of TGEt compared with controls (P < 0.05). Patients on flunarizine had a significant decrease in TGEt at both 1 (P < 0.01) and 2 months (P = 0.002) of therapy. The mean frequency of abdominal pain per month was significantly (P < 0.001) reduced at T1 compared with T0. The mean frequency of vomiting per month was significantly decreased at T1 (P < 0.05) and even more so at T2 (P < 0.01). Finally, the mean frequency of headache per month was significantly reduced only at T2 (P < 0.05), whereas the mean duration of headache was significantly decreased at T1 (P < 0.01) with no difference between T1 and T2. Most children with migraine report FGIDs, associated with a delayed gastric emptying. Flunarizine decreases the frequency and duration of migrainous episodes as well as the gastrointestinal symptoms.

UI  - 16943370
TI  - A randomized trial of rizatriptan in migraine attacks in children.
AB  - Oral rizatriptan is effective and well-tolerated for migraine attacks in children over age 6 years.

UI  - 16941422
TI  - [Preventive treatment with topiramate enhances the quality of life of patients with migraine].
AB  - Preventive treatment with topiramate significantly reduces the impact of migraine and the disability that results from it. Treatment is satisfactory and improves the quality of life in a large percentage of patients.

UI  - 16919060
TI  - Advice alone vs. structured detoxification programmes for medication overuse headache: a prospective, randomized, open-label trial in transformed migraine patients with low medical needs.
AB  - The aim of this study was to compare the effectiveness of strong advice to withdraw the overused medication with the effectiveness of two structured pharmacological detoxification strategies in a cohort of patients diagnosed with probable migraine overuse headache (MOH) plus migraine and presenting low medical needs. One hundred and twenty patients participated in the study. Exclusion criteria included: previous detoxification treatments, coexistent medical or psychiatric illnesses and overuse of agents containing opioids, benzodiazepines and barbiturates. Group A received only intensive advice to withdraw the overused medication. Group B underwent a standard out-patient detoxification programme (advice+prednisone+preventive treatment). Group C underwent a standard in-patient withdrawal programme (as in group B + fluid replacement and antiemetics). Withdrawal therapy was considered successful if, after 2 months, the patient had reverted to an episodic pattern of headache and to an intake of symptomatic medication on fewer than 10 days/month. We were able to detoxify 75.4% of the whole cohort, 77.5% of patients in group A, 71.7% of patients in group B and 76.9% of those in group C (P>0.05). In patients with migraine plus MOH and low medical needs, effective drug withdrawal may be obtained through the imparting of advice alone.

UI  - 16886928
TI  - Dipyridamole may induce migraine in patients with migraine without aura.
AB  - Dipyridamole inhibits phosphodiesterase 5 (PDE5) and adenosine re-uptake. The most prominent side-effect is headache. We examined the migraine-generating effects of dipyridamole as well as the cerebral blood velocity response in a single-blind study, including 10 patients with migraine without aura and 10 healthy subjects. Dipyridamole 0.142 mg/kg per min was administered intravenously. Headache intensity was scored on a verbal rating scale along with pain characteristics and accompanying symptoms. Blood velocity in the middle cerebral artery (V(mca)), blood pressure and heart rate were recorded repeatedly. Headache was induced in all migraine patients and in eight of 10 healthy subjects (P = 0.47) with no significant difference in headache intensity (P = 0.53). However, five patients but only one healthy subject experienced the symptoms of migraine without aura, according to ICHD-2 criteria, within 12 h (P = 0.14). Four patients reported photophobia after dipyridamole compared with no healthy subjects (P = 0.087). V(mca) decreased (P < 0.001) during and after dipyridamole infusion with no difference between groups (P = 0.15) coinciding with initiation, but not cessation of immediate headache. Thus, dipyridamole induces symptoms of migraine and an initial decrease in V(mca) in migraine patients, but not significantly more than in healthy subjects. This relatively low frequency of migraine induction, compared with nitric oxide donors and sildenafil, is probably due to the less specific action of dipyridamole on the cGMP signalling pathway as well as a possible bidirectional effect of adenosine on migraine induction.

UI  - 16886927
TI  - The impact of different antimigraine compounds on platelet and erythrocyte aggregation.
AB  - Clinical and experimental data suggest that ergotamine compounds and triptans may contribute to vascular events such as myocardial infarction and stroke. The role of blood cell aggregation in this context is, however, not clarified. We aimed to evaluate the impact of different acute antimigraine compounds on platelet and erythrocyte aggregation in a human ex vivo experimental design. In 20 healthy subjects without migraine and in 20 healthy subjects with migraine without aura, platelet and erythrocyte aggregation were measured before and after intake of placebo, acetylsalicylic acid, ergotamine tartrate, zolmitriptan and sumatriptan. Platelet aggregation was measured by the so-called platelet reactivity index. Erythrocyte aggregation was measured by photometric assessment in an aggregometer. Ergotamine tartrate induced a significant increase of platelet aggregation, whereas acetylsalicylic acid induced a significant decrease in both subject groups. After placebo, after sumatriptan and after zolmitriptan, no significant changes of platelet aggregation were noted. Erythrocyte aggregation was affected by neither compound. We can conclude that platelet aggregation, but not erythrocyte aggregation, is increased after intake of ergotamine tartrate. This may in part contribute to vascular side-effects of this compound. Acetylsalicylic acid and the triptans appeared to be safe with respect to platelet and erythrocyte aggregation.

UI  - 16883506
TI  - [Topiramate in comorbid disorders: epilepsy and migraine].
AB  - Topiramate in monotherapy seems to be a suitable treatment in patients who undergo epileptic and migrainous attacks jointly.

UI  - 16870078
TI  - Prevalence of migraine and response to sumatriptan in patients self-reporting tension/stress headache.
AB  - Migraine headache may go unrecognized in patients with self-reported tension headache. Among patients having self-reported tension headache and diagnosed with migraine during the study, response to acute treatment with sumatriptan was inconclusive. Improvement with sumatriptan versus placebo was observed for some measures and not for others. The results should be interpreted in the context of study limitations including use of patient self-reports to assess headache diagnosis and possible lack of representativeness arising from the predominantly white sample.

UI  - 16866718
TI  - Eletriptan in migraine patients reporting unsatisfactory response to rizatriptan.
AB  - The results of this study suggest that eletriptan is an efficacious treatment option for patients who are dissatisfied with their response to rizatriptan.

UI  - 16860170
TI  - Time to pain freedom and onset of pain relief with rizatriptan 10 mg and prescription usual-care oral medications in the acute treatment of migraine headaches: a multicenter, prospective, open-label, two-attack, crossover study.
AB  - In this selected population, treatment of a migraine attack with rizatriptan 10 mg was associated with a faster time to pain freedom and onset of pain relief compared with treatment with usual-care oral migraine medications. Patients reported greater satisfaction with and preference for rizatriptan.

UI  - 16832773
TI  - [Symptomatic treatment of migraine with zolmitriptan: experience with 82 patients].
AB  - The new intranasal formulation of 5 mg zolmitriptan is a good option for the symptomatic treatment of migraine, which could be considered as an intermediate between oral triptans and the subcutaneous formulation of sumatriptan.

UI  - 16802852
TI  - Modelling the anti-migraine effects of BIBN 4096 BS: a new calcitonin gene-related peptide receptor antagonist.
AB  - A semi-mechanistic population pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic model has been developed for the anti-migraine effects of BIBN 4096 BS, characterised by the severity of headache and time to rescue medication. Simulations exploring the effect of the rate of absorption, bioavailability after an extravascular administration and the rate of activation/inactivation of the anti-migraine effect were performed. The rate of absorption seems to play a minor role; however, at least bioavailability fractions of 0.2-0.3 should be obtained. With regard to the kinetics of the anti-migraine effect, and to achieve a response rate of 60% at 2 hours, values of k(on) should be > 0.081 mL/ng/h. At later times after administration higher values of k(off) are associated with faster offset of the response. The simulations showed that molecules with high k(on) and low k(off) values are the most promising.

UI  - 16800989
TI  - Clinical study on effect of Xiaoyao Nose Drops in stopping episode of migraine.
AB  - XYND is effective in stopping the headache of patients with migraine, and worth applying in clinical practice.

UI  - 16776704
TI  - Rizatriptan vs. rizatriptan plus trimebutine for the acute treatment of migraine: a double-blind, randomized, cross-over, placebo-controlled study.
AB  - Gastroparesis frequently happens during migraine attacks, postponing the onset of action of orally administered drugs. Furthermore, triptans seem to work better in the earlier phases of the migraine attacks. Therefore, associating a gastrokinetic drug with a triptan may translate into better efficacy and higher consistency of response. Trimebutine is an opioid derivative with exclusive action on receptors of the Meissner and Auerbach plexus throughout the digestive tube. It has no absorption or central penetration. Herein we contrast the combination of rizatriptan plus trimebutine with rizatriptan alone in the acute treatment of migraine. Forty patients with migraine consecutively seen in our clinic were randomized to treat two consecutive moderate or severe attacks with one tablet of 10 mg rizatriptan plus one capsule of 200 mg trimebutine and two attacks with the same triptan and placebo, in counterbalanced order. We collected information on the severity of the attack, as well as presence of nausea and photophobia at the time of drug intake, and after 1, 2 and 4 h. Recurrence and adverse events were also contrasted. Sixty-four attacks were treated with each drug regimen. At 1 h postdose, 30 (46.8%) of 64 attacks treated with the combination resolved completely, vs. eight (12.5%) of the rizatriptan-treated attacks, a difference of 34% (P < 0.01). At 2 h postdose, 47 (73.4%) attacks treated with the combination vs. 20 (31.2%) of those treated with rizatriptan alone resolved completely, a difference of 42% (95% confidence interval 26, 58, P < 0.001). Regarding nausea and photophobia, the combination was also associated with significantly better response. Recurrence was similar among the two drug regimens, as well as adverse events. The combination rizatriptan and trimebutine is more effective than rizatriptan alone. The combination does not increase adverse events or recurrence of pain.

UI  - 16775229
TI  - Treatment of childhood migraine attacks with oral zolmitriptan and ibuprofen.
AB  - The authors conducted a double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover study to investigate the efficacy of oral zolmitriptan in the treatment of migraine in children and adolescents. Patients (n = 32) received placebo, zolmitriptan 2.5 mg, and ibuprofen 200 to 400 mg to treat three consecutive migraine attacks. Pain relief rates after 2 hours were 28% for placebo, 62% for zolmitriptan, and 69% for ibuprofen (p < 0.05). Both drugs are well tolerated with only mild side effects.

UI  - 16772757
TI  - Botulinum toxin type A in prophylactic treatment of migraine.
AB  - Current migraine preventive therapies are often unsatisfactory because of their limited efficacy, adverse effects, and drug interactions. An open-label, non-controlled study of botulinum toxin type A (BTX-A) suggested some benefits for patients with migraine. To assess the efficacy and safety of BTX-A, a randomized, double-blind, vehicle-controlled, parallel group study was conducted in 32 patients with a history of 2 to 8 migraine attacks per month, with or without aura. The patients were randomized to receive single administrations of 50-U BTX-A or vehicle injected into multiple sites of pericranial muscles at the same visit. Patients kept daily diaries in which they recorded outcome measures like migraine frequency, migraine severity, and the occurrence of migraine-associated symptoms. Patients graded symptoms on a 4-point scale ranging from grades 0 to 3 before and up to 3-months after treatment. The assessments were made at 0, 1, and 3 months. The primary efficacy parameters included number of headaches resolved (grade 3/2 to grade 0) and alleviation of other accompanying symptoms of migraine. The supplementary end point included improvement in quality of life (QOL). About 75% of patients reported complete relief to mild headache (grade 0-1) by BTX-A and none by placebo group. Patient' QOL parameters like energy/vitality and feelings and concerns about the treatment had shown considerable improvement. However, normal day-to-day work functioning and social interactions deteriorated. No adverse effects were reported in any of the patients in either of the groups during the study. It is evident from the study that pericranial injection of 50-U BTX-A showed good efficacy and tolerability as a prophylactic agent. However, this therapy will be expensive to the patients, but it is far superior in providing relief to the patients compared with existing therapies.

UI  - 16772716
TI  - Evaluation of efficacy, tolerability, and treatment satisfaction with almotriptan in 3 consecutive migraine attacks. The migraine--satisfaction with treatment: reality with Almogran study.
AB  - The objective of the open-label, multicenter Migraine--Satisfaction with Treatment: Reality with Almogran study was to assess efficacy, tolerability, and satisfaction with almotriptan 12.5 mg among migraineurs who were not achieving adequate results with their current acute therapy. Data from 434 patients (342 evaluable), were obtained for 929 attacks by 154 neurologists in France. Using a questionnaire developed by the National Agency for Accreditation and Evaluation in Health (ANAES), almotriptan was associated with an increased proportion of patients experiencing significant relief at 2 h (69.3 vs. 26.6%), tolerating the medication well (91.2 vs. 76.0%), able to resume activities (70.5 vs. 24.9%), and taking only 1 dose (59.4 vs. 28.1%) compared with previous therapies. At 2 h, headache pain had disappeared in 33.4% of attacks and was mild in 26.9%. Recurrence rate was 28.4% and rescue analgesics were used in 20.9% of attacks. The rate of adverse event-related discontinuations was 2.6%. The proportion of patients who were very satisfied/satisfied overall with almotriptan treatment was 69%. Almotriptan 12.5 mg was effective, well-tolerated and associated with a high rate of treatment satisfaction in patients whose previous acute migraine therapy was inadequate according to the ANAES recommendations.

UI  - 16750463
TI  - A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of the efficacy and tolerability of a 4-mg dose of subcutaneous sumatriptan for the treatment of acute migraine attacks in adults.
AB  - Sumatriptan 4 mg SC was effective for the acute treatment of migraine attacks and was generally well tolerated in these patients.

UI  - 16736729
TI  - Nalpha-methyl histamine safety and efficacy in migraine prophylaxis: phase III study.
AB  - The present study provides evidence of the efficacy of Nalpha-methylhistamine, given subcutaneously at doses of 1 to 3 ng twice a week, offering a new therapeutic alternative and laying the clinical and pharmacological groundwork for the use of histaminergic H3-agonists in migraine prophylaxis, which may specifically inhibit the neurogenic edema response involved in migraine pathophysiology.

UI  - 16732839
TI  - A clinical trial of trimethobenzamide/diphenhydramine versus sumatriptan for acute migraines.
AB  - SQ sumatriptan is probably superior to TMB/DPH for treating the pain of acute migraine at 2 hours. However, TMB/DPH was well-tolerated, efficacious, and relieved pain comparably to sumatriptan at 24 hours. TMB/DPH might have a role in select populations in which sumatriptan is contraindicated or likely to be ineffective.

UI  - 16732837
TI  - Efficacy of Rizatriptan 10 mg administered early in a migraine attack.
AB  - Rizatriptan 10 mg was superior to placebo when treating migraine early, while pain is mild, as measured by pain freedom at 2 hours and 24-hour sustained pain freedom.

UI  - 16707727
TI  - Probable medication-overuse headache: the effect of a 2-month drug-free period.
AB  - These data demonstrate the benefit of withdrawal in already established medication overuse and support the existence of medication-overuse headache as a clinical entity.

UI  - 16688638
TI  - Treatment of aura: solving the puzzle.
AB  - Migraine with aura (MwA) sufferers, at times, need specific treatments. This is the case when the auras are frequent, prolonged and cause anxiety and distress. Abnormal release of glutamate, which may trigger auras, and abnormal platelet behaviour, which constitutes a possible predisposing factor to MwA, are possible targets for MwA-specific prophylactic therapy. Here we present results obtained using lamotrigine (two open trials), an agent known to inhibit glutamate release, and picotamide, an antiplatelet drug, in the prophylactic treatment of MwA sufferers. Lamotrigine significantly reduced the frequency of MwA attacks, and picotamide together with lamotrigine reduced the duration and/or the occurrence of auras. In comparison to lamotrigine, the therapy with picotamide may have some advantages such as the use of the therapeutic dose from the first day of treatment (lamotrigine needs one month or more to reach such a dose) and the possibility to prevent cerebral ischaemic events and migraine stroke, a rare but severe complication of MwA attacks.

UI  - 16688629
TI  - Efficacy and tolerability of almotriptan versus zolmitriptan for the acute treatment of menstrual migraine.
AB  - Menstrual migraine (MM) attacks are a challenge for the headache specialist, because they are particularly difficult to treat. Almotriptan is a second-generation triptan successfully used for the acute treatment of migraine. No data on the efficacy and safety of almotriptan in MM treatment have been published previously. The objective was to evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of almotriptan in the symptomatic treatment of MM attacks and to compare these parameters to those obtained with zolmitriptan, another second-generation triptan. Data from a multicentre, multinational, randomised, double-blind, parallel clinical trial, conducted at 118 centres in 9 European countries, to evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of almotriptan 12.5 mg vs. zolmitriptan 2.5 mg in the acute treatment of migraine were analysed retrospectively. Of the 1061 patients included, 902 were women and 255 of these treated a MM attack: 136 with almotriptan and 119 with zolmitriptan. No significant difference between the two treatments was found. Two hours after dosing, 67.9% of almotriptan-treated and 68.6% of zolmitriptan-treated patients had obtained pain relief; while 44.9% and 41.2%, respectively, were pain free. Recurrence rates 2-24 h after dosing were 32.8% for almotriptan and 34.7% for zolmitriptan. Adverse events in the 24 h after dosing were reported by 19.8% of those taking almotriptan and 23.1% of those taking zolmitriptan. In conclusion, almotriptan is effective and safe in the treatment of MM attacks.

UI  - 16688412
TI  - Almotriptan in the acute treatment of migraine in patients 11-17 years old: an open-label pilot study of efficacy and safety.
AB  - The objective was to investigate the safety and efficacy of almotriptan in patients aged 11-17 years old with acute migraine. Fifteen patients aged 11-17 with a history of migraine with or without aura were treated with almotriptan. Reduction in headache severity, disability and adverse effects were studied. Almotriptan in doses ranging from 6.25 to 12.5 mg was well tolerated. There were virtually no adverse effects except for one case of transient mild stiffness. Of the 15 patients, only 2 demonstrated no efficacy without adverse effects. In the other 13 patients, not only was almotriptan effective, but again, no significant adverse effects were reported. Almotriptan is probably safe and effective in patients aged 11-17. This small open-label pilot study should support the feasibility of a large randomised controlled study to demonstrate tolerability and efficacy of almotriptan in children and adolescents with episodic migraine.

UI  - 16686911
TI  - The natural course of migraine attacks. A prospective analysis of untreated attacks compared with attacks treated with a triptan.
AB  - This study was designed to document prospectively and explore scientifically the natural course of untreated migraine attacks in detail. A new, integrated, time-intensity method for self-assessment of the intensity of symptoms was tested on 18 adult International Headache Society migraineurs who volunteered to refrain from treatment during one attack. The area under the curves (AUC) during 72 h of untreated attacks was compared with attacks treated with a triptan. Migraine attacks are heterogeneous both inter- and intra-individually. In untreated attacks, the pain can stabilize and fluctuate around a plateau with a wavelength of hours. In general, the symptoms of each separate migraine attack follow a similar temporal course, with only moderate deviations. In some cases photo- and/or phonophobia (hyperexcitability) were not experienced at all, despite severe pain and nausea. Moreover, there was sometimes no nausea despite severe pain and hyperexcitability. Vomiting does not always correlate to the intensity of nausea and is not always followed by decreased headache intensity. Treatment with a triptan usually only temporarily distorts the basic pattern of attacks. Hyperexcitability can respond before pain to treatment. These genuine findings of the classic symptoms of migraine attacks support the notion of a mutual underlying pathophysiological mechanism.

UI  - 16674762
TI  - Efficacy and tolerability of diclofenac potassium sachets in migraine: a randomized, double-blind, cross-over study in comparison with diclofenac potassium tablets and placebo.
AB  - A randomized, controlled, cross-over trial compared single doses of 50 mg diclofenac potassium sachets and tablets with placebo in 328 patients with migraine pain, treating 888 attacks. For the primary endpoint 24.7% of the patients were pain free at 2 h postdose with sachets, 18.5% for tablets and 11.7% for placebo. Treatment differences were significant for sachets vs. placebo (P<0.0001), tablets vs. placebo (P=0.0040) and for sachets vs. tablets (P=0.0035). The numbers needed to treat compared with placebo to achieve pain free at 2 h were 7.75 [95% confidence interval (CI) 5.46, 13.35] for sachets and 15.83 (95% CI 8.63, 96.20) for tablets. Sachets were also statistically superior to tablets for sustained headache response, sustained pain free and reduction in headache intensity within the first 2 h postdose measured on a visual analogue scale (P<0.05). Onset of analgesic effect was 15 min for sachets and 60 min for tablets. Fewer patients needed rescue medication, and there were marked improvements in accompanying symptoms and working ability with both sachets and tablets vs. placebo. No safety issues were identified. This study demonstrates that sachets offer patients suffering from migraine pain a more effective treatment with a faster onset of analgesia when compared with tablets.

UI  - 16643582
TI  - Use of a pine bark extract and antioxidant vitamin combination product as therapy for migraine in patients refractory to pharmacologic medication.
AB  - These data suggest that the antioxidant therapy used in this study may be beneficial in the treatment of migraine possibly reducing headache frequency and severity. Further clinical investigation into the efficacy of antioxidant as therapy for chronic migraine is warranted.

UI  - 16643581
TI  - Haloperidol in the acute treatment of migraine: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study.
AB  - This study shows that i.v. haloperidol is very effective in relieving migraine-associated pain. Because the majority of the patients had taken other medication without response, haloperidol appears to be an effective rescue medication even when other types of treatment have failed. Relapses are rare, but side effects are common, limiting the use of haloperidol in some patients.

UI  - 16625988
TI  - Effect of food intake on the bioavailability of almotriptan, an antimigraine compound, in healthy volunteers: an open, randomized, crossover, single-dose clinical trial.
AB  - This open, randomized, crossover, single-dose clinical trial evaluated the possible pharmacokinetic interaction between a single oral dose of almotriptan 25 mg, a 5-HT1B/1D receptor agonist for the acute treatment of migraine, and food intake in healthy volunteers. The influence of food intake in the rate and extent of almotriptan absorption was evaluated by bioequivalence criteria. Tolerability and safety of treatment were also assessed. 16 healthy volunteers (8 men and 8 women, aged 19-27 years) received a crossed single oral dose of almotriptan 25 mg under fasting and fed conditions, separated by a 7-day washout period. The treatment given under fasting condition was considered as reference. Plasma levels of almotriptan were analyzed using high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and UV detection at 227 nm. The 90% confidence intervals (CI) for the logarithmically transformed Cmax and AUC0-infinity, values of almotriptan under fasting and fed conditions (97.8 - 124% and 102.9 - 108.2%, respectively) fell into the predetermined accepted range of 80 - 125%. No statistically significant differences in Cmax, tmax, AUC0-infinity, MRT and t1/2 were observed under fasting and fed conditions between men and women. Tolerability of treatments was good throughout the whole study period. In conclusion, administration of almotriptan 25 mg is bioequivalent under fasting and fed conditions in healthy men and women. Therefore, it is unlikely that concomitant food intake would produce clinially relevant differences in therapeutic effect with almotriptan at the dose studied here.

UI  - 16618262
TI  - Acetaminophen, aspirin, and caffeine in combination versus ibuprofen for acute migraine: results from a multicenter, double-blind, randomized, parallel-group, single-dose, placebo-controlled study.
AB  - AAC and IB are safe, cost-effective treatments for migraine; AAC provides significantly superior efficacy and speed of onset compared with IB.

UI  - 16614691
TI  - Lysine clonixinate vs naproxen sodium for the acute treatment of migraine: a double-blind, randomized, crossover study.
AB  - Although this study did not include a placebo arm, which impairs any definitive efficacy claims, we found LC and NS to be similarly effective and well tolerated in patients presenting moderate or severe attacks of migraine.

UI  - 16583726
TI  - Pain free efficacy of sumatriptan in the early treatment of migraine.
AB  - Both sumatriptan 50 mg and 100 mg were significantly superior to placebo for the pain-free end point at two hours. The pain-free response rates in this trial where sumatriptan was taken while the headache was still mild were generally higher than in older clinical trials where headache was treated after reaching a moderate or severe intensity.

UI  - 16556244
TI  - Does earlier headache response equate to earlier return to functioning in patients suffering from migraine?
AB  - This study explored the association between headache response and return to functioning, and identified migraine-associated symptoms related to functional status and acceptability of migraine treatment as reported by patients. Data from migraineurs enrolled in the active arms of a randomized, double-blind, parallel group, placebo-controlled, clinical trial were analysed. The relationships between headache response and functional response, and clinical factors and treatment acceptability were assessed using chi(2) tests of proportions and logistic regressions. A greater proportion of patients with headache response at 0.5 h were functioning at 0.5, 1 and 2 h compared with patients who did not attain a headache response at 0.5 h (P < 0.0001). These patients also were more likely to find their treatment acceptable (P < 0.05). The results suggest a direct temporal relationship among the key determinants of migraine resolution. Rapid headache response is associated with faster return to functioning; rapid headache and functional responses are significant attributes of treatment acceptability.

UI  - 16492236
TI  - Rofecoxib in the acute treatment of migraine: a randomized controlled clinical trial.
AB  - Rofecoxib 25 and 50 mg and ibuprofen 400 mg were effective and generally well tolerated in the acute treatment of migraine.

UI  - 16492230
TI  - Sumatriptan nasal spray in adolescent migraineurs: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, acute study.
AB  - This study suggests that sumatriptan may be beneficial to some adolescents and is generally well tolerated in the acute treatment of migraine in this population.

UI  - 16472330
TI  - Preference for rizatriptan 10-mg wafer vs. eletriptan 40-mg tablet for acute treatment of migraine.
AB  - Preference is a composite, patient-oriented endpoint incorporating efficacy, tolerability, formulation, and convenience of medications. The objective of this study was to compare patient preference for rizatriptan 10-mg wafer vs. eletriptan 40-mg tablet for acute treatment of migraine. In this multicentre, open-label, two-period, crossover study, out-patients were randomly assigned to treat the first of two moderate to severe migraines with rizatriptan or eletriptan and the second with the alternate therapy. Patients completed diary assessments at baseline and up to 24 h after taking study medication. At the last visit, patients completed a psychometrically validated preference questionnaire. A total of 372 patients (mean age 38 years, 85% female) treated two migraine attacks, and 342 patients (92%) expressed a preference for treatment. Significantly more (P < or = 0.001) patients preferred rizatriptan 10-mg wafer [61.1%; 95% confidence interval (CI) 55.7, 66.3] to eletriptan 40-mg tablet (38.9%; 95% CI 33.7, 44.3). The most common reason given for preference of either treatment was speed of headache relief. At 2 h, 80% and 69% of patients reported that rizatriptan and eletriptan, respectively, was convenient or very convenient to take (mean convenience score 1.99 vs. 2.31, respectively; P < or = 0.001). Both triptans were well tolerated. In this head-to-head study designed to evaluate global patient preference, significantly more patients preferred the rizatriptan 10-mg wafer to the eletriptan 40-mg tablet for acute treatment of migraine. The single most important reason for preference was speed of relief, consistent with results from previous preference studies.

UI  - 16464810
TI  - Intensive community pharmacy intervention had little impact on triptan consumption: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - The pharmaceutical care campaign did not reduce the use of triptans.

UI  - 16440139
TI  - Value of postmarketing surveillance studies in achieving a complete picture of antimigraine agents: using almotriptan as an example.
AB  - Randomised controlled trials cannot collect all the data relevant for use in everyday clinical practice because drug exposure is limited, endpoints are restricted and some patient populations are excluded. Postmarketing surveillance (PS) studies can add important information for real-world clinical practice. Acute migraine therapy with almotriptan 12.5 mg was evaluated in 4 PS studies, 2 conducted in Spain, 1 in Germany and 1 in France. Almotriptan was associated with a high rate of treatment response and was well tolerated in all 4 studies. In the Spanish and German studies, 2-hour pain-relief, 2-hour pain-free, and sustained painfree rates were enhanced when patients treated mild pain. Patient satisfaction with almotriptan, assessed in the German and French studies, was high and the majority of patients preferred almotriptan to their previous acute migraine therapy. In conclusion, PS studies augment our knowledge of antimigraine therapy, giving a more complete picture of how such agents work in the general population.

UI  - 16426264
TI  - Subcutaneous sumatriptan provides symptomatic relief at any pain intensity or time during the migraine attack.
AB  - Over the years the paradigm of treating early during the migraine attack has become well established in clinical practice. It is also recommended that the 5-HT(1B/1D) agonists be administered early during the migraine attack for efficacy. This is because it has been proposed that most migraineurs are less responsive to delayed treatment, owing to the development of central sensitization of the pain transmission. The main objective of this prospective, cross-over study at a specialist clinic was to evaluate if these recommendations should also apply to the subcutaneous formulation of sumatriptan. Results are based on 20 adult International Headache Society migraineurs. Two attacks (n=40) were treated with 6 mg subcutaneous sumatriptan as early as possible after the onset of migraine headache and two attacks (n=40) as late as the patients could bear. The median intra-individual difference between the two strategies in time from first occurrence of pain to injection was 5.7 h and the median intra-individual difference in pain intensity at the time of injection was 29 visual analogue units. No significant differences were found in time to freedom from pain, pain severity at 1 and 2 h, area under the curves from injection to pain free or in headache recurrence after injection. At the end of the study, most of the patients claimed that their medication was as effective when given early as when given late in the course of the attack. The discrepancy between our present findings and retrospective analyses of trials on oral triptans probably has more to do with the less disturbed pharmacokinetics early during the migraine attack than with central sensitization. Consequently, we recommend nonoral formulations of triptans, which do not necessarily have to be administered early during the migraine attack to provide efficacy. In conclusion, it is reassuring for migraineurs that it is worthwhile taking their medication in an appropriate formulation even if they have not been able to do so early in the course of the attack.

UI  - 16412159
TI  - Oral sumatriptan for the acute treatment of probable migraine: first randomized, controlled study.
AB  - These results suggest that oral sumatriptan may be effective and is well tolerated for the acute treatment of probable migraine without aura, however, the difference between sumatriptan and placebo was not statistically significant for the a priori defined primary endpoint.

UI  - 16412157
TI  - Zolmitriptan oral tablet in migraine treatment: high placebo responses in adolescents.
AB  - The similar efficacy between zolmitriptan and placebo appears to be the result of the high placebo response rate. This is a recognized issue in pediatric migraine studies and there is an ongoing debate on ways to address this problem. Since this study was initiated, there has been some debate on the appropriateness of the 2-hour endpoint for response rates in adolescent studies, given the shorter duration of headache pain in adolescents compared with adults. Furthermore, accurate information regarding the timeliness of treatment and reporting of headache-related information by adolescents is difficult.

UI  - 16388340
TI  - Clinical efficacy of rizatriptan for patients with migraine: efficacy of drug therapy for migraine accompanied by tension headache-like symptoms, focusing on neck stiffness.
AB  - According to an epidemiological study in Japan, there are as many as 22 million patients with tension headache and 8.4 million with migraine. Furthermore, patients suffering from both types of headache concurrently are estimated to account for more than 50% of headache patients. We studied the efficacy of drug therapy for migraine accompanied by tension headache-like symptoms, focusing principally on neck stiffness. We evaluated the efficacy of rizatriptan by comparison of findings before and after therapy in 34 migraine patients, consisting of 16 without neck stiffness (migraine without neck factor: WONF) and 18 with it (migraine with neck factor: WNF), who received treatment at our neurology/internal medicine department from 1 March 2004 to 31 May 2005. In the study, all the patients were asked to keep a record of their migraine status. The severity of migraine was classified by physicians according to the International Headache Society diagnostic criteria, based on which drug efficacy was evaluated. We selected rizatriptan for migraine treatment in our study based on Dr. Ferrari's report. In the efficacy study of rizatriptan, in the group of 34 migraine patients, the pain relief rate (79.4%) and pain-free rate (41.2%) at two hours after treatment were as high as those reported in the meta-analysis performed by Ferrari et al., indicating high efficacy of rizatriptan. In the efficacy comparison between the WONF and WNF groups, the painfree rates were 56.3% and 27.8%, and cumulative pain relief rates were 100% and 61.1%, respectively, with better results in the WONF group. A test result was also significantly better (p=0.0076) in the WONF group. Rizatriptan was proved effective in treating migraine patients accompanied by tension headache-like symptoms. Comparison of efficacy rates between patient groups with and without tension headache-like symptoms showed that the pain relief rate in the group without neck stiffness was higher.

UI  - 16369474
TI  - Prevention of motion sickness with rizatriptan: a double-blind, placebo-controlled pilot study.
AB  - This is the first study in humans testing a triptan serotonin agonist as a preventive tool for motion sickness. Rizatriptan prevented the development of motion sickness and severe motion sickness symptoms in patients with migrainous vertigo. These pilot data suggest a possible role for serotonin in the development of motion sickness symptoms in migraineurs with migrainous vertigo.

UI  - 16362714
TI  - Treatment satisfaction with zolmitriptan nasal spray for migraine in a real life setting: results from phase two of the REALIZE study.
AB  - In phase one of the REALIZE study, zolmitriptan nasal spray demonstrated a significant headache response from 10 min post-dose and total symptom relief from 30 min post-dose. The objective of phase two was to investigate patients' dosing patterns, satisfaction and preference following open-label treatment with the nasal spray. Up to 3 attacks were treated. The ITT population consisted of 851 patients. The median time from onset of symptoms to treatment was 1 h 15 min (primary endpoint). Most patients reported being satisfied or very satisfied with zolmitriptan nasal spray (75.7%). Furthermore, the majority of patients would be willing to use zolmitriptan nasal spray in the future (59.8%) and preferred zolmitriptan nasal spray over previous therapies (57.8%). Zolmitriptan nasal spray was well tolerated. Most patients were satisfied with zolmitriptan nasal spray, were willing to continue using it and preferred it to previous therapies.

UI  - 16362711
TI  - Effect of preventive treatment on health-related quality of life in episodic migraine.
AB  - The purpose of our study was to prospectively evaluate the impact of preventive drug treatment on the quality of life of patients with episodic migraine (EM). Quality of life evaluations can enhance traditional measures of therapeutic efficacy. Thirty-five consecutive EM without aura patients attending a tertiary care unit (Batatais Headache Clinic) entered the study. They were given a prescription for preventive medication and completed the validated Portuguese version of the generic instrument Short Form-36 (SF-36) questionnaire. Six months later, patients were given another SF-36. We compared the pre-treatment and post-treatment scores for the SF-36 and analysed the headache diaries. The mean age of the 35 patients (32 women and 3 men) was 40.2 years (range 18-60 years). All 35 patients completed the pretreatment and follow-up SF-36. The pre-treatment and post-treatment mean frequency of migraine attacks was 9.16 and 2.4 crises per month, respectively (p<0.05). After the six months of preventive treatment, six of the eight domains evaluated by the SF-36 (role physical, bodily pain, general health, vitality, social function and mental health) showed statistically significant (p<0.05) improvement. The preventive treatment of migraine leads to a significant improvement in the quality of life of patients with EM. This improvement was measurable by the general quality of life instrument SF-36.

UI  - 16362704
TI  - Preliminary results of a withdrawal and detoxification therapeutic regimen in patients with probable chronic migraine and probable medication overuse headache.
AB  - Chronic migraine (CM) is an invalidating condition affecting a significant population of headache sufferers, frequently associated with medication overuse headache (MOH). Controlled trials and guidelines for the treatment of MOH are currently not available. We studied the efficacy of a therapeutic regimen for the withdrawal of the overused drug and detoxification in a sample of patients suffering from probable CM and probable MOH during admission in eight hospitals of Piemonte-Liguria-Valle d'Aosta. Fifty patients, 42 females (84%) and 8 males (16%), mean age at observation 50.66+/-13.08 years, affected by probable CM and daily medication overuse following IHS diagnostic criteria were treated as inpatients or in a day hospital. Headache index (HI) and daily drug intake (DDI) were used for evaluating the severity of headache and medication overuse. The patients were treated by abrupt discontinuation of the overused drug and by a therapeutic protocol including i.v. hydration, dexamethasone, metoclopramide and benzodiazepines for 7-10 days. Prophylactic medication was started immediately after admission. Analgesics or triptans were used under medical control only in cases of severe rebound headache. Diagnostic protocol included routine blood tests (at admission and at discharge), dosage of B12 and folic acid. Patients underwent follow-up controls one, three and six months after discharge. The initial diagnosis was probable CM in almost all patients included in the study (41 patients); in nine patients the diagnosis was not specified (coded only as CDH). The overused medications were simple analgesics in 17 cases (34%), combination analgesics in 19 cases (38%), triptans alone or with analgesics in 13 cases (26%) and ergotamine in 2 cases (4%). We collected data from 39 patients at first follow-up (1 month), 32 after 3 months and 14 after 6 months. Mean HI was 0.91 at admission, 0.22 at discharge, 0.38 after 30 days, 0.46 after 3 months and 0.48 after 6 months. Mean DDI was 2.80 at admission, 0.39 at discharge, 0.41 after 1 month, 0.52 after 3 months and 0.59 after 6 months. These results are on average positive and tend to remain stable with time. Although preliminary and obtained on a limited number of patients at 6-month follow-up, our results seem to be encouraging about the use of the proposed therapeutic protocol.

UI  - 16362700
TI  - Weight variations in the prophylactic therapy of primary headaches: 6-month follow-up.
AB  - We conducted a study on 367 patients (86% female, 14% male; mean age 37+/-15 years) suffering from migraine with and without aura and chronic tension-type headache to evaluate the incidence of weight gain, an undesirable side effect observed during prophylactic therapy in primary headaches. Patients treated with amitriptyline (20 and 40 mg), pizotifen (1 mg), propranolol (80-160 mg), atenolol (50-100 mg), verapamil (160-240 mg), valproate (600 mg) and gabapentin (900-1200 mg) were evaluated after a period of 3 and 6 months. In particular, 89 patients were assessed (78% female, 22% male) at 6 months, of whom 10 were in treatment with amitriptyline 20 mg, 19 with amitriptyline 40 mg, 7 with pizotifen (1 mg), 13 with propranolol (80-160 mg), 4 with verapamil (160 mg), 10 with valproate (600 mg), 15 with atenolol (50 mg) and 11 with gabapentin (900-1200 mg). The control group consisted of 97 patients with migraine (79% female, 21% male; mean age 35+/-16 years) without indication for prophylactic therapy. Weight variations >or=1 kg were considered. After 6 months of therapy, the percentage of patients with weight gain was 86% with pizotifen (6/7; mean weight increase 4.4+/-2.5 kg), 60% with amitriptyline 20 mg (6/10; 3.1+/-1.6), 47% with amitriptyline 40 mg (9/19; 5.4+/-2.7), 25% with valproate 600 mg (2/8, 3.0+/-2.8 kg), 25% with verapamil (1/4, 2.5 kg), 20% with atenolol (3/15, 1.7+/-0.6 kg), 9% with gabapentin (1/11, 1.5 kg) and 8% with propranolol (1/13; 6 kg). We conclude that propranolol, gabapentin, atenolol, verapamil and valproate affect body weight in a modest percentage of patients at 6 months. A greater mean weight gain at 6 months was found in patients treated with pizotifen, amitriptyline, and, in one patient out of 13, with propranolol.

UI  - 16362699
TI  - Pharmacokinetics of sumatriptan in non-respondent and in adverse drug reaction reporting migraine patients.
AB  - Sumatriptan is a selective agonist of 5HT1 (1B/1D) receptors, which has proved to be effective and safe for the acute treatment of migraine attacks. Nevertheless, its use by migraine sufferers is still limited and some patients consider adverse reactions related to sumatriptan, especially chest symptoms, unacceptable even if not serious. Moreover, in clinical trials, almost one third and one sixth of patients, respectively, fail to experience headache relief either after oral or after subcutaneous sumatriptan administration. Our aim was to verify whether differences in sumatriptan pharmacokinetics could explain non-response and/or adverse drug reactions. Sumatriptan levels were determined by HPLC with electrochemical detection. Pharmacokinetic parameters were calculated using a computer program (PK Solutions 2.0; non compartmental Pharmacokinetics Data Analysis). After oral administration, sumatriptan is rapidly absorbed and sometimes displays multiple peaks of plasma concentration. This "multiple peaking" gives rise to considerable inter-subject variability in the time of reaching maximum plasma concentration. Pharmacokinetic parameters of sumatriptan, both after oral and subcutaneous administration, were similar in the three patient groups. Blood pressure and heart rate did not show any significant differences between groups. Pharmacokinetic parameters and bioavailability of sumatriptan did not seem to be correlated either to the lack of efficacy or the appearance of side effects. These results could depend on the limited number of patients studied.

UI  - 16362647
TI  - Managing migraine headaches experienced by patients who self-report with menstrually related migraine: a prospective, placebo-controlled study with oral sumatriptan.
AB  - The objective was to evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of oral sumatriptan (100 mg) in patients who self-reported with menstrually related migraine. A prospective, multicentre, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, two-group crossover study was carried out in 20 UK primary and secondary care surgeries. Of 115 patients with a self-reported history of menstrually related migraine that entered the study, 93 patients completed it. Patients treated all migraine attacks for 2 months with sumatriptan (100 mg) and for 2 months with placebo. The primary endpoint was the proportion of patients reporting headache relief at 4 hours for the first treated attack. Only 11% of patients fulfilled the protocol definition of menstrually related migraine. Patients reported a variable pattern of migraine attacks occurring inside and outside the menstrual window. For the first attack, significantly more patients receiving sumatriptan than placebo reported headache relief for attacks occurring inside (67% vs. 33%, p=0.007) and outside (79% vs. 31%, p<0.001) the menstrual period. Sumatriptan was generally well tolerated. Oral sumatriptan (100 mg) is an effective and well tolerated acute treatment for patients who report menstrually related migraine.

UI  - 16362192
TI  - Observations of the "carry-over effect" following successful termination of chronic migraine in the adolescent with short-term dihydroergotamine, dexamethasone and hydroxyzine: a pilot study.
AB  - Chronic migraine management almost always requires daily oral preventative medication with potential adverse effects. Daily oral preventative therapy may also not be effective in terminating chronic migraine. Chronic central sensitisation caused by repetitive migraine attacks in a young person may lower the threshold for future migraine episodes leading to an intractable and debilitating disease course. The objective was to determine if short-term parenteral dihydroergotamine, dexamethasone and hydroxyzine can terminate chronic migraine and be followed by a continuous respite or conversion to a more benign episodic form without the need for daily oral preventative medication ("carry-over effect"). We treated ten patients, seven adolescents and three adults, with parenteral dihydroergotamine, dexamethasone and hydroxyzine given once a week for a maximum of three weeks. No oral preventative daily medication was administered. The setting was a private practice. Chronic migraine was terminated in all 7 adolescents. Their post-treatment course was converted to a more benign episodic migraine course and no adolescent required daily oral migraine preventative therapy for significantly long carry-over post-treatment observational periods. None of the three adult chronic migraine cases could be terminated satisfactorily as they all required daily oral preventative therapy. In the adolescent group only, this strategy terminated chronic migraine and resulted in a significant carry-over effect that appeared to favourably modify the long-term course without the need for daily pharmacological, potentially toxic, preventive therapy. Although this is a very small study, which requires confirmation by a larger controlled study, our data suggest a significant carryover effect in the young migraineur by administering short-term parenteral dihydroergotamine, dexamethasone and hydroxyzine.

UI  - 16355295
TI  - Intramuscular tramadol vs. diclofenac sodium for the treatment of acute migraine attacks in emergency department: a prospective, randomised, double-blind study.
AB  - The aim of this prospective, randomised, double-blind study was to evaluate the efficacy of intramuscular (IM) tramadol 100 mg in emergency department treatment of acute migraine attack and to compare it with that of IM diclofenac sodium 75 mg. Forty patients who were admitted to our emergency department with acute migraine attack according to the International Headache Society criteria were included in the study. Patients were randomised to receive either tramadol 100 mg (n=20) or diclofenac sodium 75 mg (n=20) intramuscularly. Patients rated their pain on a four-point verbal scale (0=none, 1=mild, 2=moderate, 3=severe) at the beginning of the trial and at 30, 60, 90 and 120 min. At each time interval, severity of associated symptoms were also questioned and recorded. Global evaluation of the drugs by patients and doctors were also recorded. Patients were also asked if they would prefer the same injection in future visits. Any adverse events, whether related to the drug or not, were also recorded. Patients were followed up by telephone 48 h later to check for any headache recurrence. Two-hour pain response rate, which was the primary endpoint, was 80% for both tramadol and diclofenac groups. There were no statistically significant differences among groups in terms of 48-h pain response, rescue treatment, associated symptoms' response, headache recurrence and adverse event rates. Fifteen (75%) patients in the tramadol group and 16 (80%) patients in the diclofenac group stated that they may prefer the same agent for future admissions. In selected patients, tramadol 100 mg IM may be an effective and reliable alternative treatment choice in acute migraine attacks.

UI  - 16340383
TI  - Efficacy of topiramate and valproate in chronic migraine.
AB  - Valproate and topiramate seem to be able to manage successfully chronic migraine without substantial differences in efficacy and tolerability. This affords clear practical advantages-in the event of failure of or intolerance for one treatment, the patient may be switched to the other.

UI  - 16324164
TI  - Tramadol/acetaminophen for the treatment of acute migraine pain: findings of a randomized, placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - Tramadol/APAP reduces the severity of pain, photophobia, and phonophobia associated with migraine headache, but does not reduce migraine-associated nausea. Tramadol/APAP might be an appropriate option for the management of moderate-to-severe migraine headache.

UI  - 16291905
TI  - Lamotrigine reduces migraine aura and migraine attacks in patients with migraine with aura.
AB  - This study examined the efficacy of lamotrigine in the prevention of migraine aura. Fifty nine patients suffering from migraine with aura received lamotrigine in a controlled three year prospective open study. Treatment response was defined as a reduction of aura frequency each month by at least 50%. Primary endpoint was reached by three quarters of the patients. Lamotrigine significantly reduced both frequency of migraine aura (mean, 1.5 (SD, 0.6) each month before v 0.4 (0.7) after treatment; p < 0.001) and aura duration (mean, 27 (SD, 11) minutes before v 8 (14) after treatment; p < 0.001). Furthermore, more than three quarters of those patients with a reduction of aura symptoms experienced a significant reduction of frequency of migraine attacks (mean, 2.1 (SD, 1.0) each month before v 1.2 (1.1) after treatment; p < 0.001). Lamotrigine was highly effective in reducing migraine aura and migraine attacks. The strong correlation between reduction of aura symptoms and migraine attacks stresses the potential role of aura-like events and possibly cortical spreading depression as a trigger for trigeminal vascular activation, and subsequently the development of migraine headaches.

UI  - 16259812
TI  - Prevention of migraine in the pill-free interval of combined oral contraceptives: a double-blind, placebo-controlled pilot study using natural oestrogen supplements.
AB  - The results of this pilot study suggest that use of 50 microg oestrogen patches during the pill-free interval may reduce the frequency and severity of migraine at that time. This study should be repeated with larger numbers of women and a higher dose of oestrogen.

UI  - 16238900
TI  - Efficacy of almotriptan 12.5 mg in achieving migraine-related composite endpoints: a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled study in patients controlled study in patients with previous poor response to sumatriptan 50 mg.
AB  - Almotriptan is more effective than placebo and similarly well-tolerated for the acute treatment of migraine in patients who responded poorly to oral sumatriptan.

UI  - 16178945
TI  - Valdecoxib for treatment of a single, acute, moderate to severe migraine headache.
AB  - A single 40-mg dose of valdecoxib is effective and well tolerated in treatment of migraine headache pain and associated symptoms.

UI  - 16178944
TI  - Rizatriptan 10-mg wafer versus usual nontriptan therapy for migraine: analysis of return to function and patient preference.
AB  - Patients in this study were more likely to experience a return to normal function at 2 hours after receiving rizatriptan than after their usual nontriptan therapy for migraine. The results of this study, using patient-oriented, clinically relevant endpoints such as functional disability and preference, will help to guide practitioners in making recommendations for acute migraine treatment.

UI  - 16162254
TI  - The fixed combination of acetylsalicylic acid, paracetamol and caffeine is more effective than single substances and dual combination for the treatment of headache: a multicentre, randomized, double-blind, single-dose, placebo-controlled parallel group study.
AB  - We investigated efficacy, safety, and tolerability of two tablets of the fixed combination of 250 mg acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) + 200 mg paracetamol + 50 mg caffeine (Thomapyrin) in comparison with two tablets of 250 mg ASA + 200 mg paracetamol, two tablets of 500 mg ASA, two tablets of 500 mg paracetamol, two tablets of 50 mg caffeine, and placebo in patients who were used to treating their episodic tension-type headache or migraine attacks with non-prescription analgesics. For the primary endpoint "time to 50% pain relief" in the intention-to-treat dataset (n = 1743 patients), the fixed combination of ASA, paracetamol and caffeine was statistically significantly superior to the combination without caffeine (P = 0.0181), the mono-substances ASA (P = 0.0398), paracetamol (P = 0.0016), caffeine (P < 0.0001) and placebo (P < 0.0001). All active treatments except caffeine differed significantly (P < 0.0001) from placebo. The superior efficacy of the triple combination could also be shown for all secondary endpoints such as time until reduction of pain intensity to 10 mm, weighted sum of pain intensity difference (%SPIDweighted), extent of impairment of daily activities, global assessment of efficacy. All treatments were well tolerated. The incidence of adverse events observed was low.

UI  - 16153780
TI  - Evaluation of the efficacy of intravenous acetaminophen in the treatment of acute migraine attacks: a double-blind, placebo-controlled parallel group multicenter study.
AB  - The efficacy of intravenous acetaminophen (1000mg) in the treatment of acute migraine attacks as an alternative to parenteral application of lysine acetylsalicylate or triptans was investigated, using a multi-center, randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled study design. Migraine diagnosis was made according to the International Headache Society Classification. Sixty patients were included in three headache outpatient centers (Neurology Departments of the Universities of Regensburg, Mnster and Mnchen). In the acute migraine attack patients were treated intravenously with either 1000mg paracetamol (acetaminophen) or placebo. The primary end point was pain-free after 2h. Secondary efficacy criteria were pain-free after 24h or pain relief after 2hours and after 24hours. With regard to the efficacy criteria, 37% of patients reported pain relief or painfree after two hours, 12 patients after treatment with acetaminophen and 10 patients after treatment with placebo. Out of these, 3 patients in the acetaminophen and 4 patients in the placebo group were painfree. After 24hours 86% of the patients reported pain relief: 24 treated with acetaminophen and 27 treated with placebo. The results indicate, that 1000mg intravenous acetaminophen is not superior to placebo in treating severe acute migraine attacks.

UI  - 16127373
TI  - Gelstat Migraine (sublingually administered feverfew and ginger compound) for acute treatment of migraine when administered during the mild pain phase.
AB  - GelStat Migraine is effective as a first line abortive treatment for migraine when initiated early during the mild headache phase.

UI  - 16123089
TI  - Estradiol supplementation modulates neuroendocrine response to M-chlorophenylpiperazine in menstrual status migrainosus triggered by oral contraception-free interval.
AB  - Status migrainosus triggered by OC-free interval is associated with impaired prolactin and cortisol responses following m-CPP challenge. Transdermal E2 supplementation is able to restore neuroendocrine response to this specific 5-HT agent, exerting a positive clinical effect on the course of menstrually related migraine.

UI  - 16109111
TI  - Sumatriptan and naproxen sodium for the acute treatment of migraine.
AB  - This is among the first prospective studies to demonstrate that multi-mechanism acute therapy for migraine, combining a triptan and an analgesic, is well tolerated and offers improved clinical benefits over monotherapy with these selected standard antimigraine treatments. Specifically, sumatriptan 50 mg (encapsulated) and naproxen sodium 500 mg resulted in significantly superior pain relief as compared to monotherapy with either sumatriptan 50 mg (encapsulated) or naproxen sodium 500 mg for the acute treatment of migraine. Because encapsulation of the sumatriptan for blinding purposes may have altered its pharmacokinetic profile and thereby decreased the efficacy responses, additional studies are warranted that do not involve encapsulation of the active treatments and assess the true onset of action of multi-mechanism therapy in migraine. This study did show that the combination of sumatriptan and naproxen sodium was well tolerated and that there was no significant increase in the incidence of adverse events compared to monotherapy.

UI  - 16109110
TI  - Acetaminophen, aspirin, and caffeine versus sumatriptan succinate in the early treatment of migraine: results from the ASSET trial.
AB  - The combination of acetaminophen, aspirin, and caffeine was significantly more effective (P > .05) than sumatriptan in the early treatment of migraine, as shown by superiority in summed pain intensity difference, pain relief, pain intensity difference, response, sustained response, relief of associated symptoms, use of rescue medication, disability relief, and global assessments of effectiveness. An additional, larger clinical trial is needed to confirm these results.

UI  - 16109056
TI  - Eletriptan in the early treatment of acute migraine: influence of pain intensity and time of dosing.
AB  - This double-blind, placebo-controlled study was designed to evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of early treatment of a single migraine attack, when headache pain was mild, with two doses (20 mg and 40 mg) of eletriptan. Patients (N = 613; female 79%; mean age 39 years) meeting International Headache Society criteria for migraine were encouraged, but not required, to utilize early treatment, thus providing an opportunity to assess the relative contribution to efficacy of pain severity and timing of dose. For the total patient sample (mild-to-severe headaches), 2-h pain-free rates were significantly higher than placebo (22%) on both eletriptan 20 mg (35%; P < 0.01) and eletriptan 40 mg (47%; P < 0.0001). For the cohort of patients who treated their headache when the pain intensity was mild, the 2-h pain-free rate on eletriptan 40 mg was 68% compared with 25% on placebo (P < 0.0001). Pain intensity at the time of taking eletriptan appeared to influence outcome more than the timing of the dose relative to headache onset. Eletriptan was well-tolerated, with adverse event rates similar to placebo when mild headaches were treated.

UI  - 16109055
TI  - Eletriptan treatment of migraine in patients switching from barbiturate-containing analgesics: results from a multiple-attack study.
AB  - The aim of this study was to examine efficacy and tolerability of eletriptan in patients switched from barbiturate-containing combinations (Fiorinal), Fioricet. Migraineurs (n = 160) meeting IHS criteria, with unsatisfactory response in the past year to butalbital-containing combinations, treated up to 16 attacks over 3 months with eletriptan 40 mg. Assessments included headache response and pain-free rates and functional impairment at baseline and 2 h postdose, and global ratings of treatment satisfaction at 24 h. At 2 h postdose, average headache response and pain-free rates were 71% (95% CI, 69-74%) and 37% (95% CI, 35-40%), respectively; 68.5% of patients (95% CI, 65-72%) reported functional response. Within-patient analysis found no efficacy diminution over time (no tolerance). Average headache recurrence rate was 20% (95% CI, 18-23%). Eletriptan was well-tolerated; 6 (3.7%) patients discontinued due to adverse events. There were no serious treatment-related adverse events. We conclude that in poor responders to butalbital-caffeine combinations, switching to eletriptan 40 mg was well-tolerated and efficacious.

UI  - 15985104
TI  - Almotriptan in migraine patients who respond poorly to oral sumatriptan: a double-blind, randomized trial.
AB  - Almotriptan 12.5 mg is an effective and well-tolerated alternative for patients who respond poorly to sumatriptan 50 mg. A poor response to one triptan does not predict a poor response to other agents in that class.

UI  - 15985101
TI  - Terminating migraine with allodynia and ongoing central sensitization using parenteral administration of COX1/COX2 inhibitors.
AB  - The termination of migraine with ongoing allodynia using COX1/COX2 inhibitors is achieved through the suppression of central sensitization. Although parenteral administration of COX1/COX2 inhibitors is impractical as routine migraine therapy, it should be the rescue therapy of choice for patients seeking emergency care for migraine. These patients should never be treated with opioids, particularly if they had no prior opioid exposure.

UI  - 15958097
TI  - Multiple attack study on the available triptans in Italy versus placebo.
AB  - The aim of the study is to evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of the five triptans that are commercially available in Italy (zolmitriptan 2.5 mg, rizatriptan 10 mg, sumatriptan 100 mg, almotriptan 12.5 mg and eletriptan 40 mg). The study was conducted in single-blind versus placebo and its duration was 18 months. At the Headache Centre of the 'Agostino Gemelli' Hospital in Rome we selected 42 patients, suffering from headache with and without aura (International Headache Society Committee on Headache Classification, 1988 Cephalalgia 8:1-96), whose headache frequency ranged between 1- and 4-monthly crises. For a total of 25 crises, for every five consecutive crises, a different triptan was taken. The end-points of the study were as follows: response at 2 h, 'pain free' at 2 h and 'sustained pain free' (at 24 h). The intra-patient consistency and the tolerability were also evaluated. Thirty patients completed the study and the statistical analysis was only applied to these patients. No substantial difference in terms of the efficacy of the triptans was noted; all triptans were well tolerated. These results suggest the possibility of testing different triptans in the same patient in order to identify the ideal drug for every patient.

UI  - 15955041
TI  - Platelet activation and platelet-leucocyte interaction in patients with migraine. Subtype differences and influence of triptans.
AB  - As migraine is the result of an inflammatory mechanism with serotonergic signalling, leucocyte function, platelet function and intercellular communication between those cells is likely to be connected to the final pathway of the disease. We examined P-selectin expression on platelets (platelet activation) and leucocyte-platelet aggregate formation in 72 migraine patients during their attack-free interval and controls using a flow cytometric assay. Patients suffering from migraine without aura had a significantly increased platelet activation and leucocyte-platelet aggregation compared with the control group, unlike the migraine patients with aura. Patients who had taken a triptan within 3 days prior to the investigation showed platelet activation values similar to the control group. The variations in platelet activation patterns of migraine subgroups could indicate different pathomechanisms. Even outside an attack, migraine patients, particularly those without aura, show an increased level of platelet activation which seems to be down-regulated by triptans. This mechanism may account for the triptan-induced increases in headache frequency. The involvement of proinflammatory platelet-leucocyte cross-talk suggests a possible therapeutic strategy using anti-inflammatory drugs.

UI  - 15953309
TI  - The combination of naratriptan and prochlorperazine in migraine treatment.
AB  - 

UI  - 15922814
TI  - Two replicate randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials of the time to onset of pain relief in the acute treatment of migraine with a fast-disintegrating/rapid-release formulation of sumatriptan tablets.
AB  - In these studies, sumatriptan tablets in a fast-disintegrating/rapid-release formulation were effective for the acute treatment of moderate to severe migraine pain, were generally well tolerated, and achieved an onset of pain relief as early as 20 minutes for 100 mg and as early as 30 minutes for 50 mg.

UI  - 15920337
TI  - Almotriptan in migraine patients who respond poorly to oral sumatriptan: a double-blind, randomized trial.
AB  - Almotriptan 12.5 mg is an effective and well-tolerated alternative for patients who respond poorly to sumatriptan 50 mg. A poor response to one triptan does not predict a poor response to other agents in that class.

UI  - 15889585
TI  - The effect of the definition of menstrually-related headache on the response to biofeedback treatment.
AB  - Twelve women with either pure migraine headache (HA) or a combination of migraine and tension-type HA monitored HA activity over two menstrual cycles while noting onset of menstruation and onset of ovulation. They then received 12 sessions of thermal biofeedback (TBF) with adjunctive autogenic training. Six women with only tension-type HA participated in similar monitoring before receiving 9 sessions of progressive relaxation training. Results for those with vascular HA showed a significant reduction in HA activity and a reduction in medication taken for HAs. Those with tension-type HA did not respond significantly to the relaxation training. Depending upon how one defined menstrually-related HAs among those with vascular HA, there either was, or was not, a differential effect of TBF on menstrual-cycle-related HA.

UI  - 15839851
TI  - Effects of symptomatic treatments on cutaneous hyperalgesia and laser evoked potentials during migraine attack.
AB  - Previously an amplitude enhancement of laser evoked potentials (LEPs) was detected during migraine attack: we further examined pain threshold to CO2 laser stimuli and LEPs during attacks, evaluating the effect of almotriptan, lysine-acetylsalicylate and placebo treatment on cutaneous hyperalgesia to thermal stimuli delivered by CO2 laser and on LEP components. Eighteen patients suffering from migraine without aura were analysed. They were divided into three groups of six patients each, randomly assigned to lysine acetyl-salicylate, almotriptan or placebo treatments. The supraorbital zones and the dorsum of the hand were stimulated on both the symptomatic and not symptomatic side in all patients. The LEPs were recorded by 25 scalp electrodes. During attacks, the P2 wave was significantly enhanced; the amplitude of the P2 component obtained by the stimulation of the supraorbital zone during the attack on the side of the headache was significantly correlated with the intensity of pain and the frequency of headache. Both almotriptan and lysine acetyl-salicylate significantly reduced the P2 amplitude but they showed no effects on hyperalgesia to laser stimulation; headache relief following therapy was correlated with the reduction of the P2 amplitude. The cortical elaboration of laser-induced experimental pain seemed increased during migraine attack, and the severity of headache was mainly related to the increase of the later LEPs components expressing the attentive and emotive compounds of suffering. Reversion of this process appeared to be primarily responsible for the efficacy of drugs in treating migraine, though both almotriptan and lysine-acetil salicilate seemed to have no effect in reducing sensitization at second and third order nociceptive neurons.

UI  - 15839848
TI  - Critical flicker frequency in migraine. A controlled study in patients without prophylactic therapy.
AB  - The critical flicker frequencies (CFF) of individuals with migraine with and without aura were determined and compared to those of normal controls. Twenty-six migraine patients, 12 with aura and 14 without aura and 30 healthy controls were included. Migraineurs were tested during a migraine-free period, through both the continuous flicker method (CFM) and the forced choice method (FCM). Migraineurs presented a mean flickering fusion threshold lower than healthy controls with the CFM (40.45 vs. 44.33, respectively; P = 0.019) and with the FCM (34.16 Hz vs. 38.5 Hz, respectively, P = 0.019). Both groups of migraineurs had significantly lower thresholds as compared to controls, migraineurs with aura presenting the lowest thresholds for the fusion of flickering (P = 0.008 and P = 0.0001 with the CFM and the FCM, respectively). Results confirmed and extended previous observations of abnormal flicker fusion thresholds in migraineurs. We hypothesize that this finding might be related to a shorter cortical stimulation silent period.

UI  - 15836966
TI  - Anti-migraine action of triptans is preceded by transient aggravation of headache caused by activation of meningeal nociceptors.
AB  - Consistent with previous accounts, some of the patients visiting our pain clinic during the course of a migraine attack have indicated-without solicitation-that sumatriptan injection initially intensified their headache before they were able to appreciate any pain relief. In this study, those patients who came forward complaining about pain exacerbation were asked to rate their headache intensity every 5 min. Within 5-15 min of sumatriptan injection, 17 of the 31 patients studied (55%) reported that their migraine pain intensified for 10-15 min before they started to notice any pain relief. Similar pattern of pain exacerbation was also observed in migraine attacks treated with oral formulation of almotriptan, eletriptan, rizatriptan, and zolmitriptan. To investigate the possible mechanism underlying this transient exacerbation of pain, we examined whether intravenous administration of sumatriptan can alter the response properties of C- and Adelta-meningeal nociceptors in the rat. Five to twenty minutes after intravenous administration of 300 microg/kg sumatriptan, 8/10 C-units and 2/8 Adelta-units increased their firing rate, and 6/10 C-units and 7/8 Adelta-units developed mechanical hyper-responsiveness to dural indentation. The minimal effective dose for activation and sensitization of meningeal nociceptors by sumatriptan was 3 microg/kg, suggesting that relatively low levels of triptans entering the circulation shortly after their administration can alter the physiological properties of meningeal nociceptors and produce a transient exacerbation of headache.

UI  - 15836592
TI  - Migraine prevention in children and adolescents: results of an open study with a special butterbur root extract.
AB  - The results and low rate of adverse events in this open prospective migraine prevention study in children and adolescents are similar to the results of two multicenter placebo-controlled butterbur studies in adults. Butterbur root extract shows a potential as an effective and well-tolerated migraine prophylaxis also for children and teenagers.

UI  - 15836579
TI  - Acetazolamide efficacy and tolerability in migraine with aura: a pilot study.
AB  - The study was an open uncontrolled pilot trial to test the efficacy and the tolerability of acetazolamide in a group of 22 outpatients suffering from migraine with aura (MA) with at least one aura episode in the last 2 months.

UI  - 15836573
TI  - Botox therapy for refractory chronic migraine.
AB  - Chronic migraine is unfortunately both common and often resistant to treatment even with prophylactic medications known to be effective in populations with episodic migraine. We undertook an open-label study to evaluate the safety and utility of botulinum toxin type A injection therapy for patients with chronic migraine who previously had failed to respond to at least three prophylactic medications.

UI  - 15836571
TI  - Pilot study evaluating preference for 3-mg versus 6-mg subcutaneous sumatriptan.
AB  - Combining efficacy and tolerability endpoints may be clinically meaningful and reflective of real-world expectations. In some patients, a lower dose of sumatriptan injection may be beneficial.

UI  - 15836564
TI  - Aspirin is efficacious for the treatment of acute migraine.
AB  - This study demonstrates that aspirin is safe and effective for treatment of acute migraine in appropriately selected patients.

UI  - 15827012
TI  - Use of topiramate (topamax) in a subgroup of migraine-vertigo patients with auditory symptoms.
AB  - Five-three percent of the patients who suffer from migraine present severe incapacity and need rest in bed. If we add to this the incapacity produced by vertigo, then the quality of life of these patients is seriously affected. Migraine/Vertigo (MV) should be another criterion in the selection of preventive treatment even when other criteria are not fulfilled. Auditory symptoms may accompany MV. We treated 10 patients with Topiramate in an open trial, twice a day, with an average dose of 100 mg/day. The treatment period for these patients ranges between 6 and 16 months, with a mean of 9. As of today, all patients present no crisis. Regarding auditory symptoms, all the patients referred that they were stabilized. The effect began quickly, from the first month in most patients as it has been reported in other studies.

UI  - 15811594
TI  - Rizatriptan does not change cerebral blood flow velocity during migraine attacks.
AB  - Rizatriptan represents a major advance in the treatment of migraine attack: inhibition of peripheral trigeminal nerve and constriction of intracranial extracerebral blood vessels have been proposed as its main antimigraine mechanisms of action. Although many studies may suggest that rizatriptan causes highly selective vasoconstriction within intracranial extracerebral vessels (i.e., meningeal arteries), no literature data are available to date on possible cerebral hemodynamic changes in humans after treatment with rizatriptan. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of rizatriptan on cerebral blood flow velocity performing transcranial Doppler during spontaneous attacks of migraine without aura. Fourteen patients suffering from migraine without aura were monitored to evaluate mean flow velocity changes on both middle cerebral arteries during migraine attack 30 min before and 120 min after oral administration of rizatriptan 10mg. Monitoring was repeated for 30 min during the pain-free period. All patients turned out to be drug responders and no significant mean flow velocity changes were observed between the pain-free period and pre-treatment phase; besides no significant difference in mean flow velocity value have been detected between the periods after the drug administration during the attack versus both pre-treatment period and pain-free phase. These findings indicate that the antimigraine action of rizatriptan is not associated with clear intracranial cerebral hemodynamic changes and may support its cerebrovascular safety.

UI  - 15811210
TI  - How treatment priorities influence triptan preferences in clinical practice: perspectives of migraine sufferers, neurologists, and primary care physicians.
AB  - Almotriptan, eletriptan, and rizatriptan were the three triptans closest to the ideal, from the perspectives of migraine sufferers, PCPs, and neurologists alike. The TRIPSTAR model may be a potentially useful decision-support tool to help physicians select the triptan most likely to produce a successful outcome in migraine sufferers.

UI  - 15811207
TI  - Pain-free rates with zolmitriptan 2.5 mg ODT in the acute treatment of migraine: results of a large double-blind placebo- controlled trial.
AB  - Zolmitriptan 2.5 mg ODT, taken as early as possible after onset of a migraine attack, is effective in the treatment of migraine, producing a significantly higher pain-free rate than placebo 2 h post-dose, and also at the earlier time points of 1 h and 1.5 h post-dose.

UI  - 15773824
TI  - FRAMIG 2000: medical and therapeutic management of migraine in France.
AB  - FRAMIG 2000 is a population-based survey of medical and therapeutic management of migraine in France. A total of 312 migraine sufferers were first identified from a representative sample of 4689 adult subjects using a validated questionnaire based on the IHS migraine diagnostic criteria and administered by telephone. Subjects were then interviewed using a branching questionnaire and a computer-assisted interview technique. Although 80% were self-aware of their migrainous state, 82% of migraine sufferers had no medical follow-up for migraine. The proportion of migraine sufferers who did not consult decreased slightly with increasing migraine-related disability (from 87% for subjects in MIDAS grade I to 68% for those in MIDAS grade IV). Migraine sufferers declared to effectively control only four attacks out of 10 after the first intake of the usual treatment. Only 6% of subjects in the survey received a prophylactic treatment for migraine whereas 22% were in MIDAS grade III or IV. These data show that the burden of migraine does not result from a deficit in diagnosis but instead from a deficit in patient information on the proper use of current effective treatments of migraine.

UI  - 15771135
TI  - [Assessment of efficacy of migraine attack treatment with lysine acetylsalicylate and metoclopramide].
AB  - Migraine is a common medical condition affecting nearly 10% of population in Poland. The aim of the study was to evaluate the efficacy, tolerability and safety of migraine abortive treatment with the combination of lysine acetylsalicylate and metoclopramide (1620 mg LAS + 10 mg MTC--Migpriv). 1620 patients with migraine, meeting International Headache Society (IHS) criteria were included in the study. The aim of the study was also determination of the number of patients having headache relief and no nausea or vomiting two hours after the drug intake. In most patients the migraine symptoms disappeared after a single dose administration. Reported adverse events were rare and short lasting. The study showed that metoclopramide was well tolerated and effective at relieving migraine attack symptoms.

UI  - 15705116
TI  - Clinical characteristics and patterns of medication use of migraneurs in Latin America from 12 cities in 6 countries.
AB  - Migraine is a common disorder in Latin American urban communities imposing significant burden on individuals, families, and communities. The magnitude of the impact and the range of activities affected by migraine are similar to those of previous reports in other regions. The preponderance of nonprescription medications and the scarcity of migraine-specific triptans from the study findings are especially striking.

UI  - 15701219
TI  - Effects of a fast disintegrating/rapid release oral formulation of sumatriptan on functional ability in patients with migraine.
AB  - A new oral sumatriptan formulation confers rapid, sustained restoration of functional ability in the acute treatment of migraine so that patients can return rapidly to normal functioning at work and outside of work.

UI  - 15699376
TI  - A trial of metoclopramide vs sumatriptan for the emergency department treatment of migraines.
AB  - When compared at 2 and 24 hours, aggressive (20 mg dosed up to four times) IV metoclopramide and 6 mg of subcutaneous sumatriptan relieved migraine headache pain comparably. Some secondary endpoints suggest that metoclopramide may be the preferable therapy for migraines presenting to the emergency department.

UI  - 15697326
TI  - Speed of onset, efficacy and tolerability of zolmitriptan nasal spray in the acute treatment of migraine: a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study.
AB  - Zolmitriptan nasal spray is highly effective in the acute treatment of migraine and has a very fast onset of action, producing significant headache response and pain-free rates as early as 15 minutes post-dose (the earliest assessment in this study). In addition to the very fast onset of action, zolmitriptan nasal spray produced significantly higher sustained headache response and pain-free rates at 24 hours post-dose compared with placebo. These desirable efficacy outcomes were combined with good tolerability.

UI  - 15691457
TI  - [Tolerance to almotriptan and its effectiveness in primary care].
AB  - 

UI  - 15689715
TI  - Cortical hyperexcitability in migraine patients before and after sodium valproate treatment.
AB  - DC-magnetoencephalography (DC-MEG)waveforms arising during migraine aura were used to determine the effectiveness of prophylactic medication therapy on neuronal hyperexcitability. Nine patients were prescribed valproate (Depakote) for migraine prophylaxis. MEG scans were recorded during visual stimulation before commencing medication and again after 30 days of daily use of valproate. Cortical brain activity was recorded during stimulation with a black-and-white circular checkerboard pattern alternating at 8 Hz and were analyzed with MR-FOCUSS. Large-amplitude DC-MEG signals, imaged to extended areas of occipital cortex, were seen before therapy. After 30 days of prophylactic treatment, reduced DC-MEG shifts in the occipital cortex and reduced incidence of migraine attacks were observed. Using visual stimulation, the authors demonstrated the hyperexcitability of widespread regions throughout occipital cortex in migraine patients, explaining the susceptibility for triggering spreading cortical depression and migraine aura. This study confirms that MEG can noninvasively determine the status of neuronal excitability before and after therapy. This finding may be helpful in determining which prophylactic medications will be most effective in reducing hyperexcitability in particular patients.

UI  - 15689195
TI  - A randomized prospective placebo-controlled study of intravenous magnesium sulphate vs. metoclopramide in the management of acute migraine attacks in the Emergency Department.
AB  - The objective of this randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind study was to determine the effectiveness of intravenous magnesium sulphate and intravenous metoclopramide in the treatment of acute migraine attacks in the Emergency Department when compared with placebo. Adult patients who presented to the Emergency Department with a headache that met International Headache Society (IHS) criteria for acute migraine were infused with either 10 mg of intravenous metoclopramide, 2 g of intravenous magnesium sulphate or normal saline over 10 min. At 0, 15, and 30 min, patients were asked to rate their pain on a standard visual analogue scale. At 30 min, patients were asked in a standard manner about the need for rescue medication. Adverse affects were also recorded. Patients were followed up by telephone within 24 h for any recurrence after discharge. The primary endpoint of the study was the difference in pain relief between the groups at 30 min. Of the 120 patients who met IHS criteria, seven were excluded from the study due to insufficient data. The number of patients, gender, age and initial visual analogue scale (VAS) scores were comparable between groups. Each group experienced more than a 25-mm improvement in VAS score at 30 min. However, there was no significant difference detected in the mean changes in VAS scores for pain. The rescue medication requirement was higher in the placebo group. The recurrence rate in 24 h was similar between the groups. Although patients receiving placebo required rescue medication more than the others, metoclopramide and magnesium have an analgesic effect similar to placebo in migraine attacks.

UI  - 15689192
TI  - Sumatriptan causes parallel decrease in plasma calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) concentration and migraine headache during nitroglycerin induced migraine attack.
AB  - Sumatriptan-induced changes in plasma calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) concentration and headache intensity were investigated in 19 female migraineurs during nitroglycerin-induced migraine attack. Sumatriptan nasal spray was administered 120 min after the onset of the attack. Blood samples were obtained immediately before and 60 min after sumatriptan administration. In those subjects whose migraine attack improved considerably 60 min after the treatment the plasma CGRP concentration decreased significantly (P<0.05). In contrast, plasma CGRP concentration failed to change in patients whose headache did not improve. In addition, plasma CGRP concentrations showed significant positive correlations with the headache scores both 60 and 120 min after sumatriptan administration (P<0.05). According to our results plasma CGRP concentration decreases parallel to headache intensity during sumatriptan treatment and this decrease in CGRP predicts effectiveness of antimigraine drug therapy. This supports that one of the main effects of triptans is to decrease CGRP release.

UI  - 15680926
TI  - A randomized controlled trial of an internet-based treatment for chronic headache.
AB  - Chronic headache is a significant public health problem in Western nations. Although controlled trials demonstrate the efficacy and cost-effectiveness of face-to-face behavioral therapy, most headache sufferers have limited access to these treatments. Delivery of behavioral interventions using Internet technology has the potential to reach a larger number of headache sufferers and reduce the burden of disease. This randomized controlled study evaluated an Internet-delivered behavioral regimen composed of progressive relaxation, limited biofeedback with autogenic training, and stress management versus a symptom monitoring waitlist control. Treatment led to a significantly greater decrease in headache activity than symptom monitoring alone. Thirty-nine percent of treated individuals showed clinically significant improvement on self-report measures of headache symptoms at post-treatment. At two-month follow-up, 47% of participants maintained improvement. Treatment had a significant impact on general headache symptoms and headache-related disability. There was a 35% within-group reduction of medication usage among the treated subjects. The Internet program was more time-efficient than traditional clinical treatment. Treatment and follow-up dropout rates, 38.1% and 64.8%, respectively, were typical of behavioral self-help studies. This approach to self-management of headache is promising; however, several methodological and ethical challenges need to be addressed.

UI  - 15679698
TI  - Patient preference for eletriptan 80 mg versus subcutaneous sumatriptan 6 mg: results of a crossover study in patients who have recently used subcutaneous sumatriptan.
AB  - This current randomized, open-label, crossover study evaluated preference for oral eletriptan 80 mg compared with subcutaneous sumatriptan 6 mg (suma-sc) amongst patients (n = 311) meeting IHS criteria for migraine who had recently used suma-sc, and found it well tolerated. Three attacks were treated on each study medication. Assessment of subjective preference was evaluated, after which patients freely chose which study medication they wished to use to treat each of three additional migraine attacks. A slight majority (50.6%) preferred or greatly preferred eletriptan, whilst 43% preferred suma-sc. When permitted to choose between eletriptan and suma-sc for subsequent treatment, 78% of patients who had preferred eletriptan took eletriptan during the extension phase for all three of their attacks, whilst only 37% of patients who preferred suma-sc took suma-sc for all of their extension-phase attacks (P < 0.05). Secondary efficacy measures showed comparable efficacy for each study medication, except for faster headache response and pain-free rates favor of suma-sc, and a significantly lower recurrence rate on eletriptan (25% vs. 40%; P < 0.05). The results of this study suggest that eletriptan is a strong alternative option for patients who have been prescribed suma-sc.

UI  - 15663612
TI  - Comparison of intravenous valproate with intravenous lysine-acetylsalicylic acid in acute migraine attacks.
AB  - Both drugs were effective in acute migraine attacks with a trend in favor of iLAS. As both drugs were well tolerated, further studies with higher doses of iVPA for the treatment of acute migraine attacks are recommended.

UI  - 15663608
TI  - Zolmitriptan nasal spray exhibits good long-term safety and tolerability in migraine: results of the INDEX trial.
AB  - Zolmitriptan 5 mg nasal spray demonstrated a well-tolerated and efficacious profile in the acute treatment of multiple migraine attacks over a 1-year period.

UI  - 15663607
TI  - Zolmitriptan 5 mg nasal spray: efficacy and onset of action in the acute treatment of migraine--results from phase 1 of the REALIZE Study.
AB  - These findings confirm the efficacy demonstrated by zolmitriptan nasal spray in previous clinical trials.

UI  - 15623680
TI  - Petasites hybridus root (butterbur) is an effective preventive treatment for migraine.
AB  - Petasites extract 75 mg bid is more effective than placebo and is well tolerated as a preventive therapy for migraine. Petasites 50 mg PO bid was not significantly more effective than placebo on the primary study endpoints.

UI  - 15613932
TI  - Open-label zonisamide for refractory migraine.
AB  - : These results suggest that zonisamide may be a safe and effective adjunctive agent for migraine prevention. Double-blind studies are warranted to confirm these findings.

UI  - 15613223
TI  - Pharmacokinetics of rizatriptan tablets during and between migraine attacks.
AB  - Gastric stasis during migraine attacks results in delayed absorption of several orally administered antimigraine agents. This study, as part of a larger trial, was conducted to examine the pharmacokinetics of rizatriptan tablets during and between migraine attacks. Participating patients met IHS criteria for migraine with or without aura, and suffered between one and eight migraines per month for the previous 6 months. In part 1 of the study, 21 patients were randomized to receive a single 5-mg tablet of rizatriptan or placebo in the migraine-free state. In part 2, the same patients were treated during migraine with rizatriptan 5-mg tablets (n=18) or placebo (n=3). Blood samples were obtained before dosing and 0.25, 0.5, 0.75, 1, 1.5, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, and 12 hours after dosing. The plasma concentration profile (ie, AUC((0-infinity)), C(max), T(max)) of rizatriptan 5-mg tablets administered during and between migraine attacks were comparable. The median T(max) for rizatriptan between and during attacks was 1 hour, indicating rapid absorption even during a migraine attack. Rizatriptan 5 mg was well tolerated and 67% of the patients experienced headache relief 2 hours postdose.

UI  - 15613205
TI  - Safety and efficacy of combined lysine acetylsalicylate and metoclopramide: repeated intakes in migraine attacks.
AB  - The efficacy of the combination of lysine acetylsalicylate and metoclopramide in the treatment of migraine attacks has been established previously. The value of repeated doses of such a combination has been reported in a recent study. The purposes of this open-label study performed by general practitioners on a very large sample of migraine sufferers were to confirm that repeated doses of the combined treatment are efficient and well-tolerated, and to assess the efficacy of treatment according to the initial headache intensity. Three thousand seven hundred twenty-seven general practitioners entered 7259 migraine sufferers. Patients had to use a first dose, the efficacy of which was assessed 2 hours later. In the case of failure, they were then able to take a second dose and possibly a third dose, 2 hours after the second, in the case of persistent failure. Twelve thousand five hundred sixty-two migraine attacks were analyzed. Tolerance, as assessed by the patients, was considered as good in more than 85% of attacks, whatever the number of doses utilized. Five hundred thirty-five adverse effects were reported after the use of 22,697 sachets. Of 12,515 attacks documented for efficacy, patients considered the treatment as good or excellent in 80% of attacks treated with one dose, 55% of those treated with two doses, and 27% of those treated with three doses. Relief of headache (reduction of its severity from grade 3 or 2 to 1 or 0) was observed in 51% of episodes after the first sachet, 51% of episodes treated with a second sachet, and 56% of episodes treated with a third sachet. The first dose of treatment was found to be more effective when the initial severity of the headache was moderate (improvement in 66% of attacks) than when it was severe (improvement in 30% of attacks). Efficacy appeared to increase according to the number of doses when headache was initially severe. This trial confirms that repeated doses of this combination is well-tolerated and effective. Our results show that repeated doses are particularly useful for severe attacks.

UI  - 15613167
TI  - Comparison of butorphanol nasal spray and fiorinal with codeine in the treatment of migraine.
AB  - Butorphanol tartrate is a synthetic mixed agonist-antagonist opioid analgesic. Its transnasal dosage form, which may be self-administered when the use of an opioid analgesic is appropriate, was previously shown to provide rapid relief of migraine pain. In this double-blind, parallel-group, outpatient study, we compared butorphanol nasal spray 1 mg followed in 1 hour by an optional second 1-mg dose with the orally administered analgesic, Fiorinal with Codeine (one capsule containing butalbital 50 mg, caffeine 40 mg, aspirin 325 mg, and codeine phosphate 30 mg). Patients (N=321) were assigned by randomization to one of two treatment groups (butorphanol or Fiorinal with Codeine) and instructed to self-administer medication when migraine pain reached an intensity of moderate or severe and to record study-related events in a diary for 24 hours posttreatment. Efficacy analyses were performed on data from 275 patients who took study medication and returned a patient diary; 136 in the butorphanol group and 139 in the Fiorinal with Codeine group. During the first 2 hours after treatment, butorphanol was more effective than Fiorinal with Codeine in treating migraine pain as measured by pain intensity difference scores, percentage of responders (pain decreased to mild or none), percentage of pain-free patients, and degree of pain relief, with a more rapid time to onset of 15 minutes. A similar percentage of patients in the two groups used rescue medication during the first 4 hours, after which more butorphanol-treated than Fiorinal with Codeine-treated patients used rescue medication. Butorphanol patients had more side effects, less improvement in digestive symptoms, and less improvement in functional ability than Fiorinal with Codeine patients.

UI  - 15606570
TI  - Octreotide is not effective in the acute treatment of migraine.
AB  - The aim of this study was to determine whether subcutaneous octreotide is effective for the treatment of acute migraine. Patients with migraine with and without aura as classified by the International Headache Society were recruited to a double-blind placebo-controlled crossover study. Patients were instructed to treat two attacks of at least moderate pain severity, with at least a 7 day interval, using subcutaneous 100 microg octreotide or matching placebo. The primary endpoint was the headache response defined as: severe or moderate pain becomes mild or nil, at 2 h. The primary endpoint was analysed using a Multilevel Analysis approach. Secondary end-points included associated symptoms and a four-point functional disability score. The study was powered to detect a 30% difference at an alpha of 0.05 and a beta of 0.8. A total of 51 patients were recruited, of whom 42 provided efficacy data on an attack treated with octreotide and 41 with placebo. Modelling the headache response as a binomial determined by treatment, using the patient as the level 2 variable, and considering a possible period effect, and sex and migraine type as other variables of interest, subcutaneous octreotide was not significantly superior to placebo. The two hour headache response rates were 20% for placebo and 14% for octreotide, whilst the two hour pain free rates were 7% and 2%, respectively. Subcutaneous octreotide 100 microg is not effective in the acute treatment of migraine when compared to placebo.

UI  - 15595715
TI  - The efficacy and safety of dipyrone (Novalgin) tablets in the treatment of acute migraine attacks: a double-blind, cross-over, randomized, placebo-controlled, multi-center study.
AB  - Dipyrone, an effective analgesic drug, is widely used in the management of headache. However, few studies have evaluated its efficacy and safety in migraine. We aimed to assess the efficacy and safety of 1 g dipyrone (Novalgin, two 500 mg tablets) on pain and related symptoms in acute migraine attacks with or without aura in a double-blind, cross-over, randomized, placebo-controlled, multi-center study design. Seventy-three migraine with or without aura patients, diagnosed according to the IHS criteria, were randomized to receive dipyrone (for 2 attacks) and placebo (for 1 attack). Pain intensity was measured on a four-point verbal pain scale before and 1, 2, 4 and 24 hours after drug intake. Significant improvement of pain was achieved with dipyrone compared to placebo at all time points measured. Both patient and physician evaluations were significantly in favor of dipyrone. Side effects were few and trivial in both groups. We conclude that dipyrone is an effective, safe and cost-effective option in acute migraine management.

UI  - 15587768
TI  - Efficacy and tolerability of sumatriptan tablets administered during the mild-pain phase of menstrually associated migraine.
AB  - Two randomised, double-blind, parallel-group, placebo-controlled clinical trials were conducted to assess the efficacy of sumatriptan tablets, 50mg and 100mg, for treatment during the mild-pain phase of a menstrually associated migraine among patients who typically experienced moderate to severe migraine preceded by an identifiable phase of mild pain. Subjects (n = 403 in Study 1 and n = 349 in Study 2) treated one menstrually associated migraine on an outpatient basis. The results demonstrate that sumatriptan tablets, 50 mg or 100 mg, were significantly more effective than placebo at conferring pain-free response 1 h and 2 h post-dose; migraine-free response (i.e. no pain and no associated symptoms) 2 h post-dose; returning patients to normal functioning 2 h post-dose; and conferring sustained freedom from pain from 2 through 24 h post-dose. Although the studies were not designed or statistically powered to show differences between the sumatriptan doses, a trend for slightly higher efficacy was observed for the 100-mg dose compared with the 50-mg dose on many measures. Both doses of sumatriptan were well-tolerated. The only adverse events reported in more than 2% of subjects in a treatment group were nausea, paresthesia, dizziness and malaise/fatigue, all of which were reported at incidences comparable to or slightly higher than those with placebo. Considered in the context of other findings, these data suggest that--with menstrually associated migraine as with non-menstrual migraine--optimal therapeutic benefit of sumatriptan tablets may be realised when they are administered during the mild-pain phase of an attack rather than delaying treatment until headache is moderate or severe.

UI  - 15581383
TI  - Acute treatment of migraine with zolmitriptan 5 mg orally disintegrating tablet.
AB  - A significant headache response as early as 30 minutes post-dose and good maintenance of this headache response at 24 hours makes zolmitriptan 5 mg ODT an excellent acute treatment for migraine. Together with the relatively low adverse event rate, these data demonstrate that zolmitriptan 5 mg ODT is a valuable therapy for migraine sufferers.

UI  - 15579612
TI  - Rofecoxib versus ibuprofen for acute treatment of migraine: a randomised placebo controlled trial.
AB  - Both ibuprofen and rofecoxib were superior to placebo in aborting an acute migraine attack, and there was no significant difference in their efficacy in an acute migraine attack.

UI  - 15566420
TI  - Sumatriptan (5-HT1B/1D-agonist) causes a transient allodynia.
AB  - Unpleasant sensory symptoms are commonly reported in association with the use of 5-HT1B/1D-agonists, i.e. triptans. In particular, pain/pressure symptoms from the chest and neck have restricted the use of triptans in the acute treatment of migraine. The cause of these triptan induced side-effects is still unidentified. We have now tested the hypothesis that sumatriptan influences the perception of tactile and thermal stimuli in humans in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled cross-over study. Two groups were tested; one consisted of 12 (mean age 41.2 years, 10 women) subjects with migraine and a history of cutaneous allodynia in association with sumatriptan treatment. Twelve healthy subjects (mean age 38.7 years, 10 women) without migraine served as control group. During pain- and medication-free intervals tactile directional sensibility, perception of dynamic touch (brush) and thermal sensory and pain thresholds were studied on the dorsal side of the left hand. Measurements were performed before, 20, and 40 min after injection of 6 mg sumatriptan or saline. Twenty minutes after injection, sumatriptan caused a significant placebo-subtracted increase in brush-evoked feeling of unpleasantness in both groups (P < 0.01), an increase in brush-evoked pain in migraineurs only (P = 0.021), a reduction of heat pain threshold in all participants pooled (P = 0.031), and a reduction of cold pain threshold in controls only (P = 0.013). At 40 min after injection, no differences remained significant. There were no changes in ratings of brush intensity, tactile directional sensibility or cold or warm sensation thresholds. Thus, sumatriptan may cause a short-lasting allodynia in response to light dynamic touch and a reduction of heat and cold pain thresholds. This could explain at least some of the temporary sensory side-effects of triptans and warrants consideration in the interpretation of studies on migraine-induced allodynia.

UI  - 15546260
TI  - Assessment of adverse events associated with triptans--methods of assessment influence the results.
AB  - (1) When assessing adverse events, the method of data collection may dramatically influence the results. (2) From those subjects who did not self-report adverse events after using a triptan, most of them will report positively if presented with a list of side effects.

UI  - 15546259
TI  - Long-term tolerability of sumatriptan nasal spray in adolescent patients with migraine.
AB  - Sumatriptan nasal spray 20 mg is generally well tolerated and may be beneficial during long-term use by adolescent migraineurs ages 12 to 17 years.

UI  - 15537478
TI  - Migraine treatment strategies: the global Migraine And Zolmitriptan Evaluation (MAZE) survey--phase IV.
AB  - Medicines that are available OTC are often used as first-line therapy for migraine despite many migraineurs having access to prescription therapies such as triptans. Many migraineurs require a second dose/product, possibly indicating sub-optimal treatment efficacy. Physicians should consider the range of migraine-specific treatments available, including triptans, in order to develop a treatment plan that is based on the patient's needs and preferences.

UI  - 15482357
TI  - Placebo-controlled comparison of effervescent acetylsalicylic acid, sumatriptan and ibuprofen in the treatment of migraine attacks.
AB  - Acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) in combination with metoclopramide has been frequently used in clinical trials in the acute treatment of migraine attacks. Recently the efficacy of a new high buffered formulation of 1000 mg effervescent ASA without metoclopramide compared to placebo has been shown. To further confirm the efficacy of this new formulation in comparison with a triptan and a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (ibuprofen) a three-fold crossover, double-blind, randomized trial with 312 patients was conducted in Germany, Italy and Spain. Effervescent ASA (1000 mg) was compared to encapsulated sumatriptan (50 mg), ibuprofen (400 mg) and placebo. The percentage of patients with reduction in headache severity from moderate or severe to mild or no pain (primary endpoint) was 52.5% for ASA, 60.2% for ibuprofen, 55.8% for sumatriptan and 30.6% for placebo. All active treatments were superior to placebo (P < 0.0001), whereas active treatments were not statistically different. The number of patients who were pain-free at 2 h was 27.1%, 33.2%, 37.1% and 12.6% for those treated with ASA, ibuprofen, sumatriptan or placebo, respectively. The difference between ASA and sumatriptan was statistically significant (P = 0.025). With respect to other secondary efficacy criteria and accompanying symptoms no statistically significant differences between ASA and ibuprofen or sumatriptan were found. Drug-related adverse events were reported in 4.1%, 5.7%, 6.6% and 4.5% of patients treated with ASA, ibuprofen sumatriptan or placebo. This study showed that 1000 mg effervescent ASA is as effective as 50 mg sumatriptan and 400 mg ibuprofen in the treatment of migraine attacks regarding headache relief from moderate/severe to mild/no pain at 2 h. Regarding pain-free at 2 h sumatriptan was most effective.

UI  - 15482353
TI  - Early treatment of a migraine attack while pain is still mild increases the efficacy of sumatriptan.
AB  - To investigate the hypothesis that early treatment of a migraine attack with sumatriptan, while pain is still mild, results in higher pain free rates in comparison to delayed treatment, when pain is at least moderate, we performed a prospective, controlled and open label study. Migraineurs with or without aura who fulfilled the diagnostic criteria recommended by the International Headache Society were enrolled in the study and randomly assigned to either 'early' or 'late' treatment with sumatriptan 100 mg tablets. In the early treatment group significantly more patients were pain free at all times measured during two hours after dosing than in the late treatment group. Furthermore, patients in the early treatment group became pain free significantly sooner after dosing than patients who delayed treatment. It is concluded that migraineurs, who are able to differentiate between a migraine attack and other forms of headache, benefit from early intervention with sumatriptan 100 mg tablets.

UI  - 15482352
TI  - Benefits of treating highly disabled migraine patients with zolmitriptan while pain is mild.
AB  - Clinical trials of migraine therapy often require treatment when migraine pain intensity is moderate or severe, but many physicians find this practice artificial and patients often prefer to treat while pain is mild. This randomized, placebo-controlled study assessed the efficacy of zolmitriptan 2.5 mg in treating migraine while pain is mild, in patients who typically experience migraine attacks that are initially mild, but progress to moderate or severe. The intent-to-treat population comprised 280 patients (138 zolmitriptan; 148 placebo), with mean MIDAS grades of 29.6 (zolmitriptan) and 27.6 (placebo). Zolmitriptan 2.5 mg provided a significantly higher pain-free rate at 2 h (43.4% vs. 18.4% placebo; P < 0.0001). Significantly fewer zolmitriptan patients reported progression of headache pain to moderate or severe intensity 2 h postdose (53.7% vs. 70.4% placebo; P < 0.01), or required further medication within 24 h (46.4% vs. 71.1% placebo; P < 0.0001). The efficacy of zolmitriptan was more pronounced in patients treating during the first 15 min following pain onset. Adverse events were reported in 31.2% of patients treated with zolmitriptan (vs. 11.3% for placebo), and the incidence was lower in patients who treated early after attack onset. Zolmitriptan provides high efficacy when treating migraine while pain is mild, with the clinical benefits being more pronounced when treating early after migraine onset.

UI  - 15469451
TI  - No effect of eletriptan administration during the aura phase of migraine.
AB  - Migraine aura is a warning sign readily recognized by patients. From the onset of aura it takes 30-60 min before the headache phase starts. Administration of acute medication during aura should provide sufficient time to achieve therapeutic plasma levels, counteracting the headache. To test this hypothesis we evaluated the efficacy of eletriptan 80 mg taken during aura. Patients met International Headache Society diagnostic criteria for migraine with aura, with an attack frequency of at least one per month and with aura occurring in > 50% of recent attacks. Of 123 patients randomized, 87 (71%) were treated with a double-blind, one attack, during the aura phase before headache, dose of either eletriptan 80 mg (n = 43; 74% female; mean age, 40 years), or placebo (n = 44; 82% female; mean age, 40 years). The primary outcome measure was the proportion of patients not developing moderate-to-severe headache within 6 h post-dose. There was no significant difference in the proportion of patients developing moderate-to-severe headache on eletriptan (61%) versus placebo (46%). Eletriptan was well tolerated and did not prolong the aura phase. Typical transient triptan adverse events were observed; most were mild-to-moderate in intensity. This study confirms the findings of two studies showing that triptans are ineffective but safe when given during the migraine aura phrase.

UI  - 15447699
TI  - Migraine treatment with rizatriptan and non-triptan usual care medications: a pharmacy-based study.
AB  - Rizatriptan was significantly more effective than non-triptans in the relief of migraine headaches for patients obtaining prescribed migraine medications from a retail pharmacy. Additional studies at other usual care settings may be needed to confirm the findings.

UI  - 15447698
TI  - Rizatriptan 5 mg for the acute treatment of migraine in adolescents: results from a double-blind, single-attack study and two open-label, multiple-attack studies.
AB  - Rizatriptan 5 mg was not more effective than placebo in the treatment of a single migraine attack in adolescents, but appeared to be more effective than standard care for treating multiple attacks occurring over 1 year in these patients. Rizatriptan 5 mg was well tolerated in adolescents during short-term and long-term use.

UI  - 15383196
TI  - Randomized, placebo-controlled comparison of early use of frovatriptan in a migraine attack versus dosing after the headache has become moderate or severe.
AB  - Early use of frovatriptan resulted in a higher, earlier and sustained pain-free response, prevented progression to moderate/severe headache and reduced pain burden and functional disability.

UI  - 15377321
TI  - Efficacy of phenazone in the treatment of acute migraine attacks: a double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized study.
AB  - In this study we compared the efficacy of 1000 mg phenazone with that of placebo in the treatment of acute migraine attacks in a randomized double-blind, placebo-controlled study of 208 patients. The main target criterion was the number of patients with a pain reduction from severe or moderate to slight or no pain 2 h after taking the pain medication. The percentage of patients satisfying the main target criterion was 48.6% for phenazone and 27.2% (P < 0.05) for placebo. Freedom from pain after 2 h was reported by 27.6% with phenazone treatment and 13.6% (P < 0.05) with placebo. Compared with placebo, the phenazone treatment also resulted in a significant improvement in the associated migraine symptoms of nausea, phonophobia and photophobia. Of patients treated with phenazone 11.4%, and 5.8% of those treated with placebo reported adverse events. There was no significant difference between the groups with regard to numbers of patients with adverse events. No serious adverse events occurred. The results show that phenazone at a dosage of 1000 mg is effective and well tolerated in the treatment of acute migraine attacks.

UI  - 15377319
TI  - A double-blind study of SB-220453 (Tonerbasat) in the glyceryltrinitrate (GTN) model of migraine.
AB  - The need for experimental migraine models increases as therapeutic options widen. In the present study, we investigated SB-220453 for efficacy in the glyceryltrinitrate (GTN) human experimental migraine model. SB-220453 is a novel benzopyran compound, which in animal models inhibits neurogenic inflammation, blocks propagation of spreading depression and inhibits trigeminal nerve ganglion stimulation-induced carotid vasodilatation. We included 15 patients with migraine without aura in a randomized double-blind crossover study. SB-220453 40 mg or placebo was followed by a 20-min GTN infusion. Headache, scored 0-10, was registered for 12 h, and fulfillment of International Headache Society (IHS) criteria was recorded until 24 h. Four subjects had a hypotensive episode after SB-220453 plus GTN but none after GTN alone. The reaction was unexpected, since animal models and previous human studies had shown no vascular or sympaticolytic activity with SB-220453. The study was terminated prematurely due to this interaction. GTN was consistent in producing headache and migraine that resembled the patients' usual spontaneous migraine. Nine patients had GTN on both study days. Peak headache score showed a trend towards reduction after SB-220453 compared with placebo (median 4 vs. 7, P = 0.15). However, no reduction was seen in the number of subjects experiencing delayed headache (8 vs. 8), number of subjects reporting migraine (6 vs. 8), migraine attacks fulfilling IHS criteria 1.1 or 1.7 (6 vs. 7) or IHS 1.1 alone (4 vs. 5). SB-220453 had no significant pre-emptive anti-migraine activity compared with placebo in this human model of migraine. Interaction between SB-220453 and GTN was discovered. This is important for the future development of the compound and underlines the usefulness of experimental migraine models.

UI  - 15377314
TI  - Botulinum toxin A in the prophylactic treatment of migraine--a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study.
AB  - Botulinum toxin A has been suggested to be effective in the prophylactic treatment of migraine. However, only very few randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled studies are available. We designed such a study with a specific focus on different injection sites. Sixty patients with a migraine according to the criteria of the International Headache Society were randomly assigned to receive either placebo in the frontal and neck muscles, or to receive 16 U botulinum toxin A in the frontal muscles and placebo in the neck muscles, or to receive in total 100 U botulinum toxin A in the frontal and neck muscles. The observation period was 3 months. In both treatment groups, 30% of patients showed a reduction of migraine frequency in month 3 by at least 50% compared with baseline, in the placebo group 25% of the patients showed such a reduction (P = 0.921). There were no significant differences between the three study groups with respect to reduction of migraine frequency, number of days with migraine, and the number of total single doses to treat a migraine attack. In the post hoc analysis, the reduction of all accompanying symptoms was significantly higher in the 16 U treatment group compared with the placebo group. In the 100 U treatment group significantly more adverse events occurred compared with the placebo group. All adverse events were mild and transient. Our study did not show any efficacy of botulinum toxin A in the prophylactic treatment of migraine. Only accompanying symptoms were significantly reduced in the 16 U but not in the 100 U treatment group. Future studies should focus on the efficacy of botulinum toxin A in specific subgroups of patients, on the efficacy of repetitive injections, and on other injection sites.

UI  - 15372853
TI  - The therapeutic profile of zolmitriptan in clinical practice.
AB  - The efficacy and tolerability of the 5-HT1B/1D-receptor agonist zolmitriptan was evaluated in an open post-marketing surveillance study in 12,919 patients, treating 36,510 migraine attacks. Mean visual analogue scale scores for pain decreased (6.9-2.2; 68% improvement) and scores for impairment of normal activities decreased (6.6-2.2; 67% improvement) at 2 h after dose. Non-headache symptoms of migraine resolved in 73-86% of attacks. Improvement was achieved within 2 h in >80% of attacks and within 1 h in 37% of attacks. This high level of efficacy was achieved with a single 2.5 mg dose in 95% of attacks. Compared with previous migraine treatments, 85% of patients preferred zolmitriptan for efficacy and 56% for better tolerability. Corresponding preference rates were 87 and 63% when compared with ergot alkaloids. Adverse events occurred in 2% of patients and were either typical class effects or known symptoms and complications of migraine. These results provide evidence for the high efficacy and good tolerability of the 2.5 mg dose of zolmitriptan in clinical practice in migraine. Zolmitriptan was very well tolerated, with patients expressing a distinct preference for zolmitriptan over previous treatments.

UI  - 15342617
TI  - Pharmacokinetics of frovatriptan in adolescent migraineurs.
AB  - Frovatriptan is a selective 5-HT(1B/1D) receptor agonist available for acute treatment of migraine in adults (18 years and older). The objective of this study was to determine key pharmacokinetic parameters of frovatriptan in adolescent migraineurs after a single 2.5-mg oral dose and to compare these results with those from an earlier study completed in adults. Subjects were stratified by age (12-14 and 15-17 years) and gender, and serial blood and urine samples were collected over 48 hours. A total of 25 subjects (13 male, 12 female) completed the study. Pharmacokinetic profiles for adolescent subjects were similar to those observed in adults. The median tmax ranged from 2 (male subjects) to 3 (female subjects) hours. The AUC0-24h and Cmax were slightly lower in adolescent subjects as compared with adults. As seen in adults, AUC0-24h and Cmax values were approximately 2-fold higher in females than in their male counterparts (AUC mean range 40.5-59.8 ng x h/mL vs 21.2-23.5 ng x h/mL and Cmax mean range 4.02-6.14 vs ng x h/mL 2.52-2.99 ng/mL, in female and male adolescent subjects, respectively). Elimination was biphasic, with an approximate terminal elimination half-life (t(1/2)) between 12.2 and 25.5 hours. Renal clearance was similar in adolescents and adults, being somewhat higher in female than male subjects. Frovatriptan was well tolerated with no serious or treatment-related adverse effects. In addition, there were no clinically significant changes in safety parameters. Overall, the pharmacokinetic profile of frovatriptan in adolescents (12-17 years) is similar to that seen in adults, and dosing adjustments are unlikely to be needed.

UI  - 15330821
TI  - Oral transmucosal fentanyl citrate for the treatment of migraine headache pain in outpatients: a case series.
AB  - OTFC rapidly and significantly relieved acute, refractory migraine pain in outpatients, prevented the need for an ED visit, and was associated with high patient satisfaction ratings. The rapid onset of migraine headache pain relief in this case series is consistent with the analgesic effect reported with the use of OTFC in patients with BTP. OTFC was well tolerated in these patients who had a history of tolerating parenteral opioids in the ED when experiencing refractory migraine pain and had been treated with outpatient opioid therapies in attempts to manage their migraine pain. OTFC may be effective for outpatient treatment of acute, refractory migraine headache pain. Further controlled studies are warranted.

UI  - 15330820
TI  - Posterior hypothalamic and brainstem activation in hemicrania continua.
AB  - This study demonstrated activations of various subcortical structures, in particular the posterior hypothalamus and the dorsal rostral pons. If posterior hypothalamic and brainstem activation are considered as markers of trigeminal autonomic headaches and migrainous syndromes, respectively, then the activation pattern demonstrated in hemicrania continua mirrors the clinical phenotype, with its overlap with trigeminal autonomic headaches and migraine.

UI  - 15326268
TI  - Melatonin, 3 mg, is effective for migraine prevention.
AB  - 

UI  - 15307520
TI  - [Comparison of the effectiveness of lysine acetylsalicylate and metoclopramide combination with ergotamine plus caffeine in the treatment of migraine attacks].
AB  - Migraine is a common medical condition affecting more than 10% of population in Poland. Acute migraine attacks are often associated with gastrointestinal symptoms ranging from mild nausea to vomiting. The present study was specifically designed to compare the efficacy of the combination of lysine acetylsalicylate and metoclopramide (1620 mg LAS + 10 mg MTC--Migpriv) and ergotamine plus caffeine (2 mg ERG + 200 mg CAF--Coffecorn forte) in the treatment of migraine headache and nausea. 98 patients with migraine meeting HIS criteria were randomized. The primary endpoint was the number of patients having headache relief and no nausea or vomiting two hours after the drug intake. Significantly more Migpriv treated patients than Coffecorn ones were free of headache two hours after drug administration (58.7% vs. 35.7% respectively: p<0.002). Reported adverse events were rare and transient. Migpriv was significantly more effective than Coffecorn forte in relieving the migraine attack symptoms.

UI  - 15304585
TI  - Predicting the response to sumatriptan: the Sumatriptan Naratriptan Aggregate Patient Database.
AB  - Pretreatment pain severity is the most important predicting factor for response to sumatriptan in migraine attacks: the lower baseline severity, the better.

UI  - 15277618
TI  - A randomized trial of frovatriptan for the intermittent prevention of menstrual migraine.
AB  - Frovatriptan given prophylactically for 6 days was effective in reducing the incidence of menstrually associated migraine. More than half of patients who used frovatriptan 2.5 mg BID had no menstrually associated migraine headache during the 6-day perimenstrual period. The findings are consistent with the long duration of action and good tolerability of frovatriptan observed in short-term migraine management.

UI  - 15273854
TI  - [Acute treatment of migraine in emergency room: comparative study between dexametasone and haloperidol. Preliminary results].
AB  - We studied the efficacy of dexamethasone (4 mg) and haloperidol (5 mg) in the treatment of migraine in the emergency room. Twenty nine patients who had diagnosis of migraine according to the International Headache Society criteria and were evaluated for a painful episode at the emergency room of Santa Casa of So Paulo were included. All the patients scored their pain in 10 when evaluated, even after the use of intravenous analgesia (dipyrone). Fourteen patients were treated with haloperidol and the remaining 15 received dexamethasone. The patients were asked about pain intensity at 30, 60, 90 and 120 minutes after the use of either the drugs. Both drugs were equally efficient in pain relief after two hours. Patients who were treated with haloperidol showed an important improvement (more than 50% of improve in the analogic pain scale) in the first 30 minutes. The dexamethasone treated patients only reached this grade of analgesia after 120 minutes. Although we studied a small series of patients, our data suggest that both drugs are efficient in the treatment of a refractory migraine attack. Haloperidol seemed to work quickly in pain relief. No important side effects were observed in neither groups.

UI  - 15265054
TI  - Differences of anti-nociceptive mechanisms of migraine drugs on the trigeminal pain processing during and outside acute migraine attacks.
AB  - The aim of this study was to investigate central anti-nociceptive mechanisms of i.v. acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) and oral zolmitriptan (ZOL) in migraine patients and healthy subjects using the 'nociceptive' blink reflex (nBR). Twenty-eight migraine patients received ASA (n = 14, 1000 mg i.v) or ZOL (n = 14, 5 mg p.o) during the acute migraine attack and interictally. Thirty healthy subjects received either ASA or ZOL vs. placebo using a double blind cross over design. nBR was recorded in all patients and subjects before, 60 and 90 min after treatment. ASA and ZOL did not inhibit nBR responses in healthy subjects. Both ASA and ZOL suppressed nBR responses (ASA by 68%, ZOL by 78%) only during the acute attack but not interictally. The data suggest, that the anti-nociceptive effects of migraine drugs on the trigeminal nociceptive processing are different during and outside an acute migraine attack.

UI  - 15240983
TI  - Efficacy of 1,000 mg effervescent acetylsalicylic acid and sumatriptan in treating associated migraine symptoms.
AB  - Recently a new effervescent acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) tablet with high buffering capacity has been developed. In this double-blind, 3-arm, multicenter, parallel-group study, 433 patients were treated either with 1,000 mg effervescent ASA or 50 mg encapsulated sumatriptan or placebo. The primary endpoint was the percentage of patients with complete remission of the 3 accompanying symptoms nausea, photophobia and phonophobia within 2 h after intake of the study drug. 43.8% of patients treated with ASA, 43.7% of patients treated with sumatriptan and 30.9% of patients treated with placebo showed complete remission of all 3 accompanying symptoms (p < 0.05 for ASA and sumatriptan vs. placebo). Both active treatments were superior to placebo regarding the individual symptoms photophobia and phonophobia, but not for nausea. The percentage of patients with reduction in headache severity from moderate or severe to mild or no pain (secondary objective) was 49.3% for ASA, 48.8% for sumatriptan and 32.9% for placebo. All active treatments were superior to placebo (p < 0.05). 25.3, 24.4 and 14.5% of patients treated with ASA, sumatriptan or placebo were pain free at 2 h. Drug-related adverse events were reported in 3.9, 4.7 and 6.7% of patients treated with placebo, ASA or sumatriptan. The study showed that administration of effervescent ASA leads to remission of the migraine symptoms nausea, photophobia and phonophobia, reduces migraine headache and is comparable to sumatriptan.

UI  - 15222892
TI  - Rizatriptan versus rizatriptan plus rofecoxib versus rizatriptan plus tolfenamic acid in the acute treatment of migraine.
AB  - Despite the methodological limitations of this study, the combination of RI and RO revealed a higher response rate at 2 hours. Recurrence was also clearly decreased with both combinations in relation to the use of RI alone. Controlled studies are necessary to provide additional evidence.

UI  - 15209688
TI  - Early treatment of migraine with rizatriptan: a placebo-controlled study.
AB  - Rizatriptan is significantly more likely than placebo to produce a pain-free response within 2 hours when the drug is administered early in the migraine attack, when pain is mild rather than moderate or severe.

UI  - 15200736
TI  - Pharmacokinetic profile of a new form of sumatriptan tablets in healthy volunteers.
AB  - The new form of sumatriptan is bioequivalent to sumatriptan conventional tablets and is absorbed more quickly than conventional tablets.

UI  - 15196302
TI  - LY293558, a novel AMPA/GluR5 antagonist, is efficacious and well-tolerated in acute migraine.
AB  - Glutamatergic hyperactivity is implicated migraine pathogenesis. Also, LY293558, an alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA)/kainate (KA) receptor antagonist, is effective in preclinical models of migraine. We therefore tested LY293558 in acute migraine. We conducted a randomized, triple-blind, parallel-group, double-dummy, multicentre trial of 1.2 mg/kg intravenous (IV) LY293558, 6 mg subcutaneous (SC) sumatriptan, or placebo in the treatment of acute migraine. The primary efficacy variable was the headache response rate, i.e. headache score improvement from moderate/severe at baseline to mild/none at 2 h. Of 45 enrolled patients, 44 patients (20M:24F; mean age +/- SD = 40 +/- 9 years) completed the study. Response rates were 69% for LY293558 (P = 0.017 vs. placebo), 86% for sumatriptan (P < 0.01 vs. placebo) and 25% for placebo. LY293558 and sumatriptan were superior to placebo (P < 0.01 for all comparisons) on all other measures of improvement in pain and migraine associated symptoms. Fifteen percent of patients who took LY293558 reported adverse events (AEs) (n = 2; one mild, one severe). Fifty-three percent of patients who took sumatriptan (n = 8; seven mild, one moderate) and 31% of those who received placebo reported AEs (n = 5; four mild, one severe). The efficacy and safety results of LY293558 in this small migraine proof of concept trial, together with supportive preclinical data, provide evidence for a potential role of nonvasoactive AMPA/KA antagonists in treating migraine. Larger trials are needed to further test the hypothesis.

UI  - 15196300
TI  - The prophylactic effect of valproate on glyceryltrinitrate induced migraine.
AB  - In this study the human glyceryltrinitrate (GTN) model of migraine was for the first time used to test the effect of a prophylactic drug. We chose to test valproate due to its well documented effect as a migraine prophylactic drug. Efficacy of this compound would support the usefulness of the model in prophylactic antimigraine drug development. Twelve patients with migraine without aura were included in a randomized double blind crossover study. Valproate 1000 mg or placebo was given daily, each for a minimum of 13 days. On the last treatment day of each arm a 20 min intravenous infusion of GTN (0.25 microg/kg/min) was given. Headache was registered for 12 h after the infusion and headache intensity was scored on a scale from 0 to 10. Fulfillment of IHS criteria was recorded for 24 h. The middle cerebral arteries were evaluated by transcranial Doppler and the diameter of the superficial temporal and radial arteries were measured with high frequency ultrasound. GTN evoked migraine fulfilling IHS criteria 1.1 in 6 patients after placebo and in 2 patients after valproate (P = 0.125). Including additionally 3 patients on placebo and 1 patient on valproate who felt they had suffered a migraine attack, but who had as associated symptoms only photophobia or phonophobia, a significant reduction in the number of patients with induced migraine after valproate was seen (P = 0.031). Median peak headache intensity was 1 (range 0-9) after valproate compared to 4.5 (range 0-8) after placebo (P = 0.120). Pretreatment with valproate as compared to placebo reduced the velocity in both middle cerebral arteries after GTN (left P = 0.021, right P = 0.031). No effect of valproate was seen in the diameter of the superficial temporal artery (P = 0.781) or the radial artery (P = 0.367) before or after GTN. The study indicates that a prophylactic effect of valproate may be demonstrated using the GTN human migraine model. Although, all headache parameters were reduced after valproate compared to placebo, only one parameter was statistically significantly reduced probably because of the small number of patients. The size of the effect was similar to that of valproate in clinical trials. The GTN model may therefore be a valid tool for testing new prophylactic antimigraine drugs.

UI  - 15196296
TI  - Comparison of rizatriptan 5 mg and 10 mg tablets and sumatriptan 25 mg and 50 mg tablets.
AB  - This randomized, double-blind, two-attack, placebo-controlled, crossover study explored the efficacy and tolerability of rizatriptan 10 mg compared with sumatriptan 50 mg as well as rizatriptan 5 mg compared with sumatriptan 25 mg in the acute treatment of migraine. Following randomization to one of six possible treatment sequences, patients (n = 1447) treated two sequential attacks, of moderate or severe intensity, separated by at least 5 days. Patients assessed pain severity, migraine-associated symptoms, and functional disability at 0.5, 1, 1.5, and 2 h post treatment. Compared with placebo, all treatments were effective. On the primary endpoint of time to pain relief, rizatriptan 10 mg was not statistically different from sumatriptan 50 mg [odds ratio (OR) 1.10, P = 0.161], and rizatriptan 5 mg was statistically superior to sumatriptan 25 mg (OR 1.22, P = 0.007). In general, rizatriptan 10 mg and 5 mg treatment resulted in improvement compared with the corresponding doses of sumatriptan on measures of pain severity, migraine symptoms, and functional disability and the 5-mg dose reached statistical significance on almost all measures. All treatments were generally well tolerated.

UI  - 15159464
TI  - Use of narcotic analgesics in the emergency department treatment of migraine headache.
AB  - Acute migraine management in these EDs does not meet current consensus guidelines. Factors associated with narcotic use are predictable, and a concerted effort to replace narcotics with more evidence-based first-line treatments is needed.

UI  - 15150709
TI  - [Influence of botulinum toxin treatment on previous primary headaches in patients with cranio-cervical dystonia].
AB  - BT-A seems to have sustained beneficial effect on primary headaches of some patients with CD, especially at doses higher than 50 U and in patients with the diagnosis of spasmodic torticollis.

UI  - 15147247
TI  - Frovatriptan use in migraineurs with or at high risk of coronary artery disease.
AB  - In this exploratory study of migraineurs with, or at high risk of, coronary artery disease, frovatriptan 2.5 mg was well tolerated and not associated with an increase in cardiovascular monitoring abnormalities.

UI  - 15147246
TI  - A thromboembolic predisposition and the effect of anticoagulants on migraine.
AB  - Our findings support the hypothesis that migraine, as a phenotype, has different underlying mechanisms, amongst which a thromboembolic tendency. In this group of patients, oral anticoagulants may be a suitable form of migraine prophylaxis, but this needs further clinical investigation.

UI  - 15147077
TI  - ["STRESSEN" in the treatment of psycho-physical stress and hyperhomocysteinemia in patients with migraine without aura].
AB  - This study supported the effectiveness of STRESSEN treatment to restore physiological profile of homocysteinemia and to improve the psycho-physical conditions, usually altered by stress for which the drug is already indicated.

UI  - 15143727
TI  - [Effect of yangxue qingnao granule on microcirculation and cerebral blood flow in patients with migraine].
AB  - 

UI  - 15136680
TI  - Randomized, placebo-controlled trial of rofecoxib in the acute treatment of migraine.
AB  - Rofecoxib 25 and 50 mg were effective and generally well tolerated for the acute treatment of migraine attacks.

UI  - 15109355
TI  - Almotriptan improves response rates when treatment is within 1 hour of migraine onset.
AB  - Initiation of treatment with almotriptan 12.5 mg within the first hour after acute migraine onset resulted in a significantly higher sustained pain-free response compared with placebo. There was no significant difference in sustained pain-free rates between sumatriptan and placebo. These results are consistent with those from a previous open-label trial, and suggest that early intervention with almotriptan can improve clinical outcome.
