
UI  - 24745698
TI  - Outcomes of adrenal-sparing surgery or total adrenalectomy in phaeochromocytoma associated with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2: an international retrospective population-based study.
AB  - The treatment of multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2-related phaeochromocytoma continues to rely on adrenalectomies with their associated Addisonian-like complications and consequent lifelong dependency on steroids. Adrenal-sparing surgery, a highly successful treatment option in experienced centres, should be the surgical approach of choice to reduce these complications.

UI  - 24497497
TI  - Seasonal variation in plasma free normetanephrine concentrations: implications for biochemical diagnosis of pheochromocytoma.
AB  - The plasma concentrations of normetanephrine are subject to seasonal variation with a resulting higher prevalence of false-positive results in winter than in summer. Lowered plasma concentrations of normetanephrine with forearm warming suggest an effect of temperature. These results have implications for considerations of temperature to minimize false-positive results.

UI  - 24279337
TI  - Preoperative workup in the assessment of adrenal incidentalomas: outcome from 282 consecutive laparoscopic adrenalectomies.
AB  - This surgical series confirm the high efficacy of suggested guidelines. A significant preoperative detection rate of adrenal lesions presenting as incidentaloma is observed. The unnecessary number of adrenalectomies performed in understudied patients, causing higher morbidity, was not associated to a higher detection rate of primary adrenocortical cancer.

UI  - 24165257
TI  - Role of preoperative adrenergic blockade with doxazosin on hemodynamic control during the surgical treatment of pheochromocytoma: a retrospective study of 48 cases.
AB  - Authors evaluated the effects of selective adrenergic blockade by means of doxazosin on blood pressure in 48 patients operated on for pheochromocytoma by a multicenter retrospective study. Age, tumor size, surgical approach, and operative time were analyzed as predictive factors of intraoperative hypertensive crises. Forty-eight patients underwent adrenalectomy--four open surgery and 44 laparoscopic surgery--for pheochromocytoma of adrenal glands from 1998 to 2008 after preoperative administration of doxazosin. Perioperative cardiovascular status modifications and surgical medium- and long-term outcomes were analyzed. There was no mortality, conversion rate was 4.5 per cent, and morbidity rate was 8.3 per cent. Intraoperative hypertensive crises (180/90 mmHg or higher) were observed in 14.5 per cent (seven of 48) of patients and were treated pharmacologically with no aftermath. None of the examined variables influenced the occurrence of intraoperative hypertensive episodes. Postoperative hypotension (lower than 90/60 mmHg) was observed in four of 48 patients (8.3%) and was treated by crystalloids and hydrocortisone. In the surgical treatment of pheochromocytoma, the preoperative adrenergic blockade by doxazosin does not prevent intraoperative hypertensive crises. Nevertheless, in our series, they were of short duration and were not associated with major cardiovascular complications. Perioperative hemodynamic instability was managed by preoperative pharmacological treatment, allowing low morbidity.

UI  - 24009136
TI  - Targeting dopamine receptors subtype 2 (D2DR) in pheochromocytomas: head-to-head comparison between in vitro and in vivo findings.
AB  - These results suggest that I-IBZM is not a useful radiopharmaceutical in the detection and characterization of PHEOs despite D2DR expression. Our findings and data from the related literature may support different hypotheses to explain the failure of D2DR targeting by I-IBZM.

UI  - 23859530
TI  - Effect of early adrenal vein ligation on blood pressure and catecholeamine fluctuation during laparoscopic adrenalectomy for pheochromocytoma.
AB  - This study demonstrated that previous control of the adrenal vein was not a determinate factor in dealing with dangerous hypertension during laparoscopic adrenalectomies.

UI  - 23581419
TI  - Analysis of pheochromocytomas / paragangliomas from Eastern Slovakia.
AB  - This multi centre observational cohort study gives a view about the occurrence, clinical and laboratory presentation, localization, histological type and genetic background of pheochromocytoma (PHEO) and paraganglioma (PGL) in Eastern Slovakia. It included 28 patients (18 women + 10 men), of which 23 were diagnosed to have PHEO (82,1%) and 7 patients (25%) suffered from PGL with retroperitoneal, inguinal/pelvic and mediastinal distribution. Arterial hypertension was the major symptom present in 86 % with slight dominance of paroxysmal form (58%). In 3 cases (10,7%), the diagnosis was gained after differentiation of adrenal incidentaloma in asymptomatic patients. Five patients (17,8%) were classified to have malignant form of the disease. 9 patients (32,1%) were confirmed to have hereditary form - five of them (17,8%) with familiar medullar thyroid cancer (FMTC) and mutations in RET gene classified as multiple endocrine neoplasia 2A and 4 patients (14,3%) with germline mutations of SDHB gene, respectively. There was found a relatively high occurrence of other co-morbidities: thyroid disease in 20 patients (71,4%), impairment of glucose metabolism in 11 patients (39,3%) and apart from FMTC, 4 patients (14,3%) suffered also from other malignancy. Together with a bigger size of the primary tumor (6,6 cm), higher concentrations of metanephrines and prevalence of extra-adrenal tumors, malignant and hereditary forms, we suppose genetic and environmental factors of Eastern Slovakia may play a role in the etiopathogenesis of the tumors.

UI  - 23489186
TI  - Pheochromocytoma and markers of oxidative stress.
AB  - High levels of catecholamines in pheochromocytoma (PHEO) are associated with risk of cardiovascular complications. In this study, we looked for potential differences in markers of oxidative stress - vitamin C, superoxide dismutase (SOD) and malondialdehyde (MDA) in PHEO before and after the operation. We studied 18 subjects with PHEO who were examined before and approximately one year after the successful tumor removal (free of disease). All subjects had elevated urinary epinephrine and/or norepinephrine levels before the operation. Vitamin C levels increased significantly after the operation from 61+/-27 to 77+/-20 micromol/l (P=0.02), and MDA decreased significantly after the tumor removal from 2.6+/-0.4 to 2.0+/-0.6 micromol/l (P=0.01). However, no changes were found in SOD activity before and after the operation. In conclusion, increased catecholamine production in PHEO is accompanied by decreased levels of vitamin C and increased levels of MDA which may indicate the activation of oxidative stress in PHEO. Successful operation was associated with lowering of oxidative stress by using both biomarkers. On the contrary, no changes in SOD activity before and after the tumor removal were noted.

UI  - 23436923
TI  - Changes in energy metabolism in pheochromocytoma.
AB  - Chronic catecholamine overproduction in pheochromocytoma may lead to a proinflammatory and hypermetabolic state characterized by increased REE. Adrenalectomy leads to the normalization of energy metabolism followed by an increase in body mass index and body fat content and decreases in inflammatory markers and cytokines.

UI  - 23407919
TI  - Mutation screening in a Norwegian cohort with pheochromocytoma.
AB  - Pheochromocytomas (PHEOs) are neuroendocrine tumours, originating from chromaffin cells in the adrenal medulla. They are either sporadic or hereditary. It is important to identify the hereditary cases, so that patients and relatives with germline mutations can be offered regular surveillance. The objective of this study was the detection of pathogenic germline mutations in a cohort of Norwegian PHEO patients. Blood samples and/or formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue specimens, were collected from 60 patients who were operated upon between 1986 and 2004 at two university hospitals in Norway. DNA mutation analyses were performed successfully in the 42 blood samples and in one of the paraffin-embedded tissue specimen in VHL, RET, SDHB, SDHC, SDHD and NF1. In all, 32 different DNA variants were observed, of which 8 were classified as pathogenic (19 %), or possibly pathogenic; three in NF1, two in RET and VHL and one in SDHB. Two variants were observed in one patient, one in SDHB and one in NF1. Three of these variants are, to the best of our knowledge, new ones; two in NF1 [c.950_51insGCTGA, (p.Glu318LeufsX59) and c.1588G > A, (p.Val530Ile)] and one in VHL (c.308C > T, p.Pro103Leu). In conclusion the overall incidence of germline mutations in genes associated with familial PHEO was found to be of the same order of magnitude in the present Norwegian series as in those from other countries. Two new NF1 variants and one new VHL gene variant were detected.

UI  - 23404627
TI  - A multi-histology trial of fostamatinib in patients with advanced colorectal, non-small cell lung, head and neck, thyroid, and renal cell carcinomas, and pheochromocytomas.
AB  - Fostamatinib had limited anti-tumor activity in this first clinical trial in patients with advanced refractory solid tumors; reduction in CECs and CEPs was indicative of anti-angiogenic effects. Abnormal liver testing at baseline appeared to influence drug tolerability.

UI  - 23267853
TI  - Laparoscopic adrenalectomy, a safe procedure for pheochromocytoma. A retrospective review of clinical series.
AB  - As a surgical treatment of pheochromocytomas, laparoscopic adrenalectomy is an effective and safe approach, in selected cases even for PCCs >6cm in diameter, although patients with such large tumors may have a higher conversion rate and more intraoperative hypertensive crises. Preoperative selective adrenergic blockade does not prevent intraoperative hypertensive crises, but by facilitating the pharmacological management of the perioperative haemodynamic instability, may avoid the onset of major adverse cardiovascular complications.

UI  - 23230826
TI  - Functional characterization of nonmetastatic paraganglioma and pheochromocytoma by (18) F-FDOPA PET: focus on missed lesions.
AB  - (18) F-FDOPA PET appears to be a very sensitive functional imaging tool for HNPGL regardless of the genetic status of the tumours. Patients with false-negative tumours on (18) F-FDOPA PET should be tested for SDHx mutations.

UI  - 23162105
TI  - Imaging work-up for screening of paraganglioma and pheochromocytoma in SDHx mutation carriers: a multicenter prospective study from the PGL.EVA Investigators.
AB  - In routine practice, the imaging work-up for screening SDHx mutation carriers should include thoraco-abdomino-pelvic computed tomography, head and neck magnetic angiography, and somatostatin receptor scintigraphy. Expert centralized image assessment is recommended.

UI  - 22798018
TI  - The washout rate on the delayed CT image as a diagnostic tool for adrenal adenoma verified by pathology: a multicenter study.
AB  - Regardless of various CT machines and protocols, a washout rate of 15-min-delayed CT was most useful in the diagnosis of adrenal adenomas due to the early inflow and outflow of contrast media in the tissues of adrenal adenomas.

UI  - 22736481
TI  - Phase 2 study of everolimus monotherapy in patients with nonfunctioning neuroendocrine tumors or pheochromocytomas/paragangliomas.
AB  - Everolimus was associated with high therapeutic efficacy and tolerability in patients with nonfunctioning NETs, and demonstrated modest efficacy in patients with pheochromocytomas/paragangliomas.

UI  - 22569243
TI  - Monoamine oxidase A down-regulation contributes to high metanephrine concentration in pheochromocytoma.
AB  - High concentrations of MN in tumor do not only arise from CAT overproduction but also from low MAOA expression, resulting in higher substrate availability for COMT.

UI  - 22362045
TI  - Ectopic hormone-secreting pheochromocytoma: a francophone observational study.
AB  - Most pheochromocytomas with ectopic secretion are neither malignant nor familial. Most ectopic hormone-secreting pheochromocytoma cause hypercortisolemia. Patients with a pheochromocytoma should be worked up for ectopic hormones, because removal of the pheochromocytoma resolves those symptoms. Associated cortisol secretion needs careful attention.

UI  - 22168573
TI  - Transumbilical approach for laparo-endoscopic single-site adrenalectomy: initial experience and short-term outcome.
AB  - A transumbilical approach for laparo-endoscopic single-site adrenalectomy is safe and feasible, and it results in superior cosmesis. Improvements in surgical devices might facilitate further development of this approach.

UI  - 22007839
TI  - Transurethral partial cystectomy with 2m thulium continuous wave laser in the treatment of bladder pheochromocytoma.
AB  - To our knowledge, this is the first report of a 2013 nm thulium laser used to treat bladder pheochromocytoma. It can be applied to precisely vaporize and incise the full-thickness bladder wall and cut down the blood supply of the tumor, then peel it while blood pressure remains stable, thus completing partial cystectomy for bladder pheochromocytoma safely.

UI  - 21681621
TI  - Complications in laparoscopic adrenalectomy: the value of experience.
AB  - The main risk factors for the occurrence of complications during laparoscopic adrenalectomy appear to be surgical inexperience, age, and body mass index of the patient, the dimension of the mass, and pheochromocytoma. Therefore, laparoscopic adrenalectomy, especially for tumors that are potentially more complicated, should only be undertaken in high-volume specialist centers by surgeons with the appropriate training and experience.

UI  - 21264798
TI  - The effect of exogenous glucocorticoids on plasma catecholamines and metanephrines in patients without phaeochromocytomas.
AB  - The aim of the study was to evaluate the effects of steroid administration under standardised conditions in a range of patients both normal and with adrenal pathologies and to review the impact on plasma catecholamines and metanephrines. Corticosteroid administration has been linked to the development of hypertensive crises in patients with phaeochromocytoma, however a mechanism for this is not fully understood. We aimed to add useful information about the effect of steroids on levels of these hormones under usual circumstances. A prospective, observational cohort study of 50 patients undergoing the low-dose dexamethasone suppression test (LDDST) was undertaken. Additional blood samples were taken at the start and end of the standard LDDST. Biochemical analysis was carried out for plasma catecholamines and plasma free metanephrines. Demographic and hormonal data were acquired from review of the notes or measured at baseline. No significant changes in plasma catecholamines or metanephrines were seen at the end of the LDDST compared to baseline. This was also true of subgroup analysis, divided by age, gender, or type of underlying pathology. Our results suggest that hypertensive reaction responses, rare as they are, are unlikely to be related to normal adrenal physiology. Thus LDDST is likely to be safe under most circumstances, however caution should be exercised in patients with adrenal masses with imaging characteristics compatible with phaeochromocytoma. It may be prudent to defer glucocorticoid administration until functioning phaeochromocytoma has been excluded biochemically.

UI  - 21262951
TI  - Measurements of plasma methoxytyramine, normetanephrine, and metanephrine as discriminators of different hereditary forms of pheochromocytoma.
AB  - The distinct patterns of plasma catecholamine O-methylated metabolites in patients with hereditary pheochromocytoma provide an easily used tool to guide cost-effective genotyping of underlying disease-causing mutations.

UI  - 21147885
TI  - Age at diagnosis of pheochromocytoma differs according to catecholamine phenotype and tumor location.
AB  - The variations in ages at diagnosis associated with different tumor catecholamine phenotypes and locations suggest origins of PPGLs from different chromaffin progenitor cells with variable susceptibility to disease causing mutations. Different optimal age cut-offs for mutation testing are indicated for patients with and without epinephrine-producing tumors (44-49 vs. 30-35 yr, respectively).

UI  - 21051559
TI  - Catecholamine metabolomic and secretory phenotypes in phaeochromocytoma.
AB  - Phaeochromocytomas and paragangliomas (PPGLs) are highly heterogeneous tumours with variable catecholamine biochemical phenotypes and diverse hereditary backgrounds. This analysis of 18 catecholamine-related plasma and urinary biomarkers in 365 patients with PPGLs and 846 subjects without PPGLs examined how catecholamine metabolomic profiles are impacted by hereditary background and relate to variable hormone secretion. Catecholamine secretion was assessed in a subgroup of 156 patients from whom tumour tissue was available for measurements of catecholamine contents. Among all analytes, the free catecholamine O-methylated metabolites measured in plasma showed the largest tumour-related increases relative to the reference group. Patients with tumours due to multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2 and neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) showed similar catecholamine metabolite and secretory profiles to patients with adrenaline-producing tumours and no evident hereditary background. Tumours from these three patient groups contained higher contents of catecholamines, but secreted the hormones at lower rates than tumours that did not contain appreciable adrenaline, the latter including PPGLs due to von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) and succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) gene mutations. Large increases of plasma dopamine and its metabolites additionally characterised patients with PPGLs due to the latter mutations, whereas patients with NF1 were characterised by large increases in plasma dihydroxyphenylglycol and dihydroxyphenylacetic acid, the deaminated metabolites of noradrenaline and dopamine. This analysis establishes the utility of comprehensive catecholamine metabolite profiling for characterising the distinct and highly diverse catecholamine metabolomic and secretory phenotypes among different groups of patients with PPGLs. The data further suggest developmental origins of PPGLs from different populations of chromaffin cell progenitors.

UI  - 21046486
TI  - Selective 1-adrenoceptor antagonist (controlled release tablets) in preoperative management of pheochromocytoma.
AB  - The objective of this article is to evaluate the efficacy of Doxazosin Mesylate Controlled Release Tablets for preoperative treatment of patients with pheochromocytoma. Between 2003 and 2008, 67 patients with confirmed diagnoses of pheochromocytoma were enrolled in this study. According to the drug used in preoperative management, patients were divided into two groups: Doxazosin Mesylate pretreatment group (n=36) and Phenoxybenzamine pretreatment group (n=31). Surgery was performed only in patients who met the optimal preoperative condition. The hematocrit decreased significantly (P<0.001) after antiadrenergic therapy in patients pretreated with phenoxybenzamine or doxazosin. There was no significant difference between the fluid intakes during operation in both groups. The systolic arterial pressures both before and after induction of anesthesia were all significantly higher in the doxazosin patients than in the phenoxybenzamine group (P<0.05). After tumor removed, the lowest systolic arterial pressure was significantly higher in doxazosin group than in phenoxybenzamine group (P<0.05). The fluctuation of systolic arterial pressure during operation was more stable in doxazosin group than in phenoxybenzamine group (P<0.05). Doxazosin mesylate controlled release tablet was as effective as phenoxybenzamine in preoperative volume expansion. Although phenoxybenzamine provided better arterial pressure control, patients pretreated with DOX experienced more stable perioperative hemodynamic changes, shorter preoperative management periods and more simple medication.

UI  - 20554711
TI  - The clinical spectrum of multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2a caused by the rare intracellular RET mutation S891A.
AB  - This intracellular mutation can initiate the full spectrum of MEN2a, initiates MTC at an early age, and causes recurrence and death if undertreated. We recommend stringent adherence to established guidance in MEN2a in this rare mutation.

UI  - 20546874
TI  - Comparison of two preoperative medical management strategies for laparoscopic resection of pheochromocytoma.
AB  - Differences in the preoperative preparation and intraoperative management were associated with differences in intraoperative hemodynamics but not with clinically significant outcomes in patients undergoing laparoscopic adrenalectomy for pheochromocytoma at 2 large tertiary care centers.

UI  - 20491593
TI  - Robot-assisted adrenal-sparing surgery for pheochromocytoma: initial experience.
AB  - Robot-assisted excision of pheochromocytoma is feasible, safe, and efficacious in our early experience. Sparing of the normal adjacent adrenal parenchyma is possible with little detrimental effect on the oncologic efficacy of the surgery. Long-term studies are needed to further confirm this issue.

UI  - 20479567
TI  - Clinically silent chromaffin-cell tumors: Tumor characteristics and long-term prognosis in patients with incidentally discovered pheochromocytomas.
AB  - Clinically silent CCT are more prevalent than previously reported. With an adequate pre-surgical diagnosis and patient preparation, the prognosis of silent tumors is usually excellent.

UI  - 20071235
TI  - SDHAF2 mutations in familial and sporadic paraganglioma and phaeochromocytoma.
AB  - Dutch Cancer Society, European Union 6th Framework Program, Fondo Investigaciones Sanitarias, Fundacin Mutua Madrilea, and Red Temtica de Investigacin Cooperativa en Cncer.

UI  - 20039892
TI  - Influence of various confounding variables and storage conditions on metanephrine and normetanephrine levels in plasma.
AB  - Physical exercise may lead to relevant changes in metanephrine and normetanephrine and should therefore be avoided prior to sampling. Although effects of age, sex and BMI were small, these variables should be considered when interpreting biochemical results. Blood should be taken in the supine position, and samples should be immediately centrifuged and stored at 4 degrees C to improve stability.

UI  - 19949879
TI  - The utility of metaiodobenzylguanidine single photon emission computed tomography/computed tomography (MIBG SPECT/CT) for the diagnosis of pheochromocytoma.
AB  - MIBG SPECT/CT fusion imaging is a sensitive and specific radiological imaging tool for patients suspected to have pheochromocytoma. The particular strengths of MIBG SPECT/CT are detection of local recurrence, small extra-adrenal pheochromocytomas, multifocal tumors, or the presence of metastatic disease.

UI  - 19897672
TI  - Low sensitivity of glucagon provocative testing for diagnosis of pheochromocytoma.
AB  - The glucagon stimulation test offers insufficient diagnostic sensitivity for reliable exclusion or confirmation of pheochromocytoma. Because of this and the risk of hypertensive complications, the test should be abandoned in routine clinical practice.

UI  - 19875067
TI  - Radiofrequency ablation of metastatic pheochromocytoma.
AB  - In the present report on the preliminary safety and effectiveness of radiofrequency (RF) ablation for pheochromocytoma metastases, seven metastases were treated in six patients (mean size, 3.4 cm; range, 2.2-6 cm). alpha- and beta-adrenergic and catecholamine synthesis inhibition and intraprocedural anesthesia monitoring were used. Safety was assessed by recording ablation-related complications. Complete ablation was defined as a lack of enhancement within the ablation zone on follow-up computed tomography. No serious adverse sequelae were observed. Complete ablation was achieved in six of seven metastases (mean follow-up, 12.3 months; range, 2.5-28 months). In conclusion, RF ablation may be safely performed for metastatic pheochromocytoma given careful attention to peri-procedural management.

UI  - 19704370
TI  - Low-dose iodine-131 metaiodobenzylguanidine therapy for patients with malignant pheochromocytoma and paraganglioma: single center experience.
AB  - The following is a report on the clinical experience of an Israeli referral center for iodine-131 metaiodobenzylguanidine (131-MIBG) therapy for malignant pheochromocytoma (MPCC) and malignant paraganglioma (MPGG). The charts of 10 patients with MPCC (n = 7) and MPGG (n = 3) treated between 2000 and 2008 were reviewed. Response to 131-MIBG therapy was evaluated by tumor, hormone, and symptomatic relief criteria. The median follow-up was 18 months (2-48 months). The number of 131-MIBG treatments ranged from 1 to 4 (mean: 2.1). The average single dose of 131-MIBG was 5.4 +/- 0.2 GBq (145 +/- 5.0 mCi). The average cumulative dose was 11.6 +/- 1.6 GBq (310 +/- 44.0 mCi). There were no complete responses. Three patients (30%) had partial tumor response, 5 (50%) had stable disease, and 2 (20%) progressed after therapy. Five patients (50%) experienced symptomatic response. Hormone response was noted in 5 patients (50%). Progression-free survival was 17.5 months (2-47 months). One patient (10%) had thrombocytopenia and 2 patients (20%) developed subclinical hypothyroidism. Hormonal and symptomatic relief can be achieved with 131-MIBG therapy in patients with MPCC and MPGG with minor side effects.

UI  - 19694582
TI  - Radiation dosimetry, pharmacokinetics, and safety of ultratrace Iobenguane I-131 in patients with malignant pheochromocytoma/paraganglioma or metastatic carcinoid.
AB  - This is a first of many phase 1 study of Ultratrace Iobenguane I-131 (Ultratrace 131I-MIBG; Molecular Insight Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Cambridge, MA). High-specific-activity Ultratrace 131I-MIBG may provide improved efficacy and tolerability over carrier-added 131I-MIBG. We investigated the pharmacokinetics (PK), radiation dosimetry, and clinical safety in 11 patients with confirmed pheochromocytoma/paraganglioma (Pheo) or carcinoid tumors. A single 5.0-mCi (185 MBq) injection of Ultratrace 131I-MIBG, supplemented with 185 microg of unlabeled MIBG to simulate the amount of MIBG anticipated in a therapeutic dose, was administered. Over 120 hours postdose, blood and urine were collected for PK, and sequential whole-body planar imaging was performed. Patients were followed for adverse events for 2 weeks. Ultratrace 131I-MIBG is rapidly cleared from the blood and excreted in urine (80.3% +/- 2.8% of dose at 120 hours). For a therapeutic administration of 500 mCi (18.5 GBq), our estimate of the projected dose is 1.4 Gy for marrow and 10.4 Gy for kidneys. Safety results showed 12 mild adverse events, all considered unrelated to study drug, in 8 of 11 patients. These findings support the further development of Ultratrace 131I-MIBG for the treatment of neuroendocrine tumors, such as metastatic Pheo and carcinoid.

UI  - 19690028
TI  - Usefulness of 123I-MIBG scintigraphy in the evaluation of patients with known or suspected primary or metastatic pheochromocytoma or paraganglioma: results from a prospective multicenter trial.
AB  - This prospective study demonstrated a sensitivity of 82%-88% and specificity of 82%-84% for (123)I-MIBG imaging used in the diagnostic assessment of primary or metastatic pheochromocytoma or paraganglioma.

UI  - 19636009
TI  - Phase II study of high-dose [131I]metaiodobenzylguanidine therapy for patients with metastatic pheochromocytoma and paraganglioma.
AB  - Although serious toxicity may occur, the survival and response rates achieved with high-dose [(131)I]MIBG suggest its utility in the management of selected patients with metastatic PHEO and PGL.

UI  - 19576851
TI  - An immunohistochemical procedure to detect patients with paraganglioma and phaeochromocytoma with germline SDHB, SDHC, or SDHD gene mutations: a retrospective and prospective analysis.
AB  - The Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research, Dutch Cancer Society, Vanderes Foundation, Association pour la Recherche contre le Cancer, Institut National de la Sant et de la Recherche Mdicale, and a PHRC grant COMETE 3 for the COMETE network.

UI  - 19497985
TI  - Frequent incidental discovery of phaeochromocytoma: data from a German cohort of 201 phaeochromocytoma.
AB  - Owing to better availability and accessibility of imaging procedures, the number of incidentally discovered phaeochromocytoma is increasing and reaches nearly 30% in our study population. Every adrenal incidentaloma should be investigated for the presence of phaeochromocytoma.

UI  - 19445649
TI  - Proficiency test of plasma free and total metanephrines: report from a study group.
AB  - 

UI  - 19383804
TI  - Evaluation of an enzyme immunoassay for plasma-free metanephrines in the diagnosis of catecholamine-secreting tumors.
AB  - Plasma-free metanephrines measured by EIA have better diagnostic test characteristics than urinary catecholamines in the diagnosis of pheochromocytoma. The EIA offers a simple and effective measurement of plasma-free metanephrines.

UI  - 19289533
TI  - Pheochromocytomas and extra-adrenal paragangliomas detected by screening in patients with SDHD-associated head-and-neck paragangliomas.
AB  - Patients with SDHD-associated head-and-neck paragangliomas (HNP) are at risk for developing pheochromocytomas for which screening has been advised. To assess clinical, biochemical, and radiological outcomes of screening in a large single-center cohort of SDHD-positive patients with HNP and to address the necessity for repetitive follow-up, we evaluated 93 patients with SDHD-associated HNP (p.Asp92Tyr, p.Leu139Pro). Screening consisted of measurement of 24 h urinary excretion of catecholamines and/or their metabolites in duplicate, which was repeated with intervals of 2 years if initial biochemical screening was negative. In patients, in whom urinary excretion was above the reference limit, imaging studies with (123)I-MIBG (metaiodobenzylguanidine) scintigraphy and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and/or computed tomography (CT) were performed. Pheochromocytomas and extra-adrenal paragangliomas were treated surgically after appropriate blockade. Median follow-up was 4.5 years (range 0.5-19.5 years). Twenty-eight out of the 93 patients were included in our study and underwent additional imaging for pheochromocytomas/extra-adrenal paragangliomas. In 11 out of the 28 patients intra-adrenal pheochromocytomas were found. Extra-adrenal paragangliomas were discovered in eight patients. These tumors were detected during initial screening in 63% of cases, whereas 37% were detected after repeated biochemical screening. One patient was diagnosed with a biochemically silent pheochromocytoma. The high prevalence of pheochromocytomas/extra-adrenal paragangliomas in patients with SDHD-associated HNP warrants regular screening for tumors in these patients. Paragangliomas that do not secrete catecholamines might be more prevalent than previously reported. Future studies will have to establish whether routine imaging studies should be included in the screening of SDHD mutation carriers, irrespective of biochemical screening.

UI  - 19225531
TI  - Preparation for surgery of phaeochromocytoma by blockade of alpha-adrenergic receptors with urapidil: what dose?
AB  - The preparation for phaeochromocytoma surgery is a matter of debate. Pre-operative blockade of alpha-1 receptors is increasingly employed in an attempt to reduce the risk of hypertensive episodes, especially during manipulation of the tumour. In this study, we compared the interest of an almost complete blockade of these receptors by high doses of urapidil in comparison with that of moderate doses of this drug. The study was conducted in two consecutive series of 18 patients, the first treated by a moderate dose, and the second by the highest dose tolerated by the patient. The two groups were comparable in other respects. All patients were operated under laparoscopy by the same surgeon and managed by the same anaesthetist using the same protocol. The number of hypertensive peaks was significantly reduced using the high dose of urapidil, with no more hypotensive episodes after tumour removal in this group. The area under the curve of norepinephrine levels as a function of time was significantly larger with the high doses of urapidil, arguing in favour of a more complete blockade of alpha-1 receptors. Our findings indicate the value of aggressive blockade of alpha-1 receptors in preparation for surgery of phaeochromocytoma.

UI  - 19138315
TI  - Use of 6-[18F]-fluorodopamine positron emission tomography (PET) as first-line investigation for the diagnosis and localization of non-metastatic and metastatic phaeochromocytoma (PHEO).
AB  - For tumour localization, (18)F-FDA PET and (123/131)I-MIBG scintigraphy perform equally well in patients with non-metastatic PHEO, but metastases are better detected by (18)F-FDA PET than by (123/131)I-MIBG.

UI  - 19088184
TI  - The clinical value of [18F]fluoro-dihydroxyphenylalanine positron emission tomography in primary diagnosis, staging, and restaging of neuroendocrine tumors.
AB  - The study was set up to determine the clinical value of dihydroxyphenylalanine positron emission tomography-computed tomography ([(18)F]DOPA PET-CT) in patients with neuroendocrine tumors (NETs). Eighty-two patients with suspected/known NET were imaged with PET(-CT) using [(18)F]DOPA. Patients were divided into two groups: primary diagnosis/staging and restaging of disease. All patients without previous diagnosis of NET had biochemical proof of disease. The diagnostic accuracy of PET was assessed by comparing the histopathology and clinical follow-up. The overall accuracy of [(18)F]DOPA PET was 90%. In patients having PET for primary diagnosis/staging (n=32), the accuracy of PET was 88%, and for restaging 92% (n=61). The mean s.d. sizes of primary and metastatic lesions detected by PET were 26+/-11 and 16+/-9 mm respectively. In organ-region-specific analysis, the sensitivity and specificity were 100% in the primary diagnosis of pheochromocytoma (n=16) and metastases were found in all cases with recurrent disease (n=5). The accuracy for NET of gastrointestinal tract was 92% in restaging (n=24). For the NETs located in the head-neck-thoracic region (n=19), the overall accuracy of PET was 89% including 12 cases of recurrent medullary thyroid cancer with a sensitivity of 90%. In analysis of patients with biochemical proof of disease combined with negative conventional imaging methods, PET had positive and negative predictive value of 92% and 95% respectively. [(18)F]DOPA PET-CT provided important additional information in the diagnosis of pheochromocytoma and restaging of known NET. Both in primary diagnosis and in patients with formerly known NET and increasing tumor markers, [(18)F]DOPA PET-CT is a sensitive first-line imaging method.

UI  - 18780317
TI  - Treatment of malignant pheochromocytoma/paraganglioma with cyclophosphamide, vincristine, and dacarbazine: recommendation from a 22-year follow-up of 18 patients.
AB  - Combination chemotherapy with CVD produced objective tumor responses in patients with advanced malignant pheochromocytoma/paraganglioma. In this 22-year follow-up there was no difference in overall survival between patients whose tumors objectively shrank and those with stable or progressive disease. However, patients reported improvement in symptoms, had objective improvements in blood pressure, and had tumor shrinkage that made surgical resection possible. The authors conclude that CVD therapy is not indicated in every patient with metastatic pheochromocytoma/paraganglioma, but should be considered in the management of patients with symptoms and where tumor shrinkage might be beneficial.

UI  - 18549892
TI  - Prognostic indicators of malignancy in adrenal pheochromocytomas: clinical, histopathologic, and cell cycle/apoptosis gene expression analysis.
AB  - (1) A PASS score of <4 predicted benign pheochromocytomas. (2) All malignant pheochromocytomas had a PASS score >/=6, which was significantly higher compared with the benign lesions. Patients with a PASS score >/=4 should be followed closely for recurrence. (3) p53, Bcl-2, mdm-2, cyclin D1, p21, and p27 appear to have no role in predicting the behavior of pheochromocytomas. Ki-67 may help identify those neoplasms at risk for recurrence by prompting the pathologist to look aggressively for adverse histologic features.

UI  - 18510707
TI  - Analysis of selected genes in neuroendocrine tumours: insulinomas and phaeochromocytomas.
AB  - Insulinomas and phaeochromocytomas are neuroendocrine tumours that may be either sporadic or manifestation of a familial cancer syndromes and are both derived from the neural crest. In the present study, gene components of different signalling pathways were investigated in sporadic human insulinomas and phaeochromocytomas to identify the responsible candidates. Ret and k-ras were tested for activating point mutations, and NF1, p53, BRCA1, nm23-H1, SDHB and SDHD for loss of heterozygosity (LOH). Twenty-two sporadic insulinomas and 15 phaeochromocytomas were analysed by the polymerase chain reaction using restriction fragment length polymorphism or dinucleotide repeat polymorphism methods. The results of our analysis demonstrate that the most frequent changes were point mutations of k-ras: 23% of insulinomas and 62% of phaeochromocytomas harboured k-ras mutations. The analysis also showed two phaeochromocytomas with point mutations of the ret oncogene. Only one insulinoma showed LOH of NF1, and another showed LOH of p53. Allelic loss of BRCA1 was detected in two insulinomas, and of nm23-H1 in another insulinoma. Allelic losses of the SDHB gene were present in two phaeochromocytoma and one insulinoma cases and allelic losses of SDHD were present in one phaeochromocytoma case. The changes observed in phaeochromocytomas were more homogenous and confined to k-ras and ret oncogenes, whereas insulinomas showed more heterogenic situation. Our findings may contribute to a better understanding of the genetic profile of neuroendocrine tumours.

UI  - 18480742
TI  - Radiolabeled DOTATOC in patients with advanced paraganglioma and pheochromocytoma.
AB  - In these 28 patients, it was shown that radiolabeled DOTATOC can be effective in patients with somatostatin receptor positive paraganglioma. However, the therapy seems to be less effective than in gastroentero-pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors. Nevertheless, DOTATOC appears to be a treatment option for surgically incurable paragangliomas, because toxicity is very low and especially the fact that long lasting remissions could be achieved justifies the treatment. The final time to progression is not yet reached after a mean follow-up time of 19 months.

UI  - 18419787
TI  - Clinical manifestations of familial paraganglioma and phaeochromocytomas in succinate dehydrogenase B (SDH-B) gene mutation carriers.
AB  - SDH-B mutation carriers develop disease early and predominantly in extra-adrenal locations. Disease penetrance is incomplete. Metastatic disease is prominent but levels are less than previously reported. Clinical manifestations may include papillary renal cell carcinoma and macrovascular disease.

UI  - 18398641
TI  - Prospective randomized comparison of laparoscopic versus open adrenalectomy for sporadic pheochromocytoma.
AB  - Laparoscopic approach for pheochromocytoma can be as safe as open surgery; intraoperative haemodynamic instability, although usually controlled with success, remains a source of concern.

UI  - 18165573
TI  - Real-time heart rate variability and its correlation with plasma catecholamines during laparoscopic adrenal pheochromocytoma surgery.
AB  - This study demonstrated a strong correlation between low frequency HRV, plasma norepinephrine, arterial blood pressure, and heart rate during pheochromocytoma surgery.

UI  - 17873132
TI  - The effects of carbidopa on uptake of 6-18F-Fluoro-L-DOPA in PET of pheochromocytoma and extraadrenal abdominal paraganglioma.
AB  - Carbidopa enhances the sensitivity of (18)F-DOPA PET for adrenal pheochromocytomas and extraadrenal abdominal paragangliomas by increasing the tumor-to-background ratio of tracer uptake. The sensitivity of (18)F-DOPA PET for metastases of paraganglioma appears to be limited.

UI  - 17690941
TI  - Outcomes of pheochromocytoma management in the laparoscopic era.
AB  - The diagnosis of pheochromocytoma was made incidentally in 40% of patients. MIBG is not necessary for unilateral non-hereditary pheochromocytomas localized by CT/MRI. LA is possible with excellent results in most patients, including for treatment of lesions 6 cm or greater in size with no signs of invasion. Laparoscopy should be used cautiously for paragangliomas because of a high rate of malignancy.

UI  - 17594783
TI  - Parkinson's disease: the effect of L-dopa therapy on urinary free catecholamines and metabolites.
AB  - L-dopa therapy can result in production of false positives for urinary excretion of dopamine, homovanillic acid, free normetadrenaline or free metadrenaline and thereby decrease the diagnostic value of these measurements in identifying phaeochromocytoma and related tumours.

UI  - 17563565
TI  - Free plasma metanephrines as a screening test for pheochromocytoma in low-risk patients.
AB  - The satisfactory diagnostic efficacy of free plasma metanephrines allows their use as a single screening test in cases of suspected pheochromocytoma in the population with a low pretest probability.

UI  - 17180554
TI  - Posterior retroperitoneoscopic adrenalectomy: a comparison between the initial experience in the invention phase and introductory phase of the new surgical technique.
AB  - The study demonstrates the feasibility, safety, and reproducibility of the new surgical method of PRA both when it is employed in the early phase of invention, as well as when performed by surgeon-learners. After comprehensive training, the operative time and conversion rate are dramatically reduced, allowing for a short learning period.

UI  - 17138031
TI  - Reduced myocardial contractility assessed by tissue Doppler echocardiography is associated with increased risk during adrenal surgery of patients with pheochromocytoma: report of a preliminary study.
AB  - Patients with pheochromocytoma may have depressed myocardial contractility detected by tissue Doppler echocardiography despite a normal standard echocardiogram. A systolic SR less than 2 s(-1) was associated with an increased risk of perioperative collapse.

UI  - 17102115
TI  - Malignant pheochromocytomas and paragangliomas: a phase II study of therapy with high-dose 131I-metaiodobenzylguanidine (131I-MIBG).
AB  - Thirty patients with malignant pheochromocytoma (PHEO) or paraganglioma (PGL) were treated with high-dose 131I-MIBG. Patients were 11-62 (mean 39) years old: 19 patients males and 11 females. Nineteen patients had PGL, three of which were multifocal. Six PGLs were nonsecretory. Eleven patients had PHEO. All 30 patients had prior surgery. Fourteen patients were refractory to prior radiation or chemotherapy before 131I-MIBG. Peripheral blood stem cells (PBSCs) were collected and cryopreserved. 131I-MIBG was synthesized on-site, by exchange-labeling 131I with 127I-MIBG in a solid-phase Cu2+-catalyzed exchange reaction. 131I-MIBG was infused over 2 h via a peripheral IV. Doses ranged from 557 mCi to 1185 mCi (7.4 mCi/kg to 18.75 mCi/kg). Median dose was 833 mCi (12.55 mCi/kg). Marrow hypoplasia commenced 3 weeks after 131I-MIBG therapy. After the first 131I-MIBG therapy, 19 patients required platelet transfusions; 19 received GCSF; 12 received epoeitin or RBCs. Four patients received a PBSC infusion. High-dose 131I-MIBG resulted in the following overall tumor responses in 30 patients: 4 sustained complete remissions (CRs); 15 sustained partial remissions (PRs); 1 sustained stable disease (SD); 5 progressive disease (PD); 5 initial PRs or SD but relapsed to PD. Twenty-three of the 30 patients remain alive; deaths were from PD (5), myelodysplasia (1), and unrelated cause (1). Overall predicted survival at 5 years is 75% (Kaplan Meier estimate). For patients with metastatic PHEO or PGL, who have good *I-MIBG uptake on diagnostic scanning, high-dose 131I-MIBG therapy was effective in producing a sustained CR, PR, or SD in 67% of patients, with tolerable toxicity.

UI  - 17102105
TI  - Multicenter study on the diagnostic value of a new RIA for the detection of free plasma metanephrines in the work-up for pheochromocytoma.
AB  - Available laboratory test methods for the detection of elevated concentrations of catecholamines and their metabolites in urine and/or plasma are not always sensitive enough for the detection of pheochromocytoma. High-quality immunoassays for these compounds appear to be as accurate as high-pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC) or gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC-MS). Therefore, the current project aims to establish a new sensitive radioimmunoassay (RIA) for the measurement of free metanephrines in the plasma of patients in the work-up for pheochromocytoma. We report first results of an ongoing multicenter clinico-chemical evaluation study in hypertensive patients and normotensive volunteers. After an overnight fast plasma samples were collected on ice in EDTA- and heparin-coated tubes after insertion of an indwelling venous line and resting in the supine (patients) or sitting position (normal volunteers) for 30 min. Plasma metanephrines were measured by a newly developed RIA from IBL, Hamburg, Germany. Good agreement of the assay with the tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) method for normetanephrine (r2=0.975) and for metanephrine (r2=0.985) could be demonstrated. Both specimens, EDTA and heparin plasma, can be used with the same results. The RIA has a good precision of <15% in the normal range and of <10% in the elevated concentration range. Our preliminary data suggest a high validity of the newly developed RIA for measuring free metanephrine and normetanephrine in hypertensive subjects in both EDTA and heparin plasma. Further work is required to determine the accuracy of the test in larger patient populations and in patients with pheochromocytoma.

UI  - 17094534
TI  - Remifentanil preventing hemodynamic changes during laparoscopic adrenalectomy for pheochromocytoma.
AB  - In this prospective case-series study, a balanced anesthetic scheme of sevoflurane in nitrous oxide supplemented with remifentanil and sustained neuromuscular block was applied in nine patients scheduled for laparoscopic adrenalectomy for pheochromocytoma. Laparoscopic adrenalectomy to treat pheochromocytoma results in marked catecholamine release during pneumoperitoneum and tumor manipulation. Remifentanil infusion was adjusted to maintain systolic arterial pressure between 120-170 mmHg. Increased infusion rate of remifentanil was used (up to 3 microg/kg/min) to prevent and treat marked hemodynamic changes from catecholamine release during tumor manipulation. Hpotension after tumor removal was treated with additional colloids fluids and decreasing the remifentanil infusion rate by 25-50%.

UI  - 16860583
TI  - Clinical features of insulin-like growth factor-II producing non-islet-cell tumor hypoglycemia.
AB  - In some patients with non-islet-cell tumor hypoglycemia (NICTH), a high molecular weight form of IGF-II (big IGF-II) derived from tumors is present in the circulation and might be associated with recurrent hypoglycemia. In this study, in order to survey the clinical characteristics of patients with IGF-II producing NICTH, we analyzed the medical records of 78 patients with NICTH (M/F 44/34, age 62+/-1.8, range; 9-86 years.) whose serum contained a large amount of big IGF-II. Hepatocellular carcinoma and gastric carcinoma were the most common causes of NICTH. The diameters of the tumors were more than 10 cm in 70% of the patients. Basal immunoreactive insulin (IRI) levels were less than 3 microU/dl in 79% of the patients. Hypoglycemic attack was the onset of disease in 31 of 65 cases (48%), but the tumor was revealed prior to the occurrence of hypoglycemia in 34 cases (52%). Twenty-five of 47 (53%) patients had decreased serum potassium levels. These data suggested that hypoinsulinemic hypoglycemia associated with the presence of a large tumor supports the diagnosis of IGF-II producing NICTH. Hypokalemia was associated with hypoglycemia in some patients. The BMI (21.4+/-0.6 kg/m2) and serum total protein levels (6.6+/-0.1g/dl) were preserved at the occurrence of first hypoglycemic attack suggesting that malnutrition might not be the main cause of hypoglycemia in most patients.

UI  - 16794519
TI  - Sensitivity and positive predictive value of CT, MRI and 123I-MIBG scintigraphy in localizing pheochromocytomas: a prospective study.
AB  - Our data suggest that this imaging protocol should be used in all patients with biochemically confirmed pheochromocytoma.

UI  - 16520833
TI  - Labetalol pretreatment reduces blood pressure instability during surgical resection of pheochromocytoma.
AB  - This study has demonstrated that labetalol pretreatment (1.2 mg/kg) with supplemental SNP provides more favorable blood pressure control during surgical resection of pheochromocytoma than with SNP alone.

UI  - 16428576
TI  - Laparoscopic approach to pheochromocytoma: is a lower intraabdominal pressure helpful?
AB  - Laparoscopic adrenalectomy is gaining popularity because of its well-documented benefits. The aim of our study was to see if a decreased intraoperative intraabdominal pressure during laparoscopic adrenalectomy would affect the hemodynamic variables and the serum levels of catecholamines. We randomly divided 9 patients into 2 groups, maintaining either an intraabdominal pressure of 15 mm Hg (group A) or 8-10 mm Hg (group B). Norepinephrine and epinephrine blood levels were measured preoperatively, during endotracheal intubation, carboperitoneum, surgical manipulation of tumor just before the ligation of the adrenal vein, and tracheal extubation; the hemodynamic variables were recorded. The introduction of carboperitoneum resulted in an increase in heart rate and mean arterial blood pressure (MAP), although it was statistically insignificant. The norepinephrine levels showed a statistically significant increase in group A as compared with group B (P = 0.0002). Surgical manipulation of the tumor resulted in a significant increase in MAP and norepinephrine levels in group A (P = 0.007 and P = 0.0001, respectively). The epinephrine levels did not change as much because the tumor was probably predominantly norepinephrine-secreting. Norepinephrine levels continued to be high even during tracheal extubation in group A patients (P = 0.027). We conclude that a low intraabdominal pressure of 8-10 mm Hg causes less catecholamine release and fewer hemodynamic fluctuations.

UI  - 16421420
TI  - Phase II study of temozolomide and thalidomide in patients with metastatic neuroendocrine tumors.
AB  - Orally administered temozolomide and thalidomide seems to be an active regimen for the treatment of neuroendocrine tumors. In this 29-patient study, this regimen appeared more active in pancreatic endocrine tumors than in carcinoid tumors.

UI  - 16418883
TI  - [11C]metahydroxyephedrine and [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography improve clinical decision making in suspected pheochromocytoma.
AB  - PET scanning for pheochromocytoma offers improved quality and resolution over current diagnostic approaches. PET may significantly influence the clinical management of patients with a suspicion of these tumors and warrants further investigation.

UI  - 16046591
TI  - Repeated [131I]metaiodobenzylguanidine therapy in two patients with malignant pheochromocytoma.
AB  - Repeated intermediate-dosage [131I]MIBG treatment appears to be a reliable and well-tolerated radionuclide therapy and might be a useful adjunct in patients with malignant pheochromocytoma, providing longstanding palliation and prolonged survival.

UI  - 15912041
TI  - Laparoscopic curative resection of pheochromocytomas.
AB  - Laparoscopic resection of pheochromocytomas, including large lesions, can be accomplished safely by experienced surgeons. A short hospital stay with minimal operative morbidity and eradication of endocrinopathy support the minimally invasive approach for adrenalectomy in the setting of pheochromocytoma.

UI  - 15718487
TI  - Pheochromocytoma catecholamine phenotypes and prediction of tumor size and location by use of plasma free metanephrines.
AB  - Measurements of plasma free metanephrines not only provide information about the likely presence or absence of a pheochromocytoma, but when a tumor is present, can also help predict tumor size and location. This additional information may be useful for clinical decision-making during tumor localization procedures.

UI  - 15636427
TI  - Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), prostaglandin E2(PGE2) and active renin in hypertension of adrenal origin.
AB  - There are limited data regarding the role of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) in arterial hypertension. The aim of the present study was to determine some markers of vascular function, including VEGF, active renin and prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) in patients with endocrine hypertension. The study comprised: 30 patients with primary aldosteronism; 32 patients with active Cushing's syndrome; 19 patients with pheochromocytoma; 22 patients with essential hypertension and 24 healthy volunteers. VEGF was significantly elevated in all groups of patients as compared to the controls. VEGF levels in patients with Cushing's syndrome were significantly higher than those in patients with essential hypertension and primary aldosteronism. We did not find significant differences in VEGF levels between patients with Conn adenomas and idiopathic aldosteronism as well as between patients with Cushing's disease and Cushing's syndrome. PGE2 levels were not significantly different among the groups. Active renin was significantly the lowest in patients with primary aldosteronism and significantly the highest in those with pheochromocytoma compared to controls. The level of active renin in patients with primary aldosteronism was significantly lower than in patients with Cushing's syndrome and pheochromocytoma. In conclusion, VEGF levels were significantly elevated in patients with endocrine hypertension due to glucocorticoid, mineralocorticoid and/or catecholamine excess. The highest VEGF levels were detected in patients with Cushing's syndrome. The latter is associated with accelerated development of atherosclerosis and increased cardiovascular risk. VEGF might contribute to the cardiovascular risk in this disease. This effect was not likely to be PGE2 mediated.

UI  - 15499292
TI  - Imaging characterization of non-hypersecreting adrenal masses. Comparison between MR and radionuclide techniques.
AB  - MR techniques may provide some presumptive criteria to characterize non-hypersecreting adrenal masses, such as no gadolinium enhancement and definite signal intensity loss on CSI in adenomas or quantitatively measured T2-hyperintensity and gadolinium enhancement in pheos. On the other hand, radionuclide modalities offer more specific findings in this setting since nor-cholesterol and MIBG scans are respectively able to reveal benign tumors such as adenoma and pheochromocytoma, while FDG imaging allows identification of malignant adrenal lesions. Adrenal scintigraphy is recommended in those patients, when MR images are uncertain or inconclusive.

UI  - 15492723
TI  - [Intracranial haemorrhage associated with phaeochromocytoma].
AB  - The relationships between pheochromocytoma and cerebral aneurysm are discussed.

UI  - 15191473
TI  - Laparoscopic adrenalectomy for phaeochromocytoma: with caution.
AB  - The postoperative stay was equivalent to other laparoscopic series and laparoscopic removal was successful in 89%. The laparoscopic approach to the adrenal gland in phaeochromocytoma is safe and effective treatment.

UI  - 15026894
TI  - Laparoscopic adrenalectomy for pheochromocytoma. A comparison to aldosteronoma and incidentaloma.
AB  - Despite concern about increased operative times and morbidity associated with pheochromocytoma, our experience supports that laparoscopic adrenalectomy may be performed as safely as, and achieve outcomes similar to, those for other diseases.

UI  - 14766711
TI  - Effects of perioperative alpha1 block on haemodynamic control during laparoscopic surgery for phaeochromocytoma.
AB  - Perioperative alpha(1) block using i.v. urapidil is a safe and efficient alternative during surgical management of phaeochromocytoma.

UI  - 14656776
TI  - Systolic pressure variation (Deltadown) can guide fluid therapy during pheochromocytoma surgery.
AB  - During pheochromocytoma surgery, a Deltadown </= 2 mmHg appears to indicate minimal intravascular volume depletion. Deltadown measurements could be used to guide fluid therapy for the prevention and treatment of arterial hypotension following pheochromocytoma removal.

UI  - 14577024
TI  - Laparoscopic transperitoneal adrenalectomy.
AB  - Laparoscopic removal of the adrenal gland should be considered the surgical procedure of choice in experienced minimally invasive centers.

UI  - 14557363
TI  - Prognostic significance of small-artery structure in hypertension.
AB  - Our results strongly indicate a relevant prognostic role of structural alterations in small resistance arteries of a high-risk population.

UI  - 12970267
TI  - Superiority of 6-[18F]-fluorodopamine positron emission tomography versus [131I]-metaiodobenzylguanidine scintigraphy in the localization of metastatic pheochromocytoma.
AB  - The purpose of the study was to assess the diagnostic utility of 6-[(18)F]-fluorodopamine ([(18)F]-DA) positron emission tomography scanning (PET) vs. [(131)I]-metaiodobenzylguanidine (MIBG) scintigraphy in patients with metastatic pheochromocytoma (PHEO). We studied 10 men and six women (mean age 38.2 +/- 11.5 yr) referred to our institution for metastatic PHEO; two patients were studied twice within a 2-yr interval. Imaging modalities included computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), [(131)I]-MIBG scintigraphy, and [(18)F]-DA PET. Fifteen of 16 patients had positive findings on CT and/or MRI consistent with the presence of pheochromocytoma. [(18)F]-DA PET was positive in all patients, but seven patients had negative [(131)I]-MIBG scans. Thirty-eight foci of uptake were shown by both [(18)F]-DA PET and [(131)I]-MIBG scintigraphy, 90 only by [(18)F]-DA PET, and 10 only by [(131)I]-MIBG; most lesions were also visible on CT/MRI. In this initial series of patients with metastatic pheochromocytoma, [(18)F]-DA PET localized PHEO in all patients and showed a large number of foci that were not imaged with [(131)I]-MIBG scintigraphy. Thus, [(18)F]-DA PET was found to be a superior imaging method in patients with metastatic PHEO, in which correct detection of disease extension often determines the most appropriate therapeutic plan and future follow-up.

UI  - 12945223
TI  - [Clinical significant of serum chromogranin A levels for diagnosing pheochromocytoma in hypertensive patients].
AB  - The reliability of immunoradiometric serum CGA concentrations appeared according to this work to be comparable to that of the urinary KTCO levels and their urinary metabolites in hypertensives. Moreover, it solely requires a simple, easily done blood taking, less expensive than urinary KTCO collection. Besides, no antihypertensive drugs interfered with the analysis of CGA levels. However, some false positive results have to be mentioned in the presence of renal impairment, hypergastrinemia, corticotherapy, inhibitor of the pump with protons.

UI  - 12915647
TI  - Improvement of insulin sensitivity after adrenalectomy in patients with pheochromocytoma.
AB  - Our data provide evidence that endogenous catecholamine excess in patients with pheochromocytoma can induce or aggravate insulin resistance both in patients with type 2 diabetes and patients with normal glucose tolerance.

UI  - 12612887
TI  - High diagnostic accuracy of adrenal core biopsy: results of the German and Austrian adrenal network multicenter trial in 220 consecutive patients.
AB  - Incidentally detected adrenal tumors are a common finding during abdominal ultrasonography, computed tomography, and magnetic resonance imaging. Although most of these lesions are benign adenomas, adrenocortical carcinomas and metastases constitute 5% to 10% of all tumors. Adrenal biopsy may be helpful, but its diagnostic value is controversial and disputed, and prospective studies have not yet been performed. Therefore, the diagnostic accuracy of adrenal core biopsy was evaluated in a prospective multicenter study involving 8 surgical centers in Germany and Austria. A total of 220 biopsies from surgical specimens of the adrenal gland were punctured in an ex vivo approach and processed for pathohistologic diagnosis using paraffin sections, routine staining, and immunohistochemistry (keratin KL1, vimentin, S100 protein, chromogranin A, synaptophysin, neuron-specific enolase, D11, MiB-1, and p53 protein). The evaluating pathologist was blinded for clinical data from the patients. A total of 89 adrenal adenomas (40.5%), 22 adrenal carcinomas (10.0%), 55 pheochromocytomas (25.0%), 15 metastases (6.8%), 16 adrenal hyperplasias (7.2%), and 23 other tumors (10.5%) were studied. Nine cases were excluded due to incomplete data (n = 2) or insufficient biopsy specimen (n = 7). In the remaining 211 tumors, compared with the final diagnoses of the surgical specimen, bioptic diagnoses were absolutely correct in 76.8% of the cases, nearly correct in 13.2% of the cases, and incorrect in 10% of the cases. Pheochromocytomas were correctly diagnosed in 96% of the cases, cortical adenomas were correctly or nearly correctly reported in 91% of the cases, cortical carcinomas were correctly or nearly correctly reported in 76% of the cases, and metastases were correctly or nearly correctly reported in 77% of the cases. Of the 39 malignant lesions, only 4 were misclassified, 2 as benign and 2 as possibly malignant. This resulted in an overall sensitivity for malignancy of 94.6% and specificity of 95.3%. Our findings suggest that adrenal core biopsy is a useful method for identifying and classifying adrenal tumorous lesions if sufficient biopsy specimens can be obtained. However, in clinical practice it remains to be shown whether the benefits of biopsy outweigh the risks of the procedure.

UI  - 12518251
TI  - Role of conventional ultrasound and color Doppler sonography in the diagnosis of medullary thyroid carcinoma.
AB  - Early diagnosis of medullary thyroid carcinoma (MTC) can improve long-term prognosis. MTC can be detected at an early stage by calcitonin screening in all patients with thyroid nodules. This approach, however, is controversial due to high costs and a limited specificity of calcitonin. It was the aim of the present study to investigate whether ultrasonography may contribute to the diagnosis of MTC in patients with thyroid nodules. The study included 19 patients with newly diagnosed MTC. Ten patients had sporadic MTC, 7 had multiple endocrine neoplasia (MEN) type 2A, and 2 patients had MEN 2B. In all subjects conventional ultrasound, and in 14 patients color Doppler sonography were performed before primary surgery. For comparison, ultrasound appearance of 139 benign thyroid nodules was evaluated. In conventional ultrasound, MTC in 17/19 (89%) patients were hypoechoic, contained intranodular calcifications, and had no "halo sign". The combination of these criteria were found in only 8/139 (6%) of benign thyroid nodules. Intranodular blood flow was found in 11/14 patients with MTC (79%), perinodular blood flow in 7/14 MTC (50%). In conclusion, conventional ultrasound reveals a combination of hypoechogenicity, intranodular calcifications, and absence of "halo sign" in the vast majority of MTC. Since this sonographic pattern only rarely occurs in benign thyroid nodules, the results indicate that thyroid ultrasound can contribute to the diagnosis of MTC. In addition, the findings may have implications for calcitonin screening in nodular thyroid disease.

UI  - 12490841
TI  - RET proto-oncogene mutations affecting codon 790/791: A mild form of multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2A syndrome?
AB  - Patients with RET codon 790/791 mutations seemed to have a less aggressive clinical course compared with patients with classic multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2A syndrome. Still, index patients had a lower biochemic cure rate in comparison with screening patients. Timely total thyroidectomy including lymph node dissection is warranted.

UI  - 12438175
TI  - Malignant and benign pheochromocytoma: chromaffin granule transmitters and the response to medical and surgical treatment.
AB  - 

UI  - 12399875
TI  - Laparoscopic lateral adrenalectomy versus open posterior adrenalectomy for the treatment of benign adrenal tumors.
AB  - Laparoscopic adrenalectomy proved as a safe and reliable procedure, displaying all advantages of minimal access surgery. In our institution, it has become the standard technique employed for benign adrenal disease. However, the operation is technically demanding, and as adrenal surgery is rare, it should be restricted to centers with special interest in laparoscopic and endocrine surgery.

UI  - 12270004
TI  - Adrenal incidentaloma--experience of a standardized diagnostic programme in the Swedish prospective study.
AB  - In this Swedish multicentre study of 381 cases with adrenal incidentalomas, 5% had benign hypersecreting tumours and nearly 4% had malignant tumours. The results of the biochemical diagnostic tests used had a high compatibility with the histological diagnosis found at operation in the patients with hypersecreting tumours. Tumour size, male gender and high age were predictive for the risk of a malignant tumour. A follow-up of the patients is warranted in order to establish whether there are undiscovered cases of malignant or hypersecreting tumours amongst the nonoperated patients.

UI  - 12192533
TI  - Efficacy and safety of doxazosin for perioperative management of patients with pheochromocytoma.
AB  - Despite adverse side effects, phenoxybenzamine has been widely used for the preoperative management of patients with pheochromocytoma. Doxazosin, a specific a 1-adrenoceptor antagonist, has a pharmacologic profile more suited to controlling blood pressure in such patients. A sequential study of 35 patients with pheochromocytoma encompassed a definite and prescribed change in preoperative drug management from phenoxybenzamine to doxazosin. Hemodynamic, pharmacologic, and biochemical indicators of a- and b-adrenoceptor blockade were measured before, during, and after anesthesia and surgery in 8 patients pretreated with phenoxybenzamine and 27 patients pretreated with doxazosin. Doxazosin (2-16 mg/day) was as effective as phenoxybenzamine in controlling arterial pressure and heart rate before and during surgery, but doxazosin caused fewer undesirable side effects both before and after surgery. Following phenoxybenzamine therapy substantial a 1-adrenoceptor blockade, detected as a right shift of phenylephrine dose-response curves, persisted for more than 2 days postoperatively, whereas after doxazosin it was undetectable on the first postoperative day. Doxazosin provided safe, efficacious pre- and perioperative control of arterial pressure. In patients with predominantly norepinephrine-secreting tumors, pretreatment 24-hour urinary norepinephrine excretion gave an indication of the daily doxazosin requirement.

UI  - 12134591
TI  - [Laparoscopic adrenalectomy for pheochromocytoma. Perioperative blockade with urapidil].
AB  - Perioperative alpha 1 blockade by urapidil enables an effective and easy control of acute preoperative haemodynamic changes.

UI  - 11903030
TI  - Biochemical diagnosis of pheochromocytoma: which test is best?
AB  - Plasma free metanephrines provide the best test for excluding or confirming pheochromocytoma and should be the test of first choice for diagnosis of the tumor.

UI  - 11466678
TI  - Radioisotope-guided surgery in patients with pheochromocytoma and recurrent medullary thyroid carcinoma: a comparison of preoperative and intraoperative tumor localization with histopathologic findings.
AB  - RGS was capable of localizing more and smaller metastases of MTC compared with conventional imaging modalities and surgical palpation. However, the relatively high radioligand accumulation in the kidneys ((111)In-pentetreotide) and the dense hepatic and biliary signals using MIBG limited their use for intraoperative detection of tumors in the area of the adrenal gland.

UI  - 11440275
TI  - Plasma adrenomedullin concentrations in patients with adrenal pheochromocytoma.
AB  - This study demonstrates that circulating adrenomedullin is increased in pheochromocytoma, and is also correlated with plasma noradrenaline levels. Adrenomedullin may represent an additional biochemical parameter for clinical monitoring of patients with pheochromocytoma.

UI  - 11421540
TI  - Pheochromocytoma: clinical observations from a Brooklyn tertiary hospital.
AB  - Because our institution does not see the volume of referral patients as does the Mayo Clinic, we suggest that the frequency of pheochromocytoma may be underestimated in the patient population that we serve.

UI  - 11371870
TI  - Experience with retroperitoneal laparoscopic adrenalectomy for pheochromocytoma.
AB  - Retroperitoneal laparoscopic adrenalectomy can be safely performed for small (less than 5 cm. diameter) pheochromocytoma. Retroperitoneal laparoscopy is a direct approach that allows the surgeon to control the adrenal vein first, thereby avoiding hypertensive events.

UI  - 11134110
TI  - Differential genetic alterations in von Hippel-Lindau syndrome-associated and sporadic pheochromocytomas.
AB  - Pheochromocytomas arise sporadically and as a component tumor of the inherited cancer syndromes von Hippel-Lindau disease (VHL), multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2 (MEN 2), and type 1 neurofibromatosis. Germline mutations of the VHL tumor suppressor gene (VHL) are responsible for VHL, and germline RET protooncogene mutations are associated with MEN 2. The present study was conducted to examine a large series of 36 VHL-related pheochromocytomas for somatic VHL and RET gene alterations and loss of heterozygosity (LOH) of markers on chromosome arms 1p, 3p, and 22q. For comparison, the same analyses were performed in 17 sporadic pheochromocytomas. We found no somatic intragenic mutations within VHL and RET in any VHL or sporadic pheochromocytoma, and no pheochromocytoma demonstrated upstream VHL gene hypermethylation. Of interest, we found significantly different LOH frequencies at 3 loci between sporadic and VHL tumors; the more than 91% LOH of markers on 3p and the relatively low frequencies of LOH at 1p and 22q (15% and 21%, respectively) in VHL pheochromocytomas argue for the importance of VHL gene dysregulation and dysfunction in the pathogenesis of almost all VHL pheochromocytomas. In contrast, the relatively low frequency of 3p LOH (24%; P: < 0.0001) and the lack of intragenic VHL alterations compared with the high frequency of 1p LOH (71%; P: = 0.0003) and the moderate frequency of 22q LOH (53%) in sporadic pheochromocytomas argue for genes other than VHL, especially on 1p, that are significant for sporadic tumorigenesis and suggest that the genetic pathways involved in sporadic vs. VHL pheochromocytoma genesis are distinct.

UI  - 10915027
TI  - Complications of laparoscopic and retroperitoneoscopic adrenalectomies in 370 cases in Japan: a multi-institutional study.
AB  - A total of 370 laparoscopic adrenalectomies, including 311 transperitoneal (TP) and 59 retroperitoneal (RP) approaches, were performed in nine urologic centers, where the laparoscopic adrenalectomy was first begun independently in Japan, and their affiliated hospitals between January 1992 and September 1996. The clinical diagnoses of those 370 adrenal diseases were primary aldosteronism in 155 patients, Cushing's syndrome in 61. preclinical Cushing's syndrome in 21. pheochromocytoma in 16, nonfunctioning adenoma in 87, complicated cyst in ten, myelolipoma in nine, adrenal cancer in four and other diagnoses in eight (table 1). There was no mortality in this series. Intraoperative complication rate was 33/370 (9%) in total: 26/311(8%) in the TP procedures and 7/59 (12%) in the RP procedures (table 11). Postoperative complication rate was 24/370 (6%) in total: 22/311 (7%) in the TP procedures and 2/59 (3%) in the RP ones (table 111). Conversion rates to open surgery in total, in the TP and in the RP procedures were 13/370 (3.5%), 10/311 (3.2%) and 3/59 (5.1 %). respectively (table IV). Although the RP procedure has a lower morbidity rate compared to the TP procedure, more skill is required to overcome the drawback of the narrow working space and fewer anatomical landmarks.

UI  - 10915022
TI  - Catecholamine and cytokine response to laparoscopic adrenalectomy in patients with pheochromocytoma.
AB  - This study assesses the surgical stress of laparoscopic adrenalectomy (LA) in patients with pheochromocytoma using catecholamine and cytokine. The study was conducted on one patient who had laparoscopic adrenalectomy performed for pheochromocytoma, and three patients as controls who had undergone laparoscopic cholecystectomy (LC) for cholecystolithiasis. Catecholamines, tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha) and interleukin 6 (IL-6) were measured at 30-minute intervals intraoperatively, and on the first, third and fifth postoperative days (POD) respectively. Plasma TNFalpha and IL-6 were measured by a commercially available sandwich enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay test. During the operation. changes of catecholamine concentration in LA were far larger than those in LC. The changes of TNFalpha concentration in LA were also larger than those in LC. TNFalpha returned to basal value at the end of the operation in LC, but it did not in LA. TNFalpha concentration in LC changed a little after the surgery, whereas that in LA sharply increased and was maintained at a high level from 1 POD until 5 POD. Enhanced cytokine responses were observed in LA compared to LC during and after the surgery. We concluded that laparoscopic adrenalectomy may give those patients with pheochromocytoma more surgical stress than laparoscopic cholecystectomy for cholecystolithiasis, during and after the operation.

UI  - 10874700
TI  - No-carrier-added 123I-MIBG: an initial clinical study in patients with phaeochromocytoma.
AB  - Radioiodinated meta-iodobenzylguanidine (MIBG) is used routinely for imaging and targeted radiotherapy of tumours derived from the neural crest. Since active uptake of MIBG by the noradrenaline transporter (NAT) makes a greater contribution to total drug accumulation than passive uptake when MIBG is present at low concentrations, tumour-specific uptake should be enhanced by the administration of lower molar amounts of MIBG. This could be achieved through the use of MIBG with a high specific activity. Commercially available preparations of 123I-MIBG have specific activities of approximately 200 MBq.mg-1. We have synthesized and used no-carrier-added (n.c.a.) 123I-MIBG produced by an iododesilylation reaction (specific activity 0.7 TBq.mg-1). We report here the first clinical studies comparing the commercially available and n.c.a. MIBG diagnostic preparations. Five patients with known phaeochromocytoma were studied. Unlike studies in animal models, no consistent improvement in tumour uptake was observed with the n.c.a. material. A larger patient group is required to determine whether there are significant differences between the two preparations, before proceeding to studies at therapeutic activity levels of n.c.a. 131I-MIBG. Even with no improvement in tumour uptake, n.c.a. MIBG may be the favoured formulation for therapeutic applications to reduce the molar amount of drug injected.

UI  - 10853814
TI  - Alteration of myocardial metaiodobenzylguanidine uptake after treatment of phaeochromocytoma and neuroblastoma.
AB  - The relationships between changes in myocardial uptake of metaiodobenzylguanidine (MIBG) and those in circulating catecholamines and cardiac function after treatment of phaeochromocytoma and neuroblastoma were evaluated. Iodine-123 or iodine-131 MIBG scintigraphy was performed before and after surgical resection and/or chemotherapy for primary tumours in nine patients with phaeochromocytoma and 13 patients with neuroblastoma. Changes in myocardial MIBG uptake after treatment were estimated by the heart-to-upper mediastinum (H/M) uptake ratios on the images obtained 24 h after MIBG injection, which were compared with serum levels of noradrenaline (NA) and adrenaline (A). Cardiac function was assessed by echocardiography, with measurements of the left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF). Before treatment, eight patients with phaeochromocytoma and three with neuroblastoma showed poor myocardial MIBG uptake, with highly elevated circulating NA and A. Echocardiography, however, did not show cardiac dysfunction in these patients with the exception of two patients with phaeochromocytoma. With normalization of NA and A levels after treatment, all of these patients except for the two with persistent cardiac dysfunction showed restoration of myocardial MIBG uptake. The H/M ratios increased significantly after treatment in both patient groups, i.e. with phaeochromocytoma and with neuroblastoma (P<0.0001 and P<0.05, respectively), and these ratios correlated inversely with circulating NA and A before and after treatment. By contrast, there was no significant correlation between H/M ratios and LVEF in these two groups. These results indicate that suppression of myocardial MIBG uptake usually may not be related to cardiac dysfunction and may be reversible following normalization of excess catecholamine levels after treatment in patients with neuroadrenergic tumours. However, the suppression may persist in the presence of catecholamine-induced cardiac dysfunction. The assessment of myocardial MIBG uptake can be a helpful adjunct in monitoring the normalization of circulating catecholamine levels and also in identifying the presence of cardiac dysfunction in treated patients with neuroadrenergic tumours.

UI  - 10714067
TI  - [Evaluation of clinical utility of 123I-MIBG scintigraphy in localization of tumors of sympathetic and adrenomedullary origin--a report of multicenter phase III clinical trials].
AB  - Phase III clinical study was performed to evaluate clinical utility of 123I-MIBG in the localization of tumors in 48 patients with tumors of sympathetic and adrenomedullary origin, diagnosed or strongly suspected. Sixteen patients had pheochromocytoma, 23 had neuroblastoma, 7 had medullary carcinoma of the thyroid, and 2 had Sipple syndrome. In 3 out of 48 patients, 123I-MIBG scintigraphy was performed twice. The clinical utility of 123I-MIBG was evaluated in 50 cases. Out of 140 lesions, 123I-MIBG scintigraphy demonstrated 51 true positive, 79 true negative, 1 false positive, and 2 false negative. Seven lesions were not evaluable. Sensitivity was 96.2%, Specificity was 98.8%, and Accuracy was 97.7%. An acquisition between 4 hrs and a day after injection was adequate for tumor detection. Neither adverse reactions nor abnormal laboratory findings were noted in relation to 123I-MIBG injections. Our study indicates that 123I-MIBG is a safe and useful radiotracer for visualization and localization of tumors of sympathetic and adrenomedullary origin.

UI  - 10678269
TI  - Changes in clinical features and long-term prognosis in patients with pheochromocytoma.
AB  - To investigate changes in preoperative clinical features and the long-term outcome of tumor recurrence, mortality, and morbidity in patients with pheochromocytoma, we retrospectively examined changes in the clinical features by comparing 49 patients from 1957 to 1985 (group I) with 46 patients from 1986 to December 1995 (group II). In addition in these 95 patients (excluding 2 who had died before operation), we evaluated long-term postoperative outcome from the initial operation to August 1996 (909 patient-years). The mean age in group II was older than that of group I. The percentage of patients having proteinuria or hypertensive retinopathy in group II was less than that in group I. Of 20 patients with incidentally discovered pheochromocytoma, 7 (35%) were > or =60 years old, 7 asymptomatic, and 11 (55%) normotensive. Plasma and urinary catecholamines in these patients were significantly (P < .01) lower than in patients with pheochromocytoma having typical clinical features. Long-term cohort study showed 14 deaths. Relative survival rates were 91% at 5 years and 83% at 10 years and unchanged thereafter. The Kaplan-Meier estimate of pheochromocytoma-free survival was shorter in patients with a larger-than-median (60 g) tumor weight. Six patients had malignant recurrence 3 to 101 months (median, 45 months) after the initial operation. Of 65 patients confirmed alive at follow-up, 11 were hypertensive. In the Cox model, hypertension-free survival was not associated with age, a family history of hypertension, duration of hypertension, or creatinine clearance. Pheochromocytoma should be diagnosed from a wide spectrum of clinical features including those that are not generally suspected of resulting from excess catecholamines or hypertension, and after surgery, patients with this disease should be followed-up carefully for a long period (at least 10 years) because of the risk of tumor recurrence and the high prevalence of disease.

UI  - 10681997
TI  - [Predictive genetic investigations. Individualization of diagnosis and treatment in families with multiple endocrine neoplasia type II].
AB  - These results emphasize the importance of genetic tests in family screening. Preoperative measurement of calcitonin remains essential in MEN2 families in whom a germ-line mutation is not known. The choice of the appropriate diagnostic test must be individualized to the particular patients so that optimal results are obtained.

UI  - 10672908
TI  - Release of neuropeptide Y and hemodynamic changes during surgical removal of human pheochromocytomas.
AB  - This study investigates the release of Neuropeptide Y from eight human pheochromocytomas. Profil immunoreactive Neuropeptide Y (Ir-NPY) levels during the management of surgery were compared with these of norepinephrine (NE) while hemodynamics were monitored. Plasma IrNPY and NE levels increased during tumor manipulation and returned to near normal one hour after operation. However, Ir-NPY levels remained high just after tumor resection while NE levels were significantly decreased. At tumor manipulation and just after tumor resection, plasma Ir-NPY levels were correlated with the systemic vascular resistances (SVR) (r = 0.74; P<0.04 and r = 0.86; P<0.006 respectively). No correlation was found either between plasma Ir-NPY and NE levels or between plasma NE levels and SVR. The release of Ir-NPY from tumor tissue, studied by a superfusion method, exhibited a significant correlation with the plasma Ir-NPY concentrations at the time of corresponding tumor resection (r = 0.95; P<0.007). Chromatographic analysis showed that Ir-NPY in plasma and outflow migrate as human NPY (1-36). These results confirmed that in pheochromocytoma, plasma NPY mainly originates from the tumor and argue for an important role of NPY in pheochromocytoma hypertension as indicated by the correlation between the Ir-NPY levels and the SVR.

UI  - 11116123
TI  - Malignant pheochromocytoma. Chromaffin granule transmitters and response to treatment.
AB  - Chromaffin granule transmitters such as chromogranin A and catecholamines have been used in the diagnosis of pheochromocytoma, but the diagnostic and prognostic value of chromogranin A have not been explored in malignant pheochromocytoma. We evaluated these transmitters in patients with pheochromocytoma (n=27), both benign (n=13) and malignant (n=14). Patients with benign pheochromocytoma were studied before and after surgical excision (n=6), whereas patients with malignant pheochromocytoma were evaluated before and after combination chemotherapy with regular cycles of cyclophosphamide/dacarbazine/vincristine (nonrandomized trial in n=9). During treatment, patient responses to chemotherapy were divided according to anatomic and clinical criteria: responders (n=5) versus nonresponders (n=4). Plasma chromogranin A rose progressively (P<0.0001) from control subjects (48.0+/-3.0 ng/mL) to benign pheochromocytoma (188+/-40.5 ng/mL) to malignant pheochromocytoma (2932+/-960 ng/mL). Parallel changes were seen for plasma norepinephrine (P<0.0001), though plasma epinephrine was actually lower in malignant than benign pheochromocytoma (P=0.0182). In bivariate analyses, chromogranin A, norepinephrine, and epinephrine discriminated between pheochromocytoma and control subjects (all P<0.0001), whereas in a multivariate analyses, norepinephrine was the best discriminator (P:=0.011). Chromogranin A was significantly different in benign versus malignant pheochromocytoma on both bivariate (P=0.0003) and multivariate (P:=0.011) analyses. After excision of benign pheochromocytoma, chromogranin A (P=0.028), norepinephrine (P=0.047), and epinephrine (P=0.037) all fell to values near normal. During chemotherapy of malignant pheochromocytoma (n=9), plasma chromogranin A (P=0.047) and norepinephrine (P=0.02) fell but not epinephrine. In 5 responders to chemotherapy, there were significant declines in chromogranin A (P=0.03) and norepinephrine (P=0.03) but not epinephrine; in 4 nonresponders, none of the transmitters changed. Plasma chromogranin A varied longitudinally with tumor response and relapse. We conclude that plasma chromogranin A is an effective tool in the diagnosis of pheochromocytoma, and markedly elevated chromogranin A may point to malignant pheochromocytoma. During chemotherapy of malignant pheochromocytoma, chromogranin A can be used to gauge tumor response and relapse.

UI  - 10601965
TI  - Pheochromocytoma in Italy: a multicentric retrospective study.
AB  - The present study confirms that the clinical presentation of pheochromocytoma is variable and aspecific. Normotension is often present and often the tumor is discovered incidentally. An indication for the routine use of screening methods more sensitive than urinary VMA is strongly suggested. The clonidine test was found to be safe and should be preferred to the glucagon test which has to be restricted to very selected patients. CT and MIBG scintigraphy are almost always successful in localizing the tumor. Reversal of hypertension by surgery seems to depend on an early diagnosis.

UI  - 10586357
TI  - [Noninvasive screening for pheochromocytoma in patients with an incidentally discovered adrenal mass: usefulness of provocative test with metoclopramide and 131I-metaiodobenzylguanidine scintigraphy].
AB  - Pheochromocytoma accounts for approximately 25% of incidentally discovered adrenal masses. Certain diagnostic procedures (e.g., adrenal arteriography, needle biopsy of an adrenal mass), anesthesia and abdominal surgery may cause a sudden release of catecholamines from a pheochromocytoma and induce paroxysmal attacks of hypertension. In addition, pheochromocytoma is well known to cause unsuspected operating room deaths. Therefore, we must carefully separate this functioning neoplasm from other types of adrenal masses. In this study, we compared the results of noninvasive tests including (1) assay of urinary catecholamines and their metabolites, (2) a provocative pharmacologic test using metoclopramide (MCP test), and (3) 131I-metaiodobenzylguanidine (MIBG) scintigraphy to screen for pheochromocytoma in 10 consecutive patients with an incidentally discovered adrenal mass (6 pheochromocytomas and 4 non-functioning adrenocortical adenomas). We measured the 24-hour urinary excretion of catecholamines, metanephrines and vanillyl mandelic acid in all 10 patients; 5 were positive, 4 were negative and 1 was false-negative (sensitivity = 83%, specificity = 100%). The MCP test was performed in 7 patients; 3 were positive, 3 were negative and 1 was false-negative (sensitivity = 75%, specificity = 100%). MIBG scintigraphy was performed in 7 patients; 4 were positive, 1 was negative and 2 were false-negative (sensitivity = 67%, specificity = 100%). According to these results, all patients with an incidentally discovered adrenal mass should undergo a determination of the 24-hour urinary excretion of catecholamines and their metabolites, including metanephrines. If this urine assay is negative, other noninvasive tests including the MCP test and MIBG scintigraphy should be considered in selected patients with radiographic characteristics of pheochromocytoma.

UI  - 10546389
TI  - [Experiences with adrenalectomy in 1997. Apropos of 247 cases. A multicenter prospective study of the French-speaking Association of Endocrine Surgery].
AB  - Laparoscopic adrenalectomy is now indicated for the majority of adrenal tumors. Several complications observed in this series were related to the learning curve in several centers. Laparoscopic adrenalectomy is the 'gold standard' in uni- or bilateral benign tumors no larger than 6 or 7 cm. 'Open' surgery is indicated in malignant tumors, especially in adreno-cortical carcinomas, and in all large tumors.

UI  - 10489394
TI  - Sympathetic nerve traffic responses to surgical removal of pheochromocytoma.
AB  - Pheochromocytoma is usually characterized by a marked increase in peripheral catecholamine secretion. Whether this is accompanied by an alteration in central sympathetic drive has not been clarified. In 6 patients with adrenal pheochromocytoma (mean+/-SEM age, 49. 3+/-7.2 years), we measured systolic and diastolic blood pressure (photoplethysmographic device), heart rate (ECG), venous plasma catecholamines (high-performance liquid chromatography), and postganglionic muscle sympathetic nerve activity (microneurography) before and 78.3+/-13 days after surgical removal of the tumor. In each experimental session, measurements were performed during (1) a 60-minute resting period to compare several values of sympathetic nerve traffic at similar blood pressures before and after surgery and (2) voluntary end-expiratory apnea, ie, a maneuver inducing sympathetic activation. Tumor removal significantly (P<0.05 at least) reduced plasma catecholamines, blood pressure, and heart rate. In contrast, muscle sympathetic nerve activity was significantly (P<0.01) increased, both when quantified as bursts per minute (from 28.1+/-5.7 to 54.3+/-7.5) and as bursts per 100 heartbeats (from 33. 4+/-5.6 to 65.1+/-6.5). This was also the case when data were evaluated in periods of 2 experimental sessions characterized by similar diastolic blood pressure values. The apnea maneuver induced sympathetic nerve traffic responses that were significantly (P<0.05) greater after surgery than before surgery. These data provide the first direct evidence that in pheochromocytoma central sympathetic outflow is markedly reduced and that this reduction cannot be ascribed to a reflex inhibitory response to elevated blood pressures. It is likely that this sympathoinhibition is rather due to a central depression of sympathetic outflow induced by high circulating catecholamines.

UI  - 10440191
TI  - Treatment of malignant pheochromocytomas with 131-I metaiodobenzylguanidine and chemotherapy.
AB  - Malignant pheochromocytomas have exhibited partial responses to treatments with 131-I metaiodobenzylguanidine (MIBG) and with chemotherapy. The authors combined these two therapeutic methods to determine if beneficial effects from each would be additive. Patients with documented malignant pheochromocytomas were recruited with the intent of administering 131-I MIBG in three substantial amounts of radioactivity at 3-month intervals followed by a year of chemotherapy in which cyclophosphamide, dacarbazine, and vincristine were to be given in 21-day cycles. Six patients entered the protocol. After the 131-I MIBG treatments, three patients manifested declines in the presence of tumor (smaller tumor volume or abnormalities on bone and 131-I MIBG scans) and the function of tumor (decreased rate of normetanephrine excretion as the major index). Two patients completed at least 9 months of chemotherapy and showed further reductions in the presence and function of tumors and were classified as having partial responses. Progressive disease afflicted three of the other four subjects. Even though toxicity was minimal from 131-I MIBG, it was sufficient to force reduction in the dosages or duration of chemotherapy. A combination of 131-I MIBG treatments and chemotherapy produced additive effects in reducing malignant pheochromocytomas. Toxicity moderately curtailed the proposed chemotherapy protocol.

UI  - 10353549
TI  - Tumour size: the only predictive factor for 131I MIBG uptake in phaeochromocytoma and paraganglioma.
AB  - The result of 131I MIBG scanning in patients with chromaffin tumours is significantly correlated with the size of the tumour.

UI  - 10226821
TI  - Diagnosis of pheochromocytoma using [123I]-compared with [131I]-metaiodobenzylguanidine scintigraphy.
AB  - These results indicate that [123I]-MIBG scintigraphy is a valuable tool for the local detection of PCT, as is [131I]-MIBG scintigraphy. Furthermore, it is possible that [123I]-MIBG can be used as an alternative to [131I]-MIBG for the detection of PCT. Our study was not a prospective study and the background of the patients was not matched. Further prospective studies are needed in order to determine the efficacy of [123I]-MIBG scintigraphy for the diagnosis of PCT.

UI  - 10219021
TI  - Adrenal incidentaloma: report of 33 cases.
AB  - An optimal diagnostic approach to an adrenal incidentaloma would consider the results of the biochemical tests and a review of anatomical qualities depicted on CT or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) while taking into account the previous clinical epidemiologic data.

UI  - 10022680
TI  - Successful outcomes in pheochromocytoma surgery in the modern era.
AB  - Preoperative alpha-adrenergic blockade is not essential in pheochromocytoma patients. Calcium channel blockers are just as effective and safer when used as the primary mode of antihypertensive therapy. Surgery for pheochromocytoma is safe in the modern era.

UI  - 9869685
TI  - Surgical treatment of pheochromocytomas: laparoscopic or conventional?
AB  - Laparoscopic adrenalectomy is a safe procedure for patients with pheochromocytoma.

UI  - 9860225
TI  - Experience gained from operation of 103 adrenal incidentalomas.
AB  - Our experience confirms that in case of incidentaloma, the first concern is a nonfunctional pheochromocytoma (15%), and the less common occurrence is adreno-cortical carcinoma (2%). We recommend a restrictive surgical approach in the setting of adrenal incidentalomas.

UI  - 9839497
TI  - Genotype-phenotype correlation of patients with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2 in Japan.
AB  - DNA testing has good clinical implications for the management of patients with MEN 2 and the timing and operative procedures of thyroidectomy can be modified according to the genotype.

UI  - 9752467
TI  - [Exclusive use of calcium channel blockers and cardioselective beta-blockers in the pre- and per-operative management of pheochromocytomas. 70 cases].
AB  - The pre and intraoperative use of calcium channel blockers (CCB) has been suggested for the management of either eutopic or ectopic pheochromocytomas. We report our experience of 70 pheochromocytomas, operated between 1988 and 1996 and managed with CCB, especially nicardipine. 59 were hypertensive (84.2%). Preparation consisted of nicardipine in 61 patients or another CCB in 9 cases with duration ranging from 24 hours to several weeks depending on plasma volume and blood pressure control. Intraoperatively, nicardipine infusion was started after intubation, adjusted according to systolic blood pressure (SBP) and stopped before ligation of the tumor venous drainage. Increases in SBP greater than 200 mmHg were observed in 10 patients and were effectively controlled by nicardipine in all cases. In 16 patients, the S > BP remained less than 150 mmHg throughout anesthesia. Heart rate greater than 100 b p m occureed in 51 patients and was easily controlled with esmolol whenever used (n = 27). Arythmias were unfrequent (n = 4) and required treatment in only one case. This study confirms the ability to adequately manage pheochromocytomas with the use of nicardipine as sole vasodilating agent.

UI  - 9736850
TI  - A failure to reproduce the intermediate effect in clinical case recall.
AB  - Although it is unclear why the experts' case processing was more elaborate in the present study than in the earlier study, it must be concluded that expert medical knowledge is so flexibly organized that experts can easily represent clinical cases in either the encapsulated or the elaborated mode.

UI  - 9537705
TI  - Effectiveness and limits of preoperative imaging studies for the localisation of pheochromocytomas and paragangliomas: a review of 282 cases. French Association of Surgery (AFC), and The French Association of Endocrine Surgeons (AFCE).
AB  - The accuracy with which pheochromocytomas and paragangliomas can be visualized questions nowadays the routine use of abdominal approach. In selected cases of sporadic unilateral chromaffin tumours, a posterior, lateral, or even laparoscopic approach should be considered.

UI  - 9465855
TI  - [Therapy of malignant pheochromocytoma. Invitation to participate in a randomized multicenter study].
AB  - 

UI  - 9465602
TI  - [Clinical study of gasless laparoscopic adrenalectomy in 17 cases--comparison between laparoscopic adrenalectomy with and without pneumoperitoneum].
AB  - Gasless laparoscopic adrenalectomy is available for most adrenal tumors. Suction could be used unrestrictedly and there were no hemodynamic or ventilatory effects due to pneumoperitoneum. This procedure appears to be safe and advantageous for the treatment of most adrenal tumors.

UI  - 9348374
TI  - Multicentric experience of the Belgian Group for Endoscopic Surgery (BGES) with endoscopic adrenalectomy.
AB  - Endoscopic adrenalectomy can safely be performed-even sporadically-by surgeons well versed in adrenalectomy techniques for endocrine disorders and trained in endoscopic surgery.

UI  - 9339930
TI  - Laparoscopic adrenalectomy: lessons learned from 100 consecutive procedures.
AB  - Laparoscopic adrenalectomy is safe, effective, and decreases hospital stay and wound complications. Prior abdominal surgery is not a contraindication. Pheochromocytomas can be resected safely laparoscopically despite blood pressure variations. Venous thrombosis prophylaxis is mandatory. The laparoscopic approach is the procedure of choice for adrenalectomy except in the case of invasive carcinoma or masses > 15 cm.

UI  - 9293786
TI  - Specificity of radioiodinated MIBG for neural crest tumors in childhood.
AB  - MIBG scintigraphy is highly specific for neuroblastoma and pheochromocytoma. Only 4% (4/100) of nonsympathomedullary tumors (non-pheochromocytoma and non-neuroblastoma) in childhood showed MIBG uptake, of which only 2% (2/100) were of non-neural crest origin.

UI  - 9145969
TI  - Laparoscopic adrenalectomy: a new standard of care.
AB  - LA is a safe and effective approach in most patients with adrenal pathology. Benefits include excellent operative exposure and visualization, less postoperative pain, shorter hospital stay and convalescent period, and improved cosmetic result. Pheochromocytoma is not a contraindication to LA. Patients with large adrenal tumors (larger than 6 cm), evidence of venous involvement, or invasion into surrounding tissue should be approached cautiously.

UI  - 9125485
TI  - Frequency of pheochromocytoma in adrenal incidentalomas and utility of the glucagon test for the diagnosis.
AB  - To investigate the frequency of pheochromocytoma in patients with incidentally discovered adrenal masses (incidentalomas) and to evaluate the sensitivity, specificity and diagnostic accuracy of the Glucagon test in comparison with resting plasma catecholamines, 89 patients with adrenal incidentalomas (age range 23-80 yr; 41 males and 48 females) were studied. Fifty-seven patients were normotensive (SBP 130+/-1.8 mmHg; DBP 80+/-0.7 mmHg, mean+/-SE) and 32 had stable hypertension (SBP 155+/-3.3 mmHg, DBP 93+/-1.4 mmHg): no patient complained of typical signs or symptoms of pheochromocytoma. Resting plasma samples for noradrenaline and adrenaline determination and, at appropriate intervals, the Glucagon test (1 mg i.v.), were performed in all subjects. Diagnosis of pheochromocytoma was made on the basis of humoral evaluations and/or surgical intervention in 6 patients (6.7%), of whom 3 hypertensives and 3 normotensives. Resting plasma catecholamines revealed 5 out of 6 patients with pheochromocytoma: in 3 cases both catecholamines were above the normal range, in 1 only adrenaline was elevated and in 1 case only noradrenaline. Similarily, the glucagon test identified 5/6 pheochromocytomas: in 3 patients the response was abnormal for both catecholamines, in 1 only for adrenaline and in 1 case only for noradrenaline. The sensitivity, specificity, and diagnostic accuracy of resting plasma catecholamines and of the glucagon test were comparable: 83.3%, 96.3%, and 95.5%, respectively. In conclusion, the frequency of pheochromocytoma in adrenal incidentalomas is not negligible, and since the diagnostic accuracy of the Glucagon test is the same of that of resting plasma catecholamines, the former does not appear to offer additional advantages in the diagnosis of incidentally discovered pheochromocytomas.

UI  - 9501691
TI  - [Evaluation of the usefulness for measuring catecholamines and their principle metabolites in the diagnosis of pheochromocytoma].
AB  - Objective of the study was assessment of the usefulness of determination of noradrenaline (NA) and adrenaline (A) in urine and blood as well as the total methoxycatecholamines (MNA +MA), vanillylmandelic acid (VMA), DOPA and dopamine (DA) urinary excretion in diagnosis of pheochromocytoma. The experience based on 155 patients with pheochromocytoma (105F, 50M, age 18-82 yrs) diagnosed in the Department of Hypertension and Angiology Academy of Medicine in Warsaw will be discussed. In all patients excluding 2 cases pheochromocytoma has been proven histopathologically. The most considerable diagnostic usefulness of MNA + MA indication was proven. MNA + MA was increased in 96.6 patients. In 89.6% patients an increased excretion of NA and A or one of this catecholamines was demonstrated. An increased excretion of VMA was demonstrated in 75%. The excretion of DOPA and dopamine was tested in 120 cases. An increased excretion of DA was shown in 31% and DOPA in 16%.

UI  - 9167965
TI  - Adrenal incidentaloma: an overview of clinical and epidemiological data from the National Italian Study Group.
AB  - The occurrence of incidentally discovered adrenocortical carcinomas and pheochromocytomas is not rare. Evaluation of the mass size and CT characteristics are simple and effective methods to differentiate malignant lesions. Biochemical screening for pheochromocytoma is mandatory before surgery.

UI  - 9059556
TI  - Octreotide scintigraphy and catecholamine response to an octreotide challenge in malignant phaeochromocytoma.
AB  - Octreotide scintigraphy behaves in part complementary to MIBG, thus, increasing diagnostic sensitivity. Presence of somatostatin receptors, as demonstrated by octreotide scintigraphy, does not necessarily predict functional activity or therapeutic response.

UI  - 8901824
TI  - Vascular hypertrophy and remodeling in secondary hypertension.
AB  - It has been proposed that several neurohumoral factors may be involved in the genesis of vascular structural changes (remodeling or hypertrophy) frequently observed in essential hypertension. Therefore, in this study we investigated vascular structural alterations of subcutaneous small resistance arteries in patients with secondary forms of hypertension. The study included 70 participants: 11 with pheochromocytoma, 13 with primary aldosteronism, and 17 with renovascular hypertension; 13 normotensive subjects and 16 patients with essential hypertension served as controls. All subjects were submitted to a biopsy of subcutaneous fat. Small resistance arteries were dissected and mounted on a micromyograph, and media-lumen ratio, media thickness, remodeling index, and growth index were evaluated. Endothelial function was evaluated according to the dose-response curve to acetylcholine. In patients with either primary aldosteronism or renovascular hypertension, a marked increase in media-lumen ratio was observed, whereas in patients with pheochromocytoma, the extent of vascular structural alterations was similar to that observed in patients with essential hypertension. The increase in media-lumen ratio in patients with essential hypertension and with pheochromocytoma was mainly due to vascular remodeling (remodeling index, 93% to 94%), whereas in patients with renovascular hypertension, there was vascular growth (remodeling index, 70%; growth index, 53%). Patients with primary aldosteronism had an intermediate pattern compared with the other two forms of secondary hypertension. An evident impairment of endothelial function was observed in all four hypertensive groups. In conclusion, the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system seems to be more powerful than the adrenergic system in inducing vascular growth.

UI  - 8678955
TI  - Primary hyperparathyroidism in multiple endocrine neoplasia type IIa: retrospective French multicentric study. Groupe d'Etude des Tumeurs  Calcitonine (GETC, French Calcitonin Tumors Study Group), French Association of Endocrine Surgeons.
AB  - Primary hyperparathyroidism (PHPT) in multiple endocrine neoplasia (MEN) type IIa is rare, occurring in 20% to 30% of the patients. The aim of this study was to evaluate clinical findings, surgical therapy, and outcome for 56 patients affected by PHPT among 249 MEN-IIa patients collected from 84 families assembled by the Groupe d'Etude des Tumeurs  Calcitonine (GETC, French Calcitonin Tumors Study Group). This retrospective study was based on cases registered by the GETC (20 participating centers) from 1969 to 1994. Characteristics of PHPT in 56 patients (31 women, 25 men) with MEN-IIa were reviewed. All but two underwent cervicotomy. The median age at diagnosis was 37.6 years. PHPT was found concomitantly with medullary thyroid carcinoma (MTC) or pheochromocytoma in 43 patients (77%). PHPT was asymptomatic in 68% of the patients. Serum calcium levels ranged from 2.20 to 3.70 mmol/L (median 2.82 mmol/L; normal 2. 10-2.60 mmol/L). The number of parathyroid glands removed at surgery was 0 (n = 2), 1 (n = 24), 2 (n = 5), > 2 (n = 12), 4 (n = 11). Pathology (initial surgery) consisted of 24 adenomas, 4 double adenomas, and 25 hyperplasia. Cure after initial surgery was obtained in 89%, including a 22% incidence of hypoparathyroidism. There were 6 cases (11%) with persistent PHPT. With a mean follow-up of 6.4 years, five patients (9%) had recurrent PHPT. The results indicate that MEN-IIa-related PHPT is generally associated with mild, often asymptomatic hypercalcemia. Despite recurrences encountered 5 to 15 years after the first cervicotomy, resection of only macroscopically enlarged glands generally appears sufficient. Subtotal or total parathyroidectomy with autotransplantation is associated with a high rate of hypoparathyroidism.

UI  - 8940709
TI  - The role of radiolabeled somatostatin analogs in adrenal imaging.
AB  - We investigated the role of radiolabeled somatostatin analogs (SAs) in adrenal imaging. We evaluated 15 patients (6 men and 9 women, mean age 47 +/- 17 years) with imaging-detected adrenal tumors. Patient population was divided into two groups on the basis of the nature of adrenal lesions. Group 1 consisted of patients with benign adrenal lesions (n = 10). Group 2 consisted of patients with malignant adrenal lesions (n = 5). Pathology examinations were obtained in 13 cases: 7 pheochromocytomas, 2 adenomas, 2 cysts, 1 carcinoma, and 1 fibro-histiocytoma. One patient had a proven diagnosis of non-small-cell lung cancer associated with the presence of a right adrenal mass. The last patient had a clinical diagnosis of Werner syndrome associated with the presence of a large left adrenal mass. All patients underwent scientigraphic studies using radiolabeled SAs, of which indium-111 (In-111) pentetreotide was used in 11 cases and technetium-99m (Tc-99m)-labeled peptides (P-587 or P-829) were used in the remaining four cases. No significant labeled SAs uptake was observed in the majority (8 of 10, 80%) of the benign adrenal lesions (Group 1); however, increased uptake was found in two benign pheochromocytomas. Conversely, significant labeled SAs uptake was observed in the majority (4 of 5, 80%) of the malignant adrenal lesions (Group 2); however, the last lesion (carcinoma) did not show abnormal uptake. Results of this study show that the majority of benign adrenal tumors do not concentrate radiolabeled SAs; conversely, the majority of malignant adrenal lesions show significant SAs uptake, suggesting the presence of somatostatin receptors. This finding may allow the use of somatostatin as a treatment agent in malignant adrenal tumors. Thus, the main role of labeled SAs in adrenal imaging consists of lesion characterization rather than tumor detection and localization.

UI  - 8875751
TI  - Medullary thyroid cancer: analyses of survival and prognostic factors and the role of radiation therapy in local control.
AB  - Records of 73 patients with medullary thyroid cancer were reviewed to assess prognostic factors and the role of external beam radiation therapy. Patients were treated between 1954 and 1992. The median age was 49 years (range 15-85), M:F ratio 1.6:1, and the median follow-up was 7.9 years. (2.5-34.6). The primary tumor size was < 1 cm in 10%, 1-4 cm in 53%, and > 4 cm in 37%. Multifocality was noted in 32%, and 23% had metastasis at presentation. Eight patients presented with inoperable tumors, 40% had gross, and 37% microscopic residual disease postthyroidectomy. Extraglandular extension was present in 56%, and 74% had pathologically involved lymph nodes. Treatment was by total or near total thyroidectomy in 41 patients; 37 had a lymph node dissection. Forty-six patients were irradiated, the dose of radiation ranging from 20 to 75.5 Gy; median was 40 Gy, treatment time median was 28 days and the median number of fractions was 20. The overall cause specific survival (CSS) was 70% and 57% at 5 and 10 years, respectively. In a univariate analysis, the following factors predicted for lower CSS: age as a continuous variable (p = 0.003), male gender (p = 0.008), presence of distant metastasis (p < 0.0001), lymph node involvement (p = 0.03), gross residual disease (p < 0.0001), tumor size > 4 cm (p = 0.05), extraglandular invasion (p < 0.004), vascular invasion (p = 0.007), diarrhea (p < .0007), and abnormal postoperative calcitonin (p = 0.02). On multivariate analysis only two factors were significant: the presence of extraglandular invasion, and postoperative gross residual disease. There was no difference in local/regional relapse free rate between patients receiving external radiation and those that did not, but in 40 high risk patients (microscopic residual disease, extraglandular invasion, or lymph node involvement), the local/regional relapse free rate was 86% at 10 years with postoperative external beam radiation (25 patients), and 52% for those with no postoperative external radiation (p = 0.049). To optimize local/regional tumor control, we therefore continue to advise external beam radiation in patients at high risk of local/regional relapse.

UI  - 8862222
TI  - Mechanisms of orthostatic hypotension and tachycardia in patients with pheochromocytoma.
AB  - We have explored the pathophysiological mechanisms of orthostatic hypotension and orthostatic tachycardia, found to be present in 83% and 61% respectively of 18 patients with subsequently proven pheochromocytoma. Orthostatic increases in plasma norepinephrine (NE) concentrations were significantly greater in the patients than in normal control subjects. Intravenous infusions of NE at 1, 2, 4, 8, and 16 micrograms/min induced similar increases in plasma NE levels but smaller increments in systolic and diastolic BP in the pheochromocytoma patients than in normal control subjects. This was reflected by a significantly greater increment in plasma NE concentration required to raise systolic BP by 15 mm Hg and diastolic BP by 7 mm Hg in the pheochromocytoma patients than in the normal subjects (P < .05 and P < .01, respectively). Measurements of venous contractile responses to locally infused NE by the dorsal hand vein (LVDT) technique revealed significantly reduced slopes of the regressions of log NE infusion rate on change in venous diameter in the pheochromocytoma patients compared with normal subjects. The results indicate reduced responsiveness of the vasculature to NE in patients with pheochromocytoma, probably due to down-regulation of alpha-adrenergic receptors resulting from persistent elevation of the physiological agonist NE. This was shown by other authors to be present in circulating platelets. The pathophysiological importance of the subnormal venous responses to the orthostatic hypotension and tachycardia in the patients were supported by the finding that the orthostatic changes were corrected by lower body compression to 45 mm Hg with a MAST pressure suit.

UI  - 8755848
TI  - [Evaluation of blood rheology indices in patients with pheochromocytoma].
AB  - Investigated group consisted of 28 patients (21 female and 7 male) with pheochromocytoma in mean age of 39.9 +/- 13 years, while control group comprised 25 healthy volunteers in mean age 36.0 +/- 7.2 years. Following parameters were determined: plasma and blood viscosity, erythrocyte and platelets aggregation, erythrocyte deformability, hematocrit, beta-thromboglobulin plasma concentration, plasma fibrinogen concentration, lipids concentration, noradrenaline, adrenaline, serotonin, neuropeptide Y plasma concentrations. Plasma fibrinogen and beta-thromboglobulin were increased in pheochromocytoma before surgery after pharmacological treatment and also after excision of the tumor. Whereas altered erythrocyte deformability before any treatment, only. Plasma neuropeptide Y concentration was higher in pheochromocytoma before surgery and after pharmacological treatment. There was no correlation between plasma catecholamines, plasma fibrinogen, beta-thromboglobulin, and erythrocyte deformability. Our results suggest that rheological abnormalities observed in patients with pheochromocytoma may contribute to vascular complications in this subjects. Sympathetic nervous system seems to influence indirectly observed rheological abnormalities.

UI  - 8747495
TI  - Does plasma neuropeptide-Y immunoreactivity in patients with pheochromocytoma depend on hormonal activity of the tumor?
AB  - 

UI  - 8541435
TI  - [Quantitative assessment of catecholamine secretion as a rational principle of anesthesia management in pheochromocytoma surgery].
AB  - There were positive correlations between plasma catecholamine concentrations, systolic blood pressure values, and infusion rates of sodium nitroprusside. The comparison of the two anaesthetic techniques resulted in a significant reduction of antihypertensive therapy and more stable haemodynamics in patients with total intravenous anaesthesia. However, the beneficial effect of this anaesthesia regimen has to be proven on a larger basis of patients in a randomized manner.

UI  - 7595173
TI  - Pheochromocytoma in multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2: European study. The Euromen Study Group.
AB  - Mean age at diagnosis of pheo was 39.5 years (range 14-68 years) in MEN 2A and 32.4 years (range 15-41 years) in MEN 2B patients. Pheo occurred first in 25.1% of the cases (2-15 years before diagnosis of MTC) and after MTC in 40.2% (2-11 years). In other cases (34.7%), MTC and pheo were diagnosed at the same time. Involvement was bilateral in 67.8% of cases. Malignancy was only 4%. Thirty-nine deaths occurred in these 300 patients, 64.1% were linked in pheo, 23.1% to MTC and 12.8% to other causes. Surgery was unilateral in 39.7% of the cases and bilateral adrenalectomy was the first procedure in 48.4%. A bilateral adrenalectomy in two steps had to be done in 11.9% of cases. In conclusion, these results justify systematic and prolonged biochemical screening of pheo during follow-up of MTC and address some questions about the best mode of surgery.

UI  - 7559889
TI  - Regional release and removal of catecholamines and extraneuronal metabolism to metanephrines.
AB  - Norepinephrine (NE) and epinephrine (E) are metabolized extraneuronally by catechol-O-methyl-transferase to the metanephrines (MNs), normetanephrine (NMN) and metanephrine (MN). Subjects in this study received infusions of tritium-labeled NE and E. Concentrations of MNs and catecholamines were measured in plasma flowing into and out of the heart, forearm, lungs, kidneys, mesenteric organs (gastrointestinal tract, spleen, and pancreas), liver, and adrenals to examine the regional production of MNs from circulating and locally released catecholamines. NE spillover from mesenteric organs and kidneys accounted for 64% of the spillover from all tissues. There was detectable spillover of E from most extraadrenal tissues, but 91% was from the adrenals. The production of MNs from locally released and circulating catecholamines varied widely among tissues. The liver made the largest contribution to removal of circulating NE (57%) and E (32%) and the largest contribution to the production of NMN (54%) and MN (37%) from metabolism of circulating catecholamines. In all other tissues more NMN was produced from locally released than from circulating NE. Thus, the metabolism of circulating NE was responsible for only 19% of the total production of NMN. An even smaller portion (6%) of plasma MN was derived from metabolism of circulating E. Most plasma MN (91%) was produced within the adrenals, which also provided the largest single source (23%) of NMN. The regional variation in extraneuronal production of MNs indicates considerable heterogeneity in how circulating and locally released catecholamines are handled by different tissues. The substantial contribution of the adrenals to the production of MNs explains the extraordinary sensitivity of these metabolites for the diagnosis of pheochromocytoma.

UI  - 7778821
TI  - Plasma metanephrines in the diagnosis of pheochromocytoma.
AB  - Normal plasma concentrations of metanephrines exclude the diagnosis of pheochromocytoma, whereas normal plasma concentrations of catecholamines and normal urinary excretion of metanephrines do not. Tests for plasma metanephrines are more sensitive than tests for plasma catecholamines or urinary metanephrines for the diagnosis of pheochromocytoma.

UI  - 7674577
TI  - [The efficacy of early 123I-MIBG scintigraphy for pheochromocytoma diagnosis].
AB  - Early scintigraphy, that obtained 6 hours after intravenous administration of a low dose of 123I-metaiodobenzylguanidine (111 MBq) was evaluated for diagnostic efficacy. The accumulation of 123I-MIBG in the tumor masses of nine patients with pheochromocytoma and one patient with cortical adenoma were noted. The smallest pheochromocytoma visualized was 3 cm in diameter. The hepatic uptake of this radiolabeled compound was helpful to understand the anatomical position of the abnormal uptake. Three of five postoperative cases of pheochromocytoma showed uptake in the metastasis in the skeleton or recurrences in the neck or contralateral adrenal gland. No ectopic pheochromocytoma was found in the pelvic cavity. Faint accumulation in the normal medulla was noted in 45% of the cases. The present results demonstrate that superior images can be obtained in scintigrams takes 6 hours after administration of a lower dose of 123I-MIBG.

UI  - 8582113
TI  - Laparoscopic adrenalectomy for adrenal tumours causing hypertension and for 'incidentalomas' of the adrenal on computerized tomography scanning.
AB  - 1. In a 19 month period from June 1993 to December 1994, 60 patients (mean age 54.8 +/- 1.5 years s.e.m.; 32 males, 28 females) underwent unilateral laparoscopic adrenalectomy by one of us (JCR) for the treatment of hypertension due to primary aldosteronism (n = 48), phaeochromocytoma (n = 3) and cortisol-producing adenoma (n = 1) or to remove adrenal massess incidentally discovered on abdominal computerized tomography scanning ('incidentaloma') performed for other reasons (seven adenomas without biochemical evidence of excessive steroid hormone or catecholamine secretion and one carcinoma autonomously producing cortisol). 2. Compared with conventional open procedures, laparoscopic adrenalectomy was associated with reduced recovery time and a low complication rate (one pulmonary embolus and one port site incisional hernia). 3. Operation time with experience approximates that of open procedures (60 min), but is significantly longer in obese than in non-obese patients, and in males than in females. 4. Patients with adrenal causes of hypertension were cured or significantly improved by laparoscopic unilateral adrenalectomy. 5. Because of our concern regarding malignant potential of incidentalomas and high patient acceptance of laparoscopic techniques, we have reduced our size criteria for removal of incidentalomas.

UI  - 7662252
TI  - Factitious pheochromocytoma: novel mimickry by Valsalva maneuver and clues to diagnosis.
AB  - Factitious pheochromocytoma usually occurs in patients surreptitiously ingesting adrenergic medications. We encountered a case of factitious pheochromocytoma where in the subject mimicked hemodynamic (profound hypertension) and biochemical (plasma catecholamine elevation) manifestations of the illness by consciously altering autonomic function with Valsalva maneuver. Clues to this presentation included visible performance of Valsalva maneuver, marked disparity between blood pressures recorded in the presence and absence of the subject's knowledge, normal urinary catecholamine and metabolite excretion, and normal plasma chromogranin A. We reproduced, in part, the hemodynamic and biochemical manifestations of this presentation with Valsalva maneuver in healthy subjects.

UI  - 7726678
TI  - Surgical management of cardiac pheochromocytoma. Resection versus transplantation.
AB  - Surgical resection of cardiac pheochromocytomas can be performed successfully. However, resection of lesions that aggressively invade adjacent myocardium is associated with significant mortality and inadequate control of the neoplasm. Cardiac transplantation should be available as an option before embarking on resection, and it should be performed if mandated by intraoperative findings.

UI  - 7854778
TI  - Immunoendocrine therapy with low-dose subcutaneous interleukin-2 plus melatonin of locally advanced or metastatic endocrine tumors.
AB  - Recent evidence has shown that endocrine tumors are under an endocrine and an immune regulation, and that biotherapies with interferon or the long-acting somatostatin analog octreotide may be effective in the control of tumor growth and clinical symptomatology. Within the biotherapies of tumors, interleukin-2(IL-2) has appeared to play an essential role in the antitumor immune response. Despite its important antitumor role, very few studies have been carried out to investigate the possible use of IL-2 in the treatment of advanced endocrine tumors. Its potential toxicity would represent the main limiting factor for the clinical experiments with IL-2. Our previous studies have shown that the pineal hormone melatonin (MLT) may amplify the antitumor activity of IL-2, either through immunomodulating mechanisms or through a direct cytostatic activity by inhibiting tumor growth factor production. On this basis, we have performed a phase II pilot study with low-dose IL-2 plus MLT in 14 patients with untreatable endocrine tumors because of disseminated disease, lack of response to previous standard biotherapies or chemotherapies, or tumors for whom no effective therapy is available. Thyroid cancers, carcinoid and endodrine pancreatic tumors were the most frequent neoplasms. IL-2 was given at 3 million IU/day s.c. at 8 p.m. for 6 days/week for 4 weeks, corresponding to one cycle. MLT was given orally at 40 mg/day at 8 p.m. every day. In nonprogressed patients, a second cycle was given after a 21-day rest period. Patients were considered as evaluable when they received at least one complete cycle, and 12 patients were fully evaluable. According to WHO criteria, a partial response was achieved in 3/12 (25%) patients (carcinoid tumor: 1; neuroendocrine lung tumor: 1; pancreatic islet cell tumor: 1). Another patient with gastrinoma had a more than 50% reduction of tumor markers. Toxicity was low in all patients. This preliminary study suggests that low-dose IL-2 immunotherapy in association with the pineal hormone MLT may constitute a new well-tolerated and potentially active therapy of untreatable advanced endocrine tumors.

UI  - 7758234
TI  - Short-term effects of octreotide on blood pressure and plasma catecholamines and neuropeptide Y levels in patients with phaeochromocytoma: a placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - In the present controlled conditions, short-term administration of octreotide had no antisecretory effect in patients with phaeochromocytoma.

UI  - 7770138
TI  - [Clinical experience with alpha blockers and calcium antagonists in the perioperative treatment of pheochromocytoma].
AB  - This study aims to value the efficacy of the association between alpha-blockers and calcium channel-blockers, administered per os, in the reduction of preoperative preparation in patients with phaeochromocytoma and the calcium channel-blockers utility when are administered e.v. in the control of development of arterial paroxysmal hypertension during surgical manipulations. The trial had been conducted on 5 patients which have undergone the operation, before the operation we administered per os nifedipine and phonoxybenzamine for 8 days and during the operation we administered diltiazem e.v. The association between alpha-blockers and calcium-blockers per os, has reduced the preparation stage and has controlled the pressure parameters during the preoperative treatment. When we utilized diltiazem during the operation, we haven't note a good hemodynamic stability; these results are opposed to Tokioka's. Calcium channel-blockers and alpha-blockers seem to be a good therapy in the preoperative preparation of patients with phaeochromocytomas and they seem to be able to take fastly the standard of preoperative preparation.

UI  - 7965151
TI  - Iodine-123-MIBG SPECT versus planar imaging in children with neural crest tumors.
AB  - When 123I-MIBG SPECT is used, the number of lesions detected is not increased, but there is a significant improvement in the certainty of interpretation over planar imaging.

UI  - 7960020
TI  - Clinical studies on the sites of production and clearance of circulating adrenomedullin in human subjects.
AB  - Adrenomedullin is a novel hypotensive peptide, newly discovered in pheochromocytoma. Because immunoreactive adrenomedullin is present in human plasma, adrenomedullin may play a role in regulating blood pressure. A recent report showed that human adrenomedullin mRNA is expressed not only in pheochromocytoma but also in the normal adrenal medulla, kidney, lung, and ventricle. However, whether or not these organs actually release adrenomedullin into the circulation remains unknown. To investigate the sites of production and degradation of adrenomedullin in human subjects, we obtained blood samples from various sites and measured immunoreactive adrenomedullin concentrations. In study 1, blood samples were obtained from the infrarenal inferior vena cava, suprarenal inferior vena cava, superior vena cava, right atrium, right ventricle, pulmonary artery, pulmonary capillary, left ventricle, and aorta during cardiac catheterization in 15 patients with ischemic heart disease (67 +/- 10 years). In study 2, blood samples were taken from the infrarenal inferior vena cava, suprarenal inferior vena cava, right and left renal veins, and left adrenal vein in 5 hypertensive patients (42 +/- 14 years) suspected of having renovascular hypertension. In study 3, peripheral venous blood samples were obtained in 2 patients (males, 45 and 36 years old) with pheochromocytoma at rest and during hypertensive attacks. Plasma adrenomedullin concentrations were measured by a newly developed radioimmunoassay. In study 1, there were no significant differences in plasma adrenomedullin concentrations in various sites of the right-side circulation. There was no step-up of plasma adrenomedullin levels in the coronary sinus. However, the plasma concentration of adrenomedullin in aorta was slightly but significantly lower than in pulmonary artery.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

UI  - 7837704
TI  - [Detection of neural crest tumors by 123I-MIBG scintigraphy].
AB  - From January 1993 to January 1994, scintigraphy with 123I-MIBG and/or 131I-MIBG were performed in 22 patients and their scintigraphic usefulness was evaluated. Iodine-123 MIBG and 131I-MIBG scintigrams were obtained 24 hours after injection of 222 MBq of 123I-MIBG and 48 hours after injection of 20 MBq of 131I-MIBG, respectively. In two patients with pheochromocytoma, the 123I-MIBG and 131I-MIBG scans were performed and both images were compared. In a patient with single intraadrenal pheochromocytoma, the lesion not detected with 131I-MIBG was clearly visualized with 123I-MIBG. In the other patient with multiple metastatic pheochromocytoma, much more lesions were distinctly demonstrated on the 123I-MIBG images than on the 131I-MIBG images. All of the lesions were detected with 123I-MIBG in a patient with pheochromocytoma, 3 patients with neuroblastoma and a patient with medullary thyroid cancer. Most of the normal adrenal glands (86%) were visualized on the 123I-MIBG scintigrams, in 7 patients without neural crest tumor and adrenal diseases, while 131I-MIBG scintigraphy failed to visualize normal adrenal glands in 2 hypertensive patients. The main reason for the superiority of 123I-MIBG to 131I-MIBG is considered to be as follows: 1) higher specific activity of 123I-MIBG. 2) the larger amount of 123I-MIBG used. 3) gamma ray energy of 123I is ideal for gamma camera. In conclusion, 123I-MIBG appears to be a more suitable imaging agent than 131I-MIBG in depicting neural crest tumors.

UI  - 7991904
TI  - [Adenosine triphosphate in the peroperative management of hypertensive crises and heart rate disorders in the surgical treatment of pheochromocytoma].
AB  - We found the following changes between phase 1 and phase 2, coinciding with ATP infusion: systemic arterial pressure increased 22.2%, heart rate increased 28.04% (with no cardiac arrhythmia observed in any patient), pulmonary artery pressure rose 25.35%, pulmonary capillary pressure rose 22.17%, cardiac index rose 108% while systemic vascular resistance decreased 55.82% and pulmonary vascular resistance decreased 33.96%.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

UI  - 7941759
TI  - Anaesthesia for phaeochromocytoma resection: role of thoracic epidural blockade.
AB  - Two case reports are presented of patients who underwent surgical removal of phaeochromocytoma at Goroka Base Hospital, one with the use of thoracic epidural blockade supplemented with light general anaesthesia. This patient had a much smoother perioperative anaesthetic course than the other, with minimal elevation of blood pressure during the procedure. The paper highlights the value of epidural blockade for excision of phaeochromocytoma, especially in situations where the latest recommended methods and advanced monitoring facilities are unavailable.

UI  - 8099474
TI  - Management of pheochromocytomas in patients with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2 syndromes.
AB  - Based on these data, the treatment of choice for patients with MEN 2A or MEN 2B and a unilateral pheochromocytoma is resection of only the involved gland. Substantial morbidity and significant mortality are associated with the Addisonian state after bilateral adrenalectomy.

UI  - 8460403
TI  - Accuracy of computed tomography in predicting adrenal tumor size.
AB  - We undertook a multi-institutional, retrospective study of 51 patients with adrenal tumors (pheochromocytomas, functioning and nonfunctioning cortical adenomas, cysts and carcinomas). All patients had computed tomography (CT) with a maximum of 5 millimeter cuts the week before undergoing complete adrenalectomy. Pathologists were asked to measure the tumor to the nearest 0.1 centimeter. Tumor size obtained from pathologic reports (actual size) and CT reports (estimated size) were compared. Adrenal tumors were divided into two groups on the basis of size--tumors with actual size of 6 centimeters or greater and tumors with actual size of less than 6 centimeters. Statistical analysis was performed with Newman-Keuls analysis of variance. After controlling for tumor type and for the institution at which the measurement was made, we found that CT consistently underestimated adrenal tumor size in both tumor groups. Moreover, the average, underestimated difference for tumors 6 centimeters or greater was 32 percent, but 47 percent for tumors less than 6 centimeters (p = 0.060). CT seemed to underestimate the size of small adrenal tumors more than large tumors. Because the decision to operate on solid, nonfunctioning adrenal tumors is based on tumor size and because CT is currently the standard technique used to estimate size, our findings need to be considered before undertaking surgical treatment.

UI  - 1469795
TI  - Surgical treatment of adrenal diseases at Nara Medical University and affiliated hospitals.
AB  - The effect of advanced diagnostic imaging on the surgical treatment of adrenal diseases was examined in 86 cases of adrenal disease surgically treated at the Department of Urology, Nara Medical University, and affiliated hospitals from August, 1962, to July, 1991. The number of cases included in the present study was 16 for the period before the introduction of CT (from 1962 to 1978), and 70, including 13 cases of adrenal incidental tumor, after the introduction of CT in 1979. There were no malignant tumors histopathologically, among the 13 cases of incidental tumor. Accurate localization of functioning adrenal disease was possible at a rate of 100% with angiography, including selective venous blood sampling, 98.6% with CT and 84.5% with ultrasonography. The rate was 100% with magnetic resonance imaging which was carried out on 19 cases (20 adrenal glands). Signs of malignancy were observed in the removed tissue of three cases from the pheochromocytoma group. As the diagnostic imaging technique has improved, the use of a flank approach has increased in the surgery for adrenal disease.

UI  - 1360549
TI  - [The assessment of clinical usefulness of 131I-MIBG scintigraphy for localization of tumors of sympathetic and adrenomedullary origin--a report of multicenter phase III clinical trials].
AB  - A phase III clinical study of 131I-metaiodobenzylguanidine (131I-MIBG) was performed in 66 patients with tumors of sympathetic and adrenomedullary origin, including 32 patients with suspected pheochromocytoma, 25 with suspected neuroblastoma, 7 pre- or postoperative medullary carcinoma of the thyroid and each with carcinoid and suspected Sipple's syndrome. A total of 150 sites which were confirmed for presence (72 sites) or absence (78 sites) of tumors were examined on 131I-MIBG scintigrams. True positive ratio of the scintigraphy was 84.7% (61/72) and true negative ratio was 94.9% (74/78). Positive scintigraphy was obtained in 86.5% (32/37) of pheochromocytoma, 78.6% (22/28) of neuroblastoma and 100% (6/6) of medullary carcinoma of the thyroid. Accumulation of 131I-MIBG was seen in 16.8% of normal adrenal glands. Neither adverse reactions nor abnormal laboratory findings were noted in relation to 131I-MIBG injections. Our study indicates that 131I-MIBG is a safe and clinically useful radiotracers for the visualization and localization of tumors of sympathetic and adrenomedullary origin.

UI  - 1482264
TI  - [Absence of labetalol interference on urine metanephrine determination in hypertensive patients].
AB  - The dosage of urinary catecholamines and their metabolites is a main element of diagnosis in the research of a pheochromocytoma in patients with high blood pressure. The literature reports high values of these compounds in patients treated with labetalol (an alpha/beta-blocker). An analytical interference has been evoked to explain these misleading results, which have not been observed with other beta-blockers. The goal of this work was to look for this eventual analytical interference in the dosage of urinary metanephrine by reversed phase liquid chromatography coupled with electrochemical detection, in patients with high blood pressure. Eighteen hypertensive patients, 52 +/- 14 years old, were included in the study. In 8 patients, a dosage of metanephrine, normetanephrine and creatinine on a 24 hours urine sample was performed before (D1) and 24 hours after (D3) the prescription of labetalol (200 mg twice a day). In the other group, labetalol was not prescribed but dosage was made in the same conditions. Urinary excretion of these compounds (metanephrine+normetanephrine) divided by urinary creatinine was not modified in the treated group (0.16 +/- 0.08 vs 0.14 +/- 0.04), nor in the reference group (0.17 +/- 0.08 vs 0.17 +/- 0.08). This study shows that administration of labetalol in patients with essential hypertension does not interfere with urinary metanephrine and normetanephrine determination after 48 hours of treatment. This implies that research for a pheochromocytoma is possible in patients with hypertension and receiving labetalol, by using reversed phase liquid chromatography coupled with an electrochemical detector for the dosage of urinary metanephrine and normetanephrine.

UI  - 1482250
TI  - [Pheochromocytoma, first manifestation of Von Hippel-Lindau disease: a possibility to be considered].
AB  - Von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) disorder is an autosomal dominant disease characterized by the almost constant development of hemangioblastomas in the central nervous system (cerebellum, spinal cord and retina). In addition, various types of tumors including renal cell carcinomas, pancreatic cysts and pheochromocytomas are frequently observed in VHL gene carriers. Linkage of the VHL locus to the RAF-1 oncogene on the short arm of chromosome 3 (3p25-26) has been recently reported. Pheochromocytoma is of particular interest because of the risk of inaugural malignant hypertensive crisis but especially because of a great degree of interfamily variability (from 0 to 92% of affected members in previously reported large kindreds). We have studied a French series of 25 pheochromocytoma (11 males, 14 females) in VHL affected patients. Twenty pheochromocytoma (80%) occurred in a familial context, whereas 5 (20%) were consistent with "apparent sporadic cases". The mean age at pheochromocytoma diagnosis was 27 years (5-55 years). Bilateral tumours have been documented in 13 cases (52%). The prevalence of pheochromocytoma revealing VHL was 14 out 25 (56%). In these cases, VHL diagnosis was considered up to 25 years later. In 6 cases (2 deceased) pheochromocytoma was the only manifestation of VHL. Thus, search for VHL must be systematic in the presence of pheochromocytoma, in the interest of the patients themselves and of potential at-risk family members (prevention of hypertensive crisis linked to latent tumours). Basic check-up (neurological and somatic examination, ophthalmoscopy, familial inquiry) may be completed with cerebral CT scan or MRI and abdominal ultrasonography followed, if positive or doubtful, by abdominal MRI or selective angiography.

UI  - 1823837
TI  - Treatment of malignant pheochromocytoma with [131I]metaiodobenzylguanidine: a French multicenter study.
AB  - Six Medical Centers in France were involved in a prospective study evaluating the efficacy of [131I]metaiodobenzylguanidine (131I-MIBG) in the treatment of malignant pheochromocytoma. Fifteen patients aged from 28 to 75 years bearing tumor sites demonstrating a good MIBG uptake were included in this study. Catecholamines were elevated in 13/14 cases, VMA in 9/14 and metanephrines in 13/14. Two to 11 therapeutic activities of 131I-MIBG were administered, with a mean number of therapeutic doses per patient of 4 and a mean single activity of 4.7 GBq (range 2.9 to 9.25 GBq). Seven patients were alive, and seven patients died 6 to 29 months after their first MIBG administration (mean follow-up of 36 months); 1 patient was lost to follow-up. Two patients had a partial tumor response only, 4 had a hormonal response only, and 3 had both a partial tumor response and a hormonal response (complete in 2 cases). Six patients did not respond to the treatment, 4 of them died. Of the 9 responding patients, 4 relapsed, 3 of whom died subsequently. Haematological toxicity was always transient and mild, except in 1 case.

UI  - 2028712
TI  - Clinical evaluation of new assays for determination of serum calcitonin concentrations.
AB  - In order to test the clinical usefulness of new commercially available kits for determination of calcitonin serum concentrations, we investigated the family (N = 10) of a patient with medullary thyroid carcinoma and bilateral pheochromocytoma including his affected son, 10 athyreotic patients, totally thyroidectomized for non-medullary thyroid cancer, and 4 normal volunteers. Pentagastrin tests were performed in all subjects. Serum calcitonin levels before and after pentagastrin were determined by 4 kits. Kits A and B are immunoradiometric assays of the sandwich-type, kits C and D are radioimmunoassays, D being the one hitherto routinely used. Our results show that the new assays (kits A, B and C) have a better diagnostic accuracy in screening for medullary thyroid cancer than the RIA (kit D), hitherto used, where basal values overlapped with normals. Although basal values of normals were mostly near the detection limit of all 4 kits, kits A and B were sensitive enough to detect stimulation of calcitonin secretion by pentagastrin in all subjects with intact thyroid glands and kit C in most of them. The lack of increase in calcitonin after pentagastrin observed by kits A, B and C in athyreotic patients suggests deficiency of secretion of this hormone. Only kit D was unable to show this deficiency.

UI  - 1991814
TI  - Use of m-[131I]iodobenzylguanidine in the treatment of malignant pheochromocytoma.
AB  - The efficacy and safety of m-[131I]iodobenzylguanidine ([131I]MIBG) were assessed in 15 patients with malignant pheochromocytomas in a nonrandomized, single arm trial, in which patients were treated with [131I]MIBG (SA, 740 megabequerel/mg) every 3 months. Seven of these patients had bone and soft tissue metastases, 4 had only soft metastases, and 4 had only bone metastases. The follow-up period ranged from 6-54 months; the number of doses ranged from 2-11, with 2.9 (78.4 mCi) to 9.25 gigabequerel (GBq) (250 mCi)/administration and a cumulative activity from 11.1-85.90 GBq (300-2322 mCi). The absorbed cumulative dose in tumors ranged from 12-155 Gy. A beneficial effect of the treatment was observed in 9 patients (60%). No complete remission of the disease was observed. Seven patients died during the study, among whom 4 never responded to the treatment. Seven had hormonal responses (4 complete and 3 partial), with a duration ranging from 5-48 months. Among these patients, 4 relapsed, and 3 died within 3 months. Five patients had partial tumoral responses mainly located in soft tissues and for a duration ranging from 29-54 months. All patients with a hormonal response had objective improvement in clinical status and blood pressure. There was no clear-cut relationship between the cumulative dose and the responses. The main side-effect observed in 1 patient with widespread bone metastases after three doses (12.9 GBq) was a pancytopenia, which resolved after treatment was discontinued. This study suggests that repeated [131I]MIBG treatment could be effective in patients with advanced malignant pheochromocytoma.

UI  - 1962798
TI  - Functional relationships between platelet alpha 2-adrenoceptors and sympathetic nerve activity in clinical hypertensive states.
AB  - Tritiated yohimbine binding was used to estimate platelet membrane alpha 2-adrenoceptor characteristics in normal subjects (n = 12) and patients with essential hypertension (n = 30), primary hyperaldosteronism (n = 10) and phaeochromocytoma (n = 10). There was a 20-fold increase in mean levels of resting norepinephrine and epinephrine in the phaeochromocytoma group. Total binding sites (Bmax) and dissociation constant (Kd) for 3H-yohimbine did not differ significantly among the four groups. Following curative surgery for phaeochromocytoma, plasma catecholamine levels were normalized but the Bmax remained unchanged. Following surgery for primary hyperaldosteronism, levels of plasma norepinephrine rose but Bmax was not changed. In all but the phaeochromocytoma patients, Bmax values correlated positively (r = 0.437, n = 48, P less than 0.01) with resting plasma norepinephrine. A significant negative correlation was observed between the change in plasma norepinephrine in response to postural change and resting Bmax. Treatment for 2-4 weeks with guanabenz or bethanidine induced a parallel fall in both Bmax and plasma norepinephrine. Treatment with reserpine was followed by a comparable fall in plasma norepinephrine, but Bmax values were unchanged. The findings support the view that platelet alpha 2-adrenoceptor density is functionally regulated in parallel with sympathetic nerve activity rather than circulating catecholamine levels, although it is not known which neuronal substance(s) may participate in this regulation.

UI  - 1978640
TI  - Surgical management of pheochromocytoma with the use of metyrosine.
AB  - Despite recommended preoperative preparation with alpha-adrenergic blockers, severe hemodynamic instability may occur during operations to resect pheochromocytoma. We combined the alpha-blocker phenoxybenzamine with the tyrosine hydroxylase inhibitor metyrosine in an attempt to better manage the hypertension of patients with pheochromocytoma undergoing surgical resection. This report reviews the cases of 25 consecutive patients undergoing surgery for known intra-abdominal pheochromocytoma. Each patient had elevated serum or urine levels of catecholamines or their metabolites. Nineteen patients were prepared before operation with phenoxybenzamine and metyrosine and six patients were given phenoxybenzamine alone. There were no significant differences in maximum, minimum, or mean blood pressure before or after tumor resection between patients who received metyrosine and those who did not. However careful review suggested that those who received metyrosine had more severe disease as judged by biochemical criteria. Study of selected patients matched for age and severity of disease suggested that the intraoperative blood pressure management of patients prepared with phenoxybenzamine and metyrosine was facilitated. In addition metyrosine-prepared patients lost less blood and required less volume replacement during surgery than did non-metyrosine-prepared patients. There were no apparent differences in postoperative fluid requirements. Although the study is not a prospective randomized trial, a retrospective review of patients managed with the combination of phenoxybenzamine and metyrosine suggests that surgery to resect pheochromocytoma can be better performed with both drugs than with phenoxybenzamine alone. The combination regimen appears to result in better blood pressure control, less blood loss, and the need for less intraoperative fluid replacement than does the traditional method of single-agent alpha-adrenergic blockade.

UI  - 1973879
TI  - [The importance of high-dose alpha-receptor blockade for blood volume and hemodynamics in pheochromocytoma].
AB  - This prospective clinical study evaluates the possible beneficial effects of increased phenoxybenzamine dosage in the preoperative treatment of patients with pheochromocytoma. For this purpose total blood volume (TBV) prior to and after treatment with phenoxybenzamine and hemodynamic changes during surgery were determined in two groups of patients: group I (n = 12) received a mean dosage of 140 mg, group II (n = 12) 270 mg/day. The mean TBV in group I showed no changes after treatment with phenoxybenzamine, while the TBV in group II increased by 5.6 ml/kg body weight, corresponding to an increase in plasma volume (PV) of 10.2%. These changes were not significant, however. The intraoperative vasodilator requirement for the treatment of catecholamine induced hypertension during tumor manipulation was significantly less for group II: total nitroprusside administration averaged 8.7 mg in group I and 0.8 mg in group II (P less than 0.0005). Patients in group I received a total of 2.6 mg nitroglycerin compared with only 0.5 mg for patients in group II (P less than 0.005). In conclusion, preoperative treatment of patients with pheochromocytoma with increased dosages of phenoxybenzamine is beneficial to intraoperative management by decreasing hemodynamic instability due to tumor manipulation and following resection. This treatment was effective for preventing complications such as excessive tachycardia, cardiac arrhythmias, hypertensive crises, or left ventricular failure.

UI  - 2904751
TI  - Doxazosin: a newly developed, selective alpha 1-inhibitor in the management of patients with pheochromocytoma.
AB  - Although surgical removal is the therapy of choice in patients with pheochromocytoma, medical management is necessary in the preoperative preparation of these patients and in inoperable cases. An alpha-adrenoceptor-blocking agent is routinely used as initial therapy to control hypertension, with a beta-blocker used as a second-step agent to control tachycardia when indicated. Doxazosin, a selective alpha 1-inhibitor used as an antihypertensive agent for the reduction of coronary heart disease risk in hypertensive patients, appears to be a good agent to control blood pressure with minimal changes in heart rate. The aim of this study was to assess the antihypertensive efficacy and safety of doxazosin when used alone or in conjunction with a beta-blocker in 24 patients with pheochromocytoma. Overall excellent or good antihypertensive efficacy was assessed by physicians in 19 of 24 patients (79.2%) enrolled in the study. Doxazosin monotherapy was effective in eight of 12 patients (66.7%), and combined therapy with a beta-blocker was effective in 11 of 12 patients (91.7%). The mean pulse rate remained constant throughout therapy. Adverse reactions were minor and transient and occurred in only three patients. Urinary and plasma catecholamine levels tended to decrease or remained unchanged during doxazosin therapy. There were no clinically hazardous abnormalities or problems in hematologic and biochemical laboratory data. Overall, doxazosin was considered very useful or useful in 83.3% of patients. In conclusion, doxazosin appears to be an excellent agent for the management of hypertension associated with pheochromocytoma.

UI  - 3744473
TI  - Effect of verapamil on catecholamine secretion by human pheochromocytoma.
AB  - 

UI  - 3003144
TI  - Opioid modulation of normal and pathological human chromaffin tissue.
AB  - To evaluate whether opioid receptor blockade might modulate sympathetic-adrenal activity, we studied the effects of placebo or naloxone administration on plasma catecholamine (CA) levels in a group of 13 normal subjects and 15 hypertensive patients suspected to have a pheochromocytoma. Diagnostic evaluation confirmed the presence of pheochromocytoma in 9 patients. Among these, 4 had a unilateral epinephrine (E)-secreting tumor, 3 had bilateral E-secreting tumors due to multiple endocrine adenomatosis type IIa, and 2 had a unilateral norepinephrine (NE)-secreting tumor. In each subject studied, CA secretion was evaluated by calculating the area (0-30 min) under the plasma hormone curves after placebo or naloxone administration. In normal subjects naloxone caused a significant increase (P less than 0.005) of E secretion, whereas NE did not change. Similarly, in the group of hypertensive patients, E secretion increased after naloxone (P less than 0.01). In pheochromocytoma patients naloxone caused a significant increase in E (P less than 0.05) and NE (P less than 0.01) secretion from E-producing tumors but no increase in the patients with NE-secreting pheochromocytomas. The study suggests that CA secretion from normal and pathological chromaffin tissue is modulated by endogenous opioids; this modulation seems particularly evident in patients with E-secreting pheochromocytoma.

UI  - 3937508
TI  - [Nifedipine as a vasodilator antihypertensive with a rapid action].
AB  - On occasion, blood pressure rises so precipitously and severily, or the clinical setting in which hypertension occurs is so critical, that prompt pressure lowering becomes crucial to prevent disabling, or even lethal complications. Such hypertensive emergencies more commonly complicate the accelerated phase of untreated or poorly treated hypertension of various etiologies. There is also a group of conditions that qualify as hypertensive emergencies not so much because of the actual height of the pressure, but rather because of complicating disorders that make even moderate pressure elevation harmful. These include aortic dissection, intracranial bleeding and acute left ventricular failure. Two fundamental concepts in the management of hypertensive emergencies are: immediate and effective therapy is required and takes precedence over time-consuming diagnostic procedures; the choice of the drugs will depend on how their time course of action and hemodynamic and metabolic effects meet the needs of the clinical situation. It is well proven that nifedipine reduces Ca-dependent vascular smooth muscle tone by direct interference with transmembrane Ca supply and thereby counteracts every kind of contractile tension development of the vascular wall: the higher the wall tension, the easier relaxation in induced by a given concentration of the compound. Because of this, it has become quite clear from recent studies that: nifedipine is a potent antihypertensive agent.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

UI  - 3874774
TI  - Comparison of phentolamine and urapidil in controlling acute intra-operative hypertension in patients subjected to coronary artery bypass surgery.
AB  - Intra-operative hypertensive episodes are a frequent problem in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting. The haemodynamic effects of the alpha-adrenergic blocking drugs phentolamine and urapidil, two alpha-adrenergic blocking drugs with a different alpha-receptor subtype specificity, when used to control intra-operative hypertension were evaluated. Ten patients received phentolamine (about 25 micrograms kg-1 min-1) and ten patients received urapidil (about 100 micrograms kg-1 min-1) to return arterial blood pressure to control levels. Both drugs decreased arterial pressure to baseline values within 2-3 minutes by reducing the elevated systemic vascular resistance. Treatment with phentolamine was accompanied by a marked increase in heart rate with a concomitant increase in cardiac index and the rate-pressure product. Urapidil caused no change in heart rate, but the cardiac index increased. Urapidil lowered the rate-pressure product significantly. Both drugs reduced mean pulmonary artery and pulmonary capillary wedge pressures. The different selectivity of phentolamine and urapidil to alpha 1-and alpha 2-adrenergic receptors induces the diverse haemodynamic effects. We conclude that the use of urapidil is the superior regimen when an alpha-adrenergic blocking agent is favoured as a vasodilator.

UI  - 6237229
TI  - Chemotherapy trials in malignant pheochromocytoma: report of two patients and review of the literature.
AB  - Two patients with metastatic pheochromocytoma received chemotherapy with 5-fluorouracil, cyclophosphamide, and streptozotocin. A biochemical response occurred in one instance. A review of the literature and the results in the reported patients indicate cyclophosphamide and/or streptozotocin may have activity in this neoplasm.

UI  - 6656240
TI  - HPLC for urinary catecholamines and metanephrines with alpha-methyldopa.
AB  - In five healthy selected volunteers with normal blood pressure and one pheochromocytoma patient, high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) has been evaluated, with electrochemical detection for quantitation of urinary catecholamines and metanephrines during administration of the antihypertensive, alpha-methyldopa. The clinical usefulness of HPLC is compared with that of the conventional assay method--the trihydroxyindole (THI)-fluorometric procedure. The THI fluorometric method is known to suffer from true false-positive interference as a result of its inability to differentiate between alpha-methyldopa, its primary metabolic derivatives, and the structurally similar endogenous catecholamines. It is shown that the HPLC separation methodology yields accurate, reproducible results devoid of interference from the presence of alpha-methyldopa. Free urinary excretion rates of epinephrine, norepinephrine, and dopamine were elevated by alpha-methyldopa, P less than 0.001, for epinephrine, norepinephrine, and dopamine when measured by the trihydroxyindole technique but not with high performance liquid chromatography. With alpha-methyldopa treatment, urinary normetanephrine excretion rates were slightly increased, P less than 0.05, by fluorometric analysis and slightly decreased. P less than 0.05, when measured by HPLC. Of added interest, the formation of the normetanephrine analog of alpha-methyldopa, previously undetected, is suggested. Slightly elevated metanephrine levels are seen by the THI-fluorometric method in the presence of alpha-methyl metanephrines. Establishing that the HPLC assay procedure is suitable for clinical diagnosis of pheochromocytoma, despite the presence of alpha-methyldopa, makes it unnecessary to discontinue use of this antihypertensive in screening for pheochromocytoma.

UI  - 6888268
TI  - Plasma norepinephrine and epinephrine responses to glucagon in patients with suspected pheochromocytomas.
AB  - Plasma norepinephrine and epinephrine levels were measured before and after glucagon administration in 28 patients suspected of having a pheochromocytoma: three patients were subsequently found to have tumors. The norepinephrine response predicted the presence or absence of a tumor in 27 of the 28 patients. Epinephrine levels doubled, on the average, in patients who did not have pheochromocytomas, and were not useful in distinguishing the patients with or without tumors. A comparison of the response to glucagon and a placebo indicated that changes in plasma catecholamine levels were hormone-related and not the result of side-effects accompanying injection. The glucagon provocation test, with measurement of plasma norepinephrine and epinephrine levels, may be a useful adjunctive tool for evaluating patients suspected of having a pheochromocytoma when performed according to a standardized protocol and interpreted in relation to appropriate controls.

UI  - 6136843
TI  - Phaeochromocytoma and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy: apparent suppression of symptoms and noradrenaline secretion by calcium-channel blockade.
AB  - A 44-year-old woman with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and a noradrenaline-secreting phaeochromocytoma is described. She experienced as great improvement in cardiovascular symptoms during double-blind treatment with the calcium-channel blocker nifedipine compared with the placebo period. Symptom relief on nifedipine therapy was associated with a pronounced decline in elevated urinary noradrenaline levels. This observation suggests that calcium-channel blockers interfere with the release of noradrenaline from phaeochromocytoma tissue and thus may be beneficial in patients with phaeochromocytoma.

UI  - 6340865
TI  - [Clinical effects of labetalol on pheochromocytoma].
AB  - 

UI  - 6118079
TI  - ORG NC45 (Norcuron) and pheochromocytoma: a report of three cases.
AB  - 

UI  - 6779673
TI  - [Nitroglycerin and anaesthesia in phaeochromocytoma (author's transl)].
AB  - Six patients who have undergone surgery for phaeochromacytoma have been separated in 2 groups. In group I (n = 3) a nitroglycerin infusion of 7.8 microgram . kg-1 . mn-1 has been used before the removal of the tumor and no vasodilator drug was infused in group II. During the dissection, mean arterial pressure was significantly lower in group I (129 +/- 12 mm Hg) than in group II (172 +/- 17 mm Hg) (p < 0.05). After removal of the tumor the decrease in mean arterial pressure was lower in group I than in group II. In group I the maximal rise in mean arterial pressure (73 +/- 18 mm Hg) was significantly reduced compared to group II (134 +/- 20 mm Hg). These results show that nitroglycerin is an interesting substance to decrease the variations of arterial blood pressure and this effect is important to prevent cardiac complications during and after surgery.

UI  - 974527
TI  - Comparative study of ultrasound, 131I-19-iodocholesterol scintigraphy, and aortography in localising adrenal lesions.
AB  - Twenty-seven consecutive patients with endocrinological disease necessitating adrenal surgery underwent blind preoperative investigation with ultrasound, renal aortography, and adrenocortical scintigraphy for an adrenal lesion. Nine patients had pituitary-dependent Cushing's syndrome, five had pituitary-independent Cushing's syndrome, four had an adrenocortical androgenic excess, and nine had a preoperative diagnosis of phaeochromocytoma. The predictive value of preoperative ultrasound was 100% for a positive finding and 79% for a negative result. Preoperative aortography had a predictive value of 83% for a positive finding and 64% for a negative result; and the predictive value of adrenocortical scintigraphy was 100% for a positive finding and 85% for a negative finding. In localising biochemically suspected adrenal lesions ultrasound should be the first choice, since it is rapid, noninvasive, cheap, and reasonably accurate. Adrenocortical scintigraphy has a similar diagnostic value, especially in Cushing's syndrome, but it is time consuming. Nevertheless, it may be preferable for diagnosing small glucocorticoid-secreting adenomas. Aortography should be reserved for cases with inconclusive diagnoses and suspected extra-adrenal phaeochromocytomas.

UI  - 179553
TI  - Serum dopamine-beta-hydroxylase as an indicator of sympathetic activity and primary hypertension.
AB  - 

UI  - 802639
TI  - Plasma noradrenaline concentration and blood pressure in essential hypertension, phaeochromocytoma and depression.
AB  - 1. Mean plasma noradrenaline concentration was elevated in forty-four patients with established essential hypertension. Eighteen of the hypertensive patients had resting plasma noradrenaline concentrations in the normal range. 2. Patients with endogenous depression had higher mean plasma noradrenaline concentrations but significantly lower blood pressure than patients with essential hypertension. 3. Patients with phaeochromocytoma had plasma noradrenaline concentrations twenty-eight times greater than those found in essential hypertension, but blood pressures were less than 20% higher. 4. It is concluded that excess of sympathetic drive only partly explains the level of the blood pressure in essential hypertension.

UI  - 1091401
TI  - [Tyramine test in double blind study].
AB  - 

UI  - 4369018
TI  - Plasma adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate in human hypertension.
AB  - In a previous study we observed an increase in urinary cyclic AMP in labile hypertension in the upright position and during isoproterenol infusion, in contrast to a decrease in control subjects. In the present study we measured the plasma level of cyclic AMP in control subjects and patients with various types of hypertension. We obtained the following results: (1) plasma cyclic AMP increases in response to upright posture in control subjects and hypertensive patients; (2) values of cyclic AMP in the recumbent and upright positions are comparable in control subjects and patients with essential hypertension, but are significantly higher in those with true renovascular hypertension due to bilateral renal artery stenosis; (3) propranolol inhibits the increase of plasma cyclic AMP in response to posture in control subjects, but has an opposite effect in labile hypertension where there is a further increase; (4) the rise in blood pressure in pheochromocytoma is associated with a considerable increase in plasma cyclic AMP.Present and previous data suggest that kidney handling of cyclic AMP is abnormal in hypertension, and that the specific defect may be related to the type of hypertension.

UI  - 4373824
TI  - [Hypertensive episodes triggered by sulpiride].
AB  - 

UI  - 4588186
TI  - [Hypertensive episodes initiated by sulpiride (Dogmatil)].
AB  - 

UI  - 4938132
TI  - Epinephrine: selective inhibition of the acute insulin response to glucose.
AB  - An epinephrine infusion of 6 mug/min decreased the rapid insulin response to a 5 g glucose pulse by 96% (P < 0.001) compared with the preinfusion control. In contrast when an identical epinephrine infusion was superimposed on a prolonged glucose infusion, elevated steady-state insulin levels did not decrease, but increased from 26.9 +/-6 (mean +/-SD, muU/ml) to 56.8 +/-15 muU/ml (P < 0.05) in parallel with the epinephrine-induced hyperglycemia. Thus epinephrine inhibition of insulin secretion was observed during acute but not chronic glucose stimulation. To evaluate further the insulin responses during a prolonged glucose infusion, a 5 g glucose pulse was given before and 60 min later during a concomitant epinephrine infusion. Although the acute insulin response to the first glucose pulse was observed during the elevated steady-state glucose and insulin levels associated with the glucose infusion, epinephrine again inhibited the acute insulin response to the subsequent 5 g glucose pulse by 91% (P < 0.01). Thus epinephrine appears to inhibit selectively the rapid insulin response to glucose but not to influence insulin output stimulated by prolonged hyperglycemia. These observations provide further evidence for a model of insulin secretion which includes a small storage pool available for immediate release to a glucose challenge and a more slowly responding pool regulating insulin secretion in the basal and steady state.

UI  - 4395478
TI  - Catecholamines in hypertension.
AB  - 

UI  - 4322305
TI  - The effect of tyramine, noradrenaline, and angiotensin on the blood pressure in hypertensive patients with aldosteronism and low plasma renin.
AB  - 

UI  - 4906883
TI  - [Biochemical measurement of the function of the adrenal medulla and sympathetic system in the clinic].
AB  - 

UI  - 4391518
TI  - The therapeutic role of propranolol.
AB  - 

UI  - 4891080
TI  - Pheochromocytoma: observations on mechanism of carbohydrate intolerance and abnormalities associated with development of Goldblatt kidney following removal of tumor.
AB  - 

UI  - 5783795
TI  - Sweating and peripheral blood flow in patients with phaeochromocytoma.
AB  - 

UI  - 4887168
TI  - [Double blind histamine-adrenalin test].
AB  - 

UI  - 5951811
TI  - Comparison of the histamine and tyramine hydrochloride tests in the diagnosis of pheochromocytoma.
AB  - 
