
UI  - 24733354
TI  - Reduction of inappropriate benzodiazepine prescriptions among older adults through direct patient education: the EMPOWER cluster randomized trial.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT01148186.

UI  - 24680372
TI  - Safety and efficacy of suvorexant during 1-year treatment of insomnia with subsequent abrupt treatment discontinuation: a phase 3 randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - Merck & Co Inc.

UI  - 24673043
TI  - [Efficacy comparison of different points combination in the treatment of menopausal insomnia: a randomized controlled trial].
AB  - Ear acupuncture has a better curative effect than the restore interaction between the heart and the kidney group and acupuncturing qiao mai group, it is worth of being promoted.

UI  - 24469530
TI  - Impact of sleep complaints and depression outcomes among participants in the standard medical intervention and long-term exercise study of exercise and pharmacotherapy for depression.
AB  - The aim of this study was to examine the effects of exercise and sertraline on disordered sleep in patients with major depressive disorder (MDD). Methods The Standard Medical Intervention and Long-term Exercise study randomized the patients with MDD (n = 202) to one of four arms: a) supervised exercise, b) home-based exercise, c) sertraline therapy, and d) placebo pill. Sleep disturbance was assessed with three sleep-related items from the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HAM-D) before and after 4 months of treatment. The patients were followed for 12 months to assess the prognostic value of sleep disturbance on MDD relapse and recovery.Results Comparison of the active treatment and placebo groups showed no treatment differences in HAM-D sleep complaints after 4 months (p = 0.758). However, residual insomnia symptoms after treatment were strongly associated with elevated depressive symptoms assessed by the HAM-D after 4 months ( = 0.342, p < 0.0001) and MDD relapse (odds ratio, 1.55; 95% confidence interval, 1.15-2.10; p = 0.004) assessed at 1-year follow-up (16 months after randomization). Neither exercise nor sertraline was associated with greater improvements in sleep disturbance compared with the placebo controls. However, residual symptoms of insomnia after successful treatment of MDD predicted relapse, highlighting the clinical importance of addressing insomnia in patients with MDD.

UI  - 24430033
TI  - [The results of the Russian multicenter open observational non-comparative study on the efficacy and safety of valdoxan (agomelatin) in the treatment of patients with major depressive disorder and insomnia (the VIVALDI study)].
AB  - The results of the study on the efficacy and safety of the valdoxan (agomelatine) in the treatment of patients with major depressive disorder and insomnia are presented. The study included 64 patients (mean age 45.011.7 years). Agomelatine was given in dosage of 25--50 mg for 6 weeks. The following scales were used: HAMD-21, HADS, subjective sleep characteristics scale, sleep apnea screening questionnaire, the Epworth sleepiness scale. All the patients underwent night polysomnography. The use of agomelatine led to the improvement of affective symptoms on HAMD-21 and HADS from the first week of treatment. To the last visit, clinical symptoms of depression disappeared in 29 (49.5%) patients. Simultaneously, subjective sleep quality increased from 12.23.2 to 14.74.2 points on the appropriate scale and continued to improve. Polysomnography revealed the increase in the total sleep time, the time spent in stage 2, 4 and REM sleep as well as in sleep efficiency index. The sleep latency, number of awakenings and wake time decreased during sleep. The authors conclude that the use of agomelatine in standard dose reduces affective disorders and improves night sleep in patients with depressive disorder and insomnia.

UI  - 24429965
TI  - [The formation of clinical and functional remission during the treatment of non-psychotic depression with escitalopram (lenuxin)].
AB  - The results of this study showed a high frequency of clinical remission (45.26%) during therapy of 98 patients with non-psychotic depression with escitalopram (lenuxin). However, the majority of patients (81.4%) had symptomatic remission presented with persistent isolated monosymptom of insomnia, anxiety, somatic-autonomic disorders or hypochondria spectrum. The complete recovery of social functioning (functional remission) in all areas (work, communication, family) was observed in 51.16% patients. The relationship between the severity of residual symptoms and functional remission justifies the need to include clinical and subjective indicators in a modern integrative concept of remission. The high efficacy of escitalopram (lenuxin) was combined with its favorable tolerability profile.

UI  - 24395850
TI  - Mindfulness-based stress reduction compared with cognitive behavioral therapy for the treatment of insomnia comorbid with cancer: a randomized, partially blinded, noninferiority trial.
AB  - Although MBSR produced a clinically significant change in sleep and psychological outcomes, CBT-I was associated with rapid and durable improvement and remains the best choice for the nonpharmacologic treatment of insomnia.

UI  - 24386794
TI  - [Effect of physical and psychological stress on the course of primary open angle glaucoma].
AB  - The presence of mental stress in a glaucomatous patient increases lOP values and leads to the worsening of the disease, while insomnia represents only a potential risk factor for POAG and physical exercise might even have a beneficial effect.

UI  - 24323030
TI  - Aprepitant versus dexamethasone for preventing chemotherapy-induced delayed emesis in patients with breast cancer: a randomized double-blind study.
AB  - In patients with breast cancer treated with anthracycline plus cyclophosphamide chemotherapy and receiving the same antiemetic prophylaxis for acute emesis, dexamethasone was not superior to aprepitant but instead had similar efficacy and toxicity in preventing delayed emesis.

UI  - 24319893
TI  - [Better health for body and soul].
AB  - 

UI  - 24313003
TI  - [Treatment with ramelteon for sleep disturbance in severely disabled children and young adults].
AB  - This preliminary study showed the efficacy and safety of ramelteon for sleep disturbance in severely disabled children and young adults. Further trials are necessary to determine optimal dosage and safety of ramelteon in children.

UI  - 24304629
TI  - Use of music in the treatment of insomnia: a pilot study.
AB  - The purpose of this pilot study was to evaluate the use of music to improve quality of sleep. Adults with insomnia listened to music at bedtime for 30 days. Measured by the Pittsburg Sleep Quality Index, results indicated that the use of music significantly increased sleep quality.

UI  - 24293756
TI  - Efficacy of vestipitant, a neurokinin-1 receptor antagonist, in primary insomnia.
AB  - Vestipitant improved sleep maintenance in patients with primary insomnia, with no associated next-day cognitive impairment. The effects on wake after sleep onset and total sleep time were maintained following repeated dosing.

UI  - 24285642
TI  - The caudate: a key node in the neuronal network imbalance of insomnia?
AB  - Insomnia is prevalent, severe and partially heritable. Unfortunately, its neuronal correlates remain enigmatic, hampering the development of mechanistic models and rational treatments. Consistently reported impairments concern fragmented sleep, hyper-arousal and executive dysfunction. Because fronto-striatal networks could well play a role in sleep, arousal regulation and executive functioning, the present series of studies used an executive task to evaluate fronto-striatal functioning in disturbed sleep. Patients with insomnia showed reduced recruitment of the head of the left caudate nucleus during executive functioning, which was not secondary to altered performance or baseline perfusion. Individual differences in caudate recruitment were associated with hyper-arousal severity. Seed-based functional connectivity analysis suggested that attenuated input from a projecting orbitofrontal area with reduced grey matter density contributes to altered caudate recruitment in patients with insomnia. Attenuated caudate recruitment persisted after successful treatment of insomnia, warranting evaluation as a potential vulnerability trait. A similar selective reduction in caudate recruitment could be elicited in participants without sleep complaints by slow-wave sleep fragmentation, providing a model to facilitate investigation of the causes and consequences of insomnia.

UI  - 24266336
TI  - Insomnia and periodicity of headache in an arctic cluster headache population.
AB  - Chronic insomnia and shift work seem to be common among Arctic cluster headache patients. The small number of subjects included in this study implies that conclusions should be drawn with caution, but the findings support the idea of cluster headache as a circadian rhythm disorder.

UI  - 24239455
TI  - Spectral analysis of the sleep onset period in primary insomnia.
AB  - SOI and SMI patients have different spectral characteristics in SOP, thus future studies should avoid the inclusion of mixed insomnia samples.

UI  - 24235891
TI  - Periodic leg movements are associated with reduced sleep quality in older men: the MrOS Sleep Study.
AB  - This study demonstrated that periodic leg movements are very common in older community-dwelling men and regardless of associated arousals, are associated with evidence of lighter and more fragmented sleep.

UI  - 24215302
TI  - Are changes in worry associated with treatment response in cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia?
AB  - The findings suggest that reductions in insomnia-related worry might be one process route in which cognitive behavioral therapy operates to improve insomnia symptomatology. The results are discussed in relation to theory, clinical implications, and future research.

UI  - 24210602
TI  - Sertraline and periodic limb movements during sleep: an 8-week open-label study in depressed patients with insomnia.
AB  - PLMS were increased during sertraline treatment, but only a few of the PLMS reached the significant level. This effect of sertraline on PLMS might be dosage dependent. Although the sertraline-induced PLMS did not seem to cause significant clinical disturbance, the PLMS group (PLMI 5) had a higher AI than the non-PLMS group. Thus clinicians should pay more attention to PLMS during SSRI antidepressant treatment.

UI  - 24204066
TI  - Validation of the Insomnia Severity Index in primary care.
AB  - These findings suggest that the ISI is a valid screening instrument for detecting insomnia among patients consulting in primary care settings.

UI  - 24187860
TI  - Curative effect of acupuncture and moxibustion on insomnia: a randomized clinical trial.
AB  - Acupuncture and moxibustion at Baihui (GV 20), Sishencong (EX-HN 1), Shenmai (BL 62), and Zhaohai (KI 6) significantly improved insomnia symptoms in the experiment group compared with the control group.

UI  - 24187859
TI  - Efficacy of huadananshen mistura on insomnia: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, and multi-center clinical trial.
AB  - Huadananshen mistura is an effective and generally well-tolerated hypnotic medicine for the treatment of Chinese patients with insomnia.

UI  - 24184428
TI  - Change in sleep symptoms across Cognitive Processing Therapy and Prolonged Exposure: a longitudinal perspective.
AB  - Sleep disturbance is a core component in posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Although cognitive-behavioral treatments for PTSD reduce the severity of sleep symptoms, they do not lead to complete remission. The present study examines the impact of Cognitive Processing Therapy (CPT) and Prolonged Exposure (PE) on subjective measures of sleep disturbance from treatment randomization through long-term follow-up (LTFU). Participants were 171 female rape victims with PTSD who were randomly assigned to CPT, PE, or Minimal Attention (MA). After 6-weeks, the MA group was randomized to CPT or PE. Sleep symptoms were assessed at baseline, post-MA, post-treatment, 3-months, 9-months and LTFU using the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI) and nightmare and insomnia items from the Clinician Administered PTSD Scale. Change in sleep during MA, from pre- to post-treatment for CPT and PE, and from post-treatment through LTFU was assessed using piecewise hierarchical linear modeling with the intent-to-treat sample. Controlling for medication, sleep improved during CPT and PE compared to MA, and treatment gains were maintained through LTFU. CPT and PE were equally efficacious and improvements persist over LTFU, yet, neither produced remission of sleep disturbance. Overall, sleep symptoms do not remit and may warrant sleep-specific treatments.

UI  - 24148250
TI  - The role of emotional eating and stress in the influence of short sleep on food consumption.
AB  - Short sleep duration is associated with elevated body mass index (BMI) and increased energy consumption. The present studies were conducted to determine what role emotional eating and stress might play in these relationships. The first was an exploratory questionnaire study in which sleep quality and duration were measured in conjunction with the Dutch Eating Behavior Questionnaire in 184 women. Emotional and external eating scores were significantly higher in those who reported poor sleep quality (but were not related to sleep duration). In a second study of 64 women who were provided with snacks in the laboratory under stressed and control conditions, elevated food consumption was observed in those who scored high on emotional eating and who reported short sleep (a significant stress  emotional eating  sleep duration interaction) but not in those who reported poor sleep quality. No effects were found in liking or wanting of food and few effects were found on appetite. BMI was not related to sleep duration or sleep quality in either study. The results suggest that the relationship between short sleep and elevated food consumption exists in those who are prone to emotional eating. An external stressor elevated consumption in normal sleepers to the level observed in short sleepers, however, it did not significantly elevate consumption in short sleepers. Future examinations of the effects of sleep duration and quality on food consumption should examine emotional eating status.

UI  - 24127152
TI  - Presenting symptoms in pediatric restless legs syndrome patients.
AB  - The description of presenting symptoms in children with the final diagnosis of RLS differs from that in adults. The results of this European study corroborate those from the US.

UI  - 24121097
TI  - Motivational support provided via email improves the effectiveness of internet-delivered self-help treatment for insomnia: a randomized trial.
AB  - Internet-delivered treatment is effective for insomnia, but little is known about the beneficial effects of support. The aim of the current study was to investigate the additional effects of low-intensity support to an internet-delivered treatment for insomnia. Two hundred and sixty-two participants were randomized to an internet-delivered intervention for insomnia with (n=129) or without support (n=133). All participants received an internet-delivered cognitive behavioral treatment for insomnia. In addition, the participants in the support condition received weekly emails. Assessments were at baseline, post-treatment, and 6-month follow-up. Both groups effectively ameliorated insomnia complaints. Adding support led to significantly higher effects on most sleep measures (d=0.3-0.5; p<0.05), self-reported insomnia severity (d=0.4; p<0.001), anxiety, and depressive symptoms (d=0.4; p<0.01). At the 6-month follow-up, these effects remained significant for sleep efficiency, sleep onset latency, insomnia symptoms, and depressive symptoms (d=0.3-0.5; p<0.05). Providing support significantly enhances the benefits of internet-delivered treatment for insomnia on several variables. It appears that motivational feedback increases the effect of the intervention and encourages more participants to complete the intervention, which in turn improves its effectiveness.

UI  - 24121096
TI  - Psychological treatment of hypnotic-dependent insomnia in a primarily older adult sample.
AB  - Gradual drug withdrawal was associated with substantial hypnotic reduction at posttreatment and follow-up, and withdrawal side-effects were absent. When supplemented with CBT, participants accrued incremental self-reported, but not PSG, sleep benefits.

UI  - 24070180
TI  - Evaluating the impact of treatment for sleep/wake disorders on recovery of cognition and communication in adults with chronic TBI.
AB  - These results add to a small but growing body of evidence that sleep/wake disorders associated with TBI exacerbate trauma-related cognitive, communication and mood impairments. Treatment for sleep/wake disorders may optimize recovery and outcomes.

UI  - 24055212
TI  - Efficacy and safety of rotigotine in Japanese patients with restless legs syndrome: a phase 3, multicenter, randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, parallel-group study.
AB  - Our results showed that rotigotine was effective without major safety concerns at doses of up to 3 mg/24 h in Japanese patients with RLS.

UI  - 24032187
TI  - [Efficacy observation on acupuncture prescription of regulating yin-yang and five viscera for intractable insomnia].
AB  - The acupuncture prescription of regulating yin-yang and five viscera has better effect for intractable insomnia, which could be considered as a more optimal therapy.

UI  - 24014057
TI  - A randomized controlled trial of an internet intervention for adults with insomnia: effects on comorbid psychological and fatigue symptoms.
AB  - Internet-delivered CBT-I appears to not only improve sleep but also reduce comorbid psychological and fatigue symptoms.

UI  - 23981403
TI  - The effect of a homeopathic complex on psychophysiological onset insomnia in males: a randomized pilot study.
AB  - Findings suggest that daily use of the homeopathic complex does have an effect over a 4-wk period on physiological and cognitive arousal at bedtime as well as on sleep onset latency in PI sufferers. Further research on the use of this complex for PI is warranted before any definitive conclusions can be drawn.

UI  - 23967630
TI  - [Scraping technique of stuck needle at Anmian point in the treatment of insomnia: a randomized controlled trial].
AB  - The scraping technique of stuck needle at Anmian (Extra) achieves the superior effect on insomnia as compared with the conventional acupuncture.

UI  - 23966118
TI  - Quantity and quality of nocturnal sleep affect morning glucose measurement in acutely burned children.
AB  - Hyperglycemia after severe burn injury has long been recognized, whereas sleep deprivation after burns is a more recent finding. The postburn metabolic effects of poor sleep are not clear despite reports in other populations demonstrating the association between sleep insufficiency and deleterious endocrine consequences. The aim of this study was to determine whether a relationship between sleep and glucose dynamics exists in acutely burned children. Two overnight polysomnography runs (2200 to 0600) per subject were conducted in 40 patients with a mean ( SEM) age of 9.40.7 years, 50.12.9% TBSA burn, and 43.23.6% full-thickness injury. Serum glucose was drawn in the morning (0600) immediately after the sleep test. Insulin requirements during the 24-hour period preceding the 0600 glucose measurement were recorded. Generalized linear models were used by the authors to evaluate percent time in each stage of sleep, percent wake time, total sleep time, sleep efficiency, and morning serum glucose, accounting for insulin use. Increased time awake (P = .04, linear; P = .02, quadratic) and reduced time spent in stage 1 sleep (P = .03, linear) were associated with higher glucose levels. Sleep efficiency (P = .01, linear; P = .02, quadratic) and total sleep time (P = .01 linear; P = .02, quadratic) were inversely associated with glucose level. Morning glucose levels appear to be affected by the quality and quantity of overnight sleep in children who have sustained extensive burn injuries. Future research is needed to elucidate the metabolic and neuroendocrine consequences of sleep deprivation on metabolism after burns.

UI  - 23953775
TI  - Relationship between sleep disorders and other non-motor symptoms in Parkinson's disease.
AB  - Insomnia and daytime sleepiness are extremely prevalent in PD. Depression, fatigue, cognitive impairment, cardiovascular, urinary and thermoregulatory dysfunctions may contribute to insomnia/hypersomnia. This is the first clinical study to relate cardiovascular and thermoregulatory dysfunctions with sleep in PD.

UI  - 23886347
TI  - Effects of exercise and diet interventions on obesity-related sleep disorders in men: study protocol for a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - It is expected that the improvement of sleep quality after exercise and diet intervention will be evident both in subjective and objective measures of quality of sleep. Additionally, the change of sleep quality induced by exercise and diet intervention is expected to be related to the changes in specific hormones and inflammatory biomarkers, and in the composition of gut microbiota.

UI  - 23871260
TI  - Predictors of improvement in subjective sleep quality reported by older adults following group-based cognitive behavior therapy for sleep maintenance and early morning awakening insomnia.
AB  - Participants with the greatest SE following treatment while controlling for pretreatment SE were relatively younger and had more confidence in their ability to sleep at pretreatment. These characteristics may be useful to guide clinicians when considering the use of a group-based CBT-I for sleep maintenance or early morning awakening insomnia in older adults.

UI  - 23859625
TI  - Manual-guided cognitive-behavioural therapy for insomnia delivered by ordinary primary care personnel in general medical practice: a randomized controlled effectiveness trial.
AB  - Chronic insomnia is a prevalent problem in primary health care and tends to be more serious than insomnia in the general population. These patients often obtain little benefit from hypnotics, and are frequently open to exploring various options for medical treatment. However, most general practitioners (GPs) are unable to provide such options. Several meta-analyses have shown that cognitive-behavioural therapy (CBT) for insomnia results in solid improvements on sleep parameters, and a few studies have demonstrated promising results for nurse-administered CBT in primary care. The aim of this randomized controlled study was to investigate the clinical effectiveness of manual-guided CBT for insomnia delivered by ordinary primary care personnel in general medical practice with unselected patients. Sixty-six primary care patients with insomnia were randomized to CBT or a waiting-list control group. The CBT group improved significantly more than the control group using the Insomnia Severity Index as the outcome. The effect size was high. Sleep diaries showed a significant, medium-sized treatment effect for sleep onset latency and wake time after sleep onset. However, for all measures there is a marked deterioration at follow-up assessments. Almost half of the treated subjects (47%) reported a clinically relevant treatment effect directly after treatment. It is concluded that this way of delivering treatment may be cost-effective.

UI  - 23853555
TI  - The effectiveness of light/dark exposure to treat insomnia in female nurses undertaking shift work during the evening/night shift.
AB  - The design of this study is easy to put into practice in the real world. This is the first study to document that a higher intensity and briefer duration of bright light exposure during the first half of the evening/night shift with a daytime darkness procedure performed in rotating shift work female nurses suffering from clinical insomnia could improve their insomnia, anxiety, and depression severity.

UI  - 23845104
TI  - The effects of using cognitive behavioural therapy to improve sleep for patients with delusions and hallucinations (the BEST study): study protocol for a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN 33695128.

UI  - 23797608
TI  - Efficacy of repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation in the treatment of patients with chronic primary insomnia.
AB  - This study assessed the efficacy of repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) in the treatment of patients with chronic primary insomnia. Hundred and twenty patients with chronic primary insomnia were randomly assigned to three study groups (n = 40 per group): rTMS, medication, or psychotherapy treatment (both latter as controls). The treatments proceeded for 2 weeks, after which treatment efficacies were assessed in each study group based on changes in polysomnography parameters, Pittsburgh sleep quality index, and indices of HPA and HPT axes (serum cortisol, adrenocorticotropic hormone, highly sensitive thyrotropin, free T3, and free T4). Further, the relapse and recurrence rates within 3 months after respective treatments were also measured. rTMS treatment significantly better (p < 0.05) improved stage III sleep and REM sleep cycle compared with both control groups. Further, rTMS treatment group was more advantageous in improving the indices of HPA and HPT axes (p < 0.05 vs. both control groups). In addition, the relapse and recurrence rates were also the lowest in rTMS treatment group. In conclusion, rTMS treatment is more advantageous than both medication and psychotherapy treatments in improving the sleep architecture. Further, rTMS significantly decreases the body awakening level and provides a better long-term treatment effect.

UI  - 23759035
TI  - Log in and breathe out: efficacy and cost-effectiveness of an online sleep training for teachers affected by work-related strain--study protocol for a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - German Clinical Trial Register (DRKS): DRKS00004700.

UI  - 23746600
TI  - Minimum duration of actigraphy-defined nocturnal awakenings necessary for morning recall.
AB  - Our preliminary study is the first to calculate the duration of wakefulness necessary for morning recall of nocturnal awakenings and the first to use a field-based design, allowing for the study of habitual sleep patterns at the participant's home. Further study is needed to explore if recall thresholds calculated using actigraphy can be validated against polysomnography (PSG) or be used to guide potential treatments.

UI  - 23711168
TI  - Cognitive-behavioral treatment for comorbid insomnia and osteoarthritis pain in primary care: the lifestyles randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Over 9 months, CBT of insomnia was effective for older adults with OA pain and insomnia. The addition of CBT for insomnia to CBT for pain alone improved outcomes.

UI  - 23692988
TI  - Sleep quality of benzodiazepine users in nursing homes: a comparative study with nonusers.
AB  - Our findings do not support long-term effectiveness of BZDs; long-term users slept more poorly than nonusers and were even more outspoken in users of long-acting BZDs. In future longitudinal comparative studies of sleep quality, unexplained variability needs further assessment with medical, psychologic, and institutional parameters.

UI  - 23690359
TI  - Polysomnographic study of the prevalence of sleep bruxism in a population sample.
AB  - The goal of the current study was to estimate the prevalence of sleep bruxism (SB) in the general population using a representative sample of 1,042 individuals who answered questionnaires and underwent polysomnography (PSG) examinations. After PSG, the individuals were classified into 3 groups: absence of SB, low-frequency SB, and high-frequency SB. The results indicated that the prevalence of SB, indicated by questionnaires and confirmed by PSG, was 5.5%. With PSG used exclusively as the criterion for diagnosis, the prevalence was 7.4% regardless of SB self-reported complaints. With questionnaires alone, the prevalence was 12.5%. Of the 5.5% (n = 56) with confirmed SB, 26 were classified as low-frequency SB, and 30 as high-frequency. The episodes of SB were more frequent in stage 2 sleep, and the phasic bruxism events were more frequent than tonic or mixed events in all sleep stages in individuals with SB. A positive association was observed between SB and insomnia, higher degree of schooling, and a normal/overweight body mass index (BMI). These findings demonstrate the prevalence of SB in a population sampled by PSG, the gold standard methodology in the investigation of sleep disorders, combined with validated questionnaires.

UI  - 23672055
TI  - [Study on efficacy of zaoren anshen capsules in treating senile insomnia and changes in its hemorheology].
AB  - Zaoren Anshen capsules have similar effect in treating senile insomnia with alprazolam, with less adverse reactions. They are so suitable for patients with senile insomnia that they can improve hemorheological indicators of patients with senile insomnia and have good effect in promoting circulation and removing stasis.

UI  - 23640130
TI  - Using mental imagery to deliver self-regulation techniques to improve sleep behaviors.
AB  - Implementation intention imagery can improve sleep behavior for daytime employees. Use of arousal reduction imagery was unsupported. Self-regulation imagery techniques show promise for improving sleep behaviors.

UI  - 23633757
TI  - A randomized controlled trial of problem-solving therapy compared to cognitive therapy for the treatment of insomnia in adults.
AB  - The results provide preliminary support for problem solving treatment as an equally efficacious alternative component to cognitive therapy in psychological interventions for insomnia.

UI  - 23629959
TI  - Efficacy of a cognitive-behavioral treatment for insomnia and nightmares in Afghanistan and Iraq veterans with PTSD.
AB  - The findings from this first controlled study with OEF/OIF veterans suggest that CBT-I combined with adjunctive IRT may hold promise for reducing both insomnia and PTSD symptoms. Given the fact that only half of the patients with nightmares fully implemented the brief IRT protocol, future studies should determine if this supplement adds differential efficacy to CBT-I alone.

UI  - 23620931
TI  - [Efficacy observation on refractory insomnia treated with the balance needling therapy].
AB  - The balance needling therapy is safe and effective in the treatment of refractory insomnia and achieves the same efficacy as the conventional acupuncture, which has more simple operation and less pain for the patients and much more considerable practicality in clinic.

UI  - 23615694
TI  - Long-term safety and tolerability of aripiprazole once-monthly in maintenance treatment of patients with schizophrenia.
AB  - The aim of this study was to evaluate the safety and tolerability of aripiprazole once-monthly (ARI-OM) for the maintenance treatment of schizophrenia. This long-term, pivotal study had four phases: oral conversion (phase 1, 4-6 weeks); oral stabilization (phase 2, 4-12 weeks); ARI-OM stabilization with coadministration of oral aripiprazole in the first 2 weeks (phase 3, 12-36 weeks); and a 52-week, randomized [phase 4, ARI-OM vs. placebo (2 : 1)], double-blind, maintenance phase. Safety was assessed across study phases by the time of first onset of adverse events, as were objective measures of extrapyramidal symptoms, fasting metabolic parameters, and body weight. Patient enrollment was phase 1=633; phase 2=710, of whom 210 entered phase 2 directly; phase 3=576; and phase 4=403 (ARI-OM, n=269; placebo, n=134). Adverse events (>5%) in any phase were insomnia, headache, anxiety, akathisia, increase in weight, injection-site pain, and tremor. Headache, somnolence, and nausea had a peak first onset within 4 weeks of treatment initiation. The incidence of extrapyramidal symptoms was similar in all phases. There were no unexpected changes in weight or shifts in fasting metabolic parameters across all study phases. ARI-OM had a safety and tolerability profile comparable with oral aripiprazole in maintenance treatment of schizophrenia.

UI  - 23610011
TI  - Acute toxicity of proton beam radiation for pediatric central nervous system malignancies.
AB  - PBT appears to be well tolerated in pediatric patients with CNS malignancies. Acute toxicity can be managed with supportive care.

UI  - 23609389
TI  - Tolerability, pharmacokinetics, and pharmacodynamics of single-dose almorexant, an orexin receptor antagonist, in healthy elderly subjects.
AB  - Sleep disorders are common in the elderly population. Orexin receptor antagonism has been proposed as a new sleep-enabling approach to treat insomnia. The tolerability, pharmacokinetics, and pharmacodynamics of ascending single doses of almorexant, a dual orexin receptor antagonist, were investigated in healthy elderly male and female subjects. In this double-blind, placebo- and active-controlled study, each dose (100, 200, and 400 mg) was investigated in a separate group of 12 subjects (almorexant, placebo, and zolpidem 10 mg in an 8:2:2 ratio). Morning doses of almorexant were well tolerated. As expected for sleep-enabling compounds, somnolence and fatigue were frequently reported. Other adverse events included headache and nausea. Muscular weakness was reported at a higher incidence only with the highest almorexant dose. The pharmacokinetic profile of almorexant was characterized by a median time to the maximum concentration of 1.5 hours, quick disposition with a distribution half-life of 1.6 hours, and rapidly decreasing concentrations to approximately 20% of the maximum concentration over 8 hours, with a terminal half-life of 32 hours. Objective pharmacodynamic measures showed decreases in saccadic peak velocity and adaptive tracking performance and increases in body sway with the 400-mg dose of almorexant. Subjective assessments revealed a dose-dependent decrease in alertness. Almorexant had no effects on mood, calmness, subjective internal and external perception, and feeling high. These findings provide a solid basis to study the effects of almorexant in elderly patients with insomnia.

UI  - 23577218
TI  - Cognitive training improves sleep quality and cognitive function among older adults with insomnia.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00901641.

UI  - 23564996
TI  - Energetic and cell membrane metabolic products in patients with primary insomnia: a 31-phosphorus magnetic resonance spectroscopy study at 4 tesla.
AB  - These results support the hyperarousal hypothesis in PI based on lower phosphocreatine in gray matter in the PI group.

UI  - 23561946
TI  - Doxepin and cognitive behavioural therapy for insomnia in patients with Parkinson's disease -- a randomized study.
AB  - Doxepin and non-pharmacologic treatment substantially improved insomnia in Parkinson's disease. These potential benefits must be replicated in a full confirmatory randomized controlled trial.

UI  - 23550945
TI  - A preliminary randomised double-blind placebo-controlled clinical trial of hydroxyzine for treating sleep bruxism in children.
AB  - This is a randomised placebo-controlled clinical trial investigating the efficacy of hydroxyzine for treating parent-reported sleep bruxism in children. Participants of this trial were 30 patients randomly allocated to one of the two groups in a ratio of 1:2. One group received hydroxyzine and the other group received placebo. The outcome measures were Visual Analogue Scale test and Clinical Global Severity scale. Assessments occurred at baseline and at the end of week 4. The side effects of drugs were assessed using a checklist. The number of children in the hydroxyzine and placebo groups was 21 and 9, respectively. The mean age of children in the hydroxyzine and placebo groups was 84(s.d. = 33) and 65(s.d. = 15) years, respectively. Hydroxyzine more than placebo decreased bruxism score (38 versus 22). No serious adverse effect was reported. Current evidence support that hydroxyzine is effective and well tolerated for treating bruxism in children.

UI  - 23546935
TI  - Clinical benefit of delamanid (OPC-67683) in the treatment of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis patients in China.
AB  - The cure rates are much lower for multidrug-resistant (MDR) tuberculosis (TB) patients. Delamanid (OPC-67683) has been evaluated in phase-II MDR-TB clinical trials. Herein, we reviewed MDR-TB cases in which treatment regimens, with/without delamanid, were administered. Thirty-eight patients were enrolled; 26 received delamanid-containing regimens (treatment group) while 12 received placebo-containing regimens (control group) for 56 days. Data regarding clinical/radio-microbiological characteristics, drug tolerability, and treatment outcomes were collected. We found that all patients had isolates resistant to a median of 5 (range 2-7) drugs; 24 (92.3%) patients in treatment group and 11 (91.7%) in control group had cavities. Culture conversion was obtained in 32 pulmonary TB cases (median 74.5 days). At data censure, 30/38 patients successfully completed therapy with documented negative cultures for at least 18 months before the end of treatment. Two patients (5 consecutive negative cultures) are still on treatment. Six patients had poor outcome (3 failures/2 lost/1 death). In 13 patients, adverse events were observed that included mental disorder, QT interval prolongation, and increased blood cortisol whereas only 3 patients stopped delamanid treatment because of adverse events. It was, therefore, concluded that delamanid was well-tolerated, had low rates of discontinuation, and could be effective for treating MDR-TB.

UI  - 23543804
TI  - Efficacy and safety of a polyherbal sedative-hypnotic formulation NSF-3 in primary insomnia in comparison to zolpidem: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - NSF-3 is a safe and effective short-term alternative to zolpidem for primary insomnia. It remains to be explored whether the benefits are sustained and whether there is dependence liability with this formulation upon long term use.

UI  - 23508680
TI  - Persistent sleep disturbance is associated with treatment response in adolescents with depression.
AB  - Sleep disturbances were highly related to depressive state and were associated with poorer treatment response in adolescents with depression. These results provide a rationale for further exploration of sleep-related treatments for adolescents with depression. Knowledge of patient-reported persistent sleep disturbances can help clinicians to predict treatment outcomes and may direct them to augment treatment or focus on sleep-related treatment strategies.

UI  - 23493468
TI  - Stepped care for insomnia: an evaluation of implementation in routine practice.
AB  - Implications of these findings are that stepped care resulted in a 69% improvement in efficiency, and that low-intensity treatment delivered in step 1 may have been particularly sufficient for the young and employed, and for those with better sleep.

UI  - 23481119
TI  - Adverse effects of induced hot flashes on objectively recorded and subjectively reported sleep: results of a gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist experimental protocol.
AB  - This experimental model of induced hot flashes demonstrates a causal relationship between hot flashes and poor sleep quality. Objective hot flashes result in worse objective sleep efficiency, whereas subjective hot flashes worsen perceived sleep quality.

UI  - 23457689
TI  - A double-blind randomised controlled study of a brief intervention of bedtime restriction for adult patients with primary insomnia.
AB  - This is the first study using bedtime restriction designed to be feasible in primary care by using a brief intervention and a patient-oriented outcome.

UI  - 23450712
TI  - Randomized controlled trial of telephone-delivered cognitive behavioral therapy for chronic insomnia.
AB  - Arnedt JT; Cuddihy L; Swanson LM; Pickett S; Aikens J; Chervin RD. Randomized controlled trial of telephone-delivered cognitive behavioral therapy for chronic insomnia. SLEEP 2013;36(3):353-362.

UI  - 23448313
TI  - Exploring effective core drug patterns in primary insomnia treatment with Chinese herbal medicine: study protocol for a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - NCT01613183.

UI  - 23447917
TI  - Effect of low-dose French maritime pine bark extract on climacteric syndrome in 170 perimenopausal women: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - This study, applying a relatively low daily dose, allows identification of those climacteric symptoms which respond particularly well to supplementation with Pycnogenol.

UI  - 23400741
TI  - Population pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of gabapentin after administration of gabapentin enacarbil.
AB  - Gabapentin enacarbil (GEn) is an actively transported prodrug of gabapentin that provides sustained dose-proportional exposure to gabapentin and predictable bioavailability. Gabapentin enacarbil is approved by the US Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of moderate-to-severe primary restless legs syndrome (RLS) in adults. Using plasma gabapentin concentration data obtained after administration of GEn in 12 phase 1 to 3 GEn studies in healthy adults or patients with RLS (dose range, 300-2400 mg/d), a population pharmacokinetic (PK) model was developed by nonlinear mixed-effect modeling using NONMEM. Data were similar in subjects with and without RLS. Population PK-pharmacodynamic (PD) models were evaluated using gabapentin exposure and change from baseline in investigator- or patient-rated Clinical Global Impression of Improvement (CGI-I) or International Restless Legs Scale (IRLS) total score. Potential PK-PD models for sleep outcomes and safety parameters were also explored. The CGI-I response increased with increasing GEn dose, whereas the IRLS total score was similar at all exposures tested. Early adverse events of dizziness or somnolence/sedation were more frequent for GEn 600 mg than higher doses; however, this is confounded by the fact that all subjects received the 600-mg dose for 3 days prior to titration to higher dosages.

UI  - 23379385
TI  - Cancer-related intrusive thoughts predict behavioral symptoms following breast cancer treatment.
AB  - Intrusive thoughts are associated with enduring elevations in behavioral symptoms and impaired quality of life in the year after breast cancer treatment and may be a risk factor for poor outcomes.

UI  - 23374200
TI  - Efficacy of cranial electric stimulation for the treatment of insomnia: a randomized pilot study.
AB  - The study's primary outcome variables were the time to sleep onset, total time slept, and number of awakenings as reported by the subjects in the serial sleep logs. The researchers identified a nearly significant increase in total time slept after three cranial electric stimulation treatments among all study subjects. A closer examination of this group revealed an interesting gender bias, with men reporting a robust increase in total time slept after one treatment, decay in effect over the next two interventions, and then an increase in total time slept after the fourth treatment. The researchers speculate that the up and down effect on total time slept could be the result of an insufficient dose of cranial electric stimulation.

UI  - 23372680
TI  - Amelioration of acute sequelae of blast induced mild traumatic brain injury by N-acetyl cysteine: a double-blind, placebo controlled study.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00822263.

UI  - 23372466
TI  - Nightmares and dysfunctional beliefs about sleep mediate the effect of insomnia symptoms on suicidal ideation.
AB  - Nightmares as well as dysfunctional beliefs and attitudes about sleep each are positively and independently related to the intensity of suicidal ideation, and the effect of insomnia symptoms appears to be mediated through these two variables.

UI  - 23372266
TI  - Novel sublingual low-dose zolpidem tablet reduces latency to sleep onset following spontaneous middle-of-the-night awakening in insomnia in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, outpatient study.
AB  - NCT00466193: "A Study of Zolpidem Tartrate Tablet in Adult Patients with Insomnia" http://www.clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT00466193?spons=%22Transcept+Pharmaceuticals%22&spons_ex=Y&rank=2

UI  - 23364126
TI  - Psychological trauma symptom improvement in veterans using emotional freedom techniques: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - This study examined the effect of Emotional Freedom Techniques (EFT), a brief exposure therapy combining cognitive and somatic elements, on posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and psychological distress symptoms in veterans receiving mental health services. Veterans meeting the clinical criteria for PTSD were randomized to EFT (n = 30) or standard of care wait list (SOC/WL; n = 29). The EFT intervention consisted of 6-hour-long EFT coaching sessions concurrent with standard care. The SOC/WL and EFT groups were compared before and after the intervention (at 1 month for the SOC/WL group and after six sessions for the EFT group). The EFT subjects had significantly reduced psychological distress (p < 0.0012) and PTSD symptom levels (p < 0.0001) after the test. In addition, 90% of the EFT group no longer met PTSD clinical criteria, compared with 4% in the SOC/WL group. After the wait period, the SOC/WL subjects received EFT. In a within-subjects longitudinal analysis, 60% no longer met the PTSD clinical criteria after three sessions. This increased to 86% after six sessions for the 49 subjects who ultimately received EFT and remained at 86% at 3 months and at 80% at 6 months. The results are consistent with that of other published reports showing EFT's efficacy in treating PTSD and comorbid symptoms and its long-term effects.

UI  - 23353579
TI  - Hyperarousal, sleep scheduling, and time awake in bed as mediators of outcome in computerized cognitive-behavioral therapy (cCBT) for insomnia.
AB  - This study investigated the relationship between hyperarousal, sleep scheduling, and time awake in bed in a secondary data analysis. Participants were 89 adults with chronic insomnia previously involved in a randomized controlled trial of 5 weeks of computerized cognitive behavioral therapy (cCBT). At measurement periods, participants completed the Pre-Sleep Arousal Scale, 7 days of sleep diaries, and the Insomnia Severity Index. Measures were re-administered at a 4 week follow-up. Results showed that improvements in hyperarousal and time awake in bed partially mediated the impact of cCBT on sleep at follow-up but that improvements in sleep schedule consistency did not. Of these mediators, pre-sleep arousal is more significant in explaining change associated with cCBT for insomnia.

UI  - 23347908
TI  - The Glasgow Sleep Impact Index (GSII): a novel patient-centred measure for assessing sleep-related quality of life impairment in Insomnia Disorder.
AB  - The development of the GSII represents a novel attempt to capture and measure sleep-related quality of life impairment in a valid and meaningful way. Further psychometric and clinical evaluation is suggested.

UI  - 23347472
TI  - Subjective sleep quality in relation to inhibition and heart rate variability in patients with panic disorder.
AB  - Cognitive inhibition is related to key insomnia symptoms: sleep initiation and sleep maintenance. The data supports the psychobiological inhibition model of insomnia, and extends previous findings. Possible clinical implications of these findings are discussed.

UI  - 23342780
TI  - [Observation on therapeutic effect of scalp-acupoint catgut embedding for 33 cases of insomnia patients].
AB  - Both routine acupuncture and scalp-acupoint catgut embedding interventions can effectively reduce falling asleep latency and prolong sleep duration. The therapeutic effect of scalp-acupoint catgut embedding is relatively better in improving sleep duration and sleep efficiency.

UI  - 23312430
TI  - Cognitive refocusing treatment for insomnia: a randomized controlled trial in university students.
AB  - This investigation assessed the efficacy of a technique specifically designed to change the style and content of presleep thoughts in order to reduce nighttime cognitive arousal and decrease insomnia severity. This investigation, termed "cognitive refocusing treatment for insomnia" (CRT-I), previously improved sleep in a small sample of veterans with primary insomnia. In this investigation, university students with poor sleep were randomly assigned to attend either one session of CRT-I and sleep hygiene education (SH: n=27) or one session of only SH (n=24). Insomnia severity (assessed by the Insomnia Severity Index) and nighttime arousal (assessed by the Pre-Sleep Arousal Scale) were measured at baseline and 1month posttreatment. A significant GroupTime interaction for insomnia severity suggested more improved sleep over time for those receiving CRT-I+SH. A trend for a GroupTime interaction showed decreased cognitive arousal over time among those receiving CRT-I. These findings provide preliminary support for the efficacy of CRT-I for insomnia treatment among college students. Continued study of CRT-I in a community-based sample appears warranted.

UI  - 23291800
TI  - Treatment of paradoxical insomnia with atypical antipsychotic drugs. A comparison of olanzapine and risperidone.
AB  - Atypical anti-psychotic drugs such as olanzapine and risperidone may be beneficial options for treatment of paradoxical insomnia. Larger clinical trials with longer periods of follow-up are needed for further investigation.

UI  - 23286463
TI  - Determinants of success for computerized cognitive behavior therapy: examination of an insomnia program.
AB  - This study evaluated plausible moderators of outcome in a 6-week computerized treatment for insomnia. Using secondary data from two randomized controlled trials, participants were 228 adults with chronic insomnia. Participants received computerized treatment from their homes. Outcomes were assessed using a sleep diary, as well as several standardized self-report scales. Using linear mixed models with SPSS, treatment was largely robust to comorbid conditions, education, age, and gender. Results showed that psychiatric comorbidity and education moderated the impact of treatment on fatigue and that sleep symptom comorbidity moderated the impact of treatment on maladaptive attitudes about sleep. Implications of these findings are that more widespread use of computerized treatment for insomnia may be warranted.

UI  - 23286297
TI  - Effects of acupuncture treatment on depression insomnia: a study protocol of a multicenter randomized controlled trial.
AB  - The trial was registered in Chinese Clinical Trial Register (ChiCR-TRC-00000481) on 12 August 2009.

UI  - 23282267
TI  - [Efficacy and safety of modified release zolpidem in patients with chronic insomnia].
AB  - these data support the efficacy, safety and acceptance of zolpidem MR administered on an "as per needed" regimen for the treatment of chronic insomnia.

UI  - 23235408
TI  - [The results of Russian multicenter open-label observational study of the efficacy and safety of elaxen (melatonin) for the treatment of disordered sleep in patients with chronic cerebral ischemia].
AB  - The results of the multicenter open-label observational study of the efficacy and safety of the Melaxen (melatonin) for the treatment of disordered sleep in patients with chronic cerebral ischemia are presented. 2062 patients were studied with the use of subjective psychometric scales: subjective sleep characteristics scale, sleep apnea screening questionnaire, Epworth sleepiness scale, hospital anxiety and depression scale. Mean age of patients was 55.79.0 years, there were 74.1% females and 25.9% males. Melaxen was given in dosage of 3 mg. before sleep for 24 days. The use of Melaxen leads to the increase of subjective sleep quality by the subjective sleep characteristics scale from 19.73.1 points to  22.73.4 points on day 14 and 22.73.4 on day 24 (differences are significant at p<0.0001). There was the decrease of the relative number of patients with frequent night awakenings, prolonged sleep latency, short night sleep, poor quality of morning awakening and multiple bothering dreams. Authors conclude that the use of Melaxen in dosage of 3 mg before sleep is effective and safe insomnia treatment in patients with chronic cerebral ischemia.

UI  - 23219918
TI  - Psychological and behavioral variables associated with the somatic symptom severity of general hospital outpatients in China.
AB  - In Chinese outpatients, high somatic symptom severity is frequent and associated with psychobehavioral characteristics. With the PHQ-15 cutoff of 10, SOM+ patients could be differentiated from SOM- patients using these characteristics.

UI  - 23205513
TI  - Decreased health-related quality of life in women with breast cancer is associated with poor sleep.
AB  - This study examined the longitudinal relation between health-related quality of life (HR-QOL) and subjective and objective sleep quality in 166 women with newly diagnosed Stage-1 through Stage-3 breast cancer, who were scheduled to receive  4 cycles of adjuvant/neoadjuvant chemotherapy. HR-QOL was assessed with the Medical Outcomes Study 36-item Short Form, Physical Component Scale (PCS), and Mental Component Scale (MCS) scores; subjective sleep was assessed with the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index; and objective sleep was measured with actigraphy. Data were collected before starting chemotherapy and during the last week of Cycle 4 of chemotherapy. Patients reported poor HR-QOL and poor sleep quality before and during chemotherapy. Short sleep time and long naps were recorded at both time points. The MCS score was related to reports of poor sleep, but not to recorded sleep; worse PCS scores were associated with reports of poor sleep and less recorded naptime, suggesting sleep plays an important role in cancer patients' HR-QOL.

UI  - 23197752
TI  - Orexin receptor antagonism for treatment of insomnia: a randomized clinical trial of suvorexant.
AB  - This study provides Class I evidence that suvorexant improves sleep efficiency over 4 weeks in nonelderly adult patients with primary insomnia.

UI  - 23195393
TI  - Analgesic and sedative effects of melatonin in temporomandibular disorders: a double-blind, randomized, parallel-group, placebo-controlled study.
AB  - This study provides additional evidence supporting the analgesic effects of melatonin on pain scores and analgesic consumption in patients with mild-to-moderate chronic myofascial TMD pain. Furthermore, melatonin improves sleep quality but its effect on pain appears to be independent of changes in sleep quality.

UI  - 23178661
TI  - Efficacy and safety of Wuling capsule, a single herbal formula, in Chinese subjects with insomnia: a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - Wuling capsule can improve insomnia when compared with pre-treatment for 4 weeks and be a well tolerated by all the patients at the 6 weeks of study period. However, there are no significant in the results of the variables tested when compared with placebo control. Further additional rigorous randomized clinical trials are still required.

UI  - 23173252
TI  - [Acupuncture therapy for the improvement of sleep quality of outpatients receiving methadone maintenance treatment: a randomized controlled trial].
AB  - Acupuncture therapy could effectively and safely improve the sleep quality of outpatients receiving MMT.

UI  - 23171815
TI  - Does exercise improve self-reported sleep quality in non-remitted major depressive disorder?
AB  - Exercise augmentation resulted in improvements in self-reported sleep quality in patients with non-remitted MDD. Given the prevalence of insomnia as a residual symptom following MDD treatment and the associated risk of MDD recurrence, exercise augmentation may have an important role in the treatment of MDD.

UI  - 23141027
TI  - Depression treatment preferences of older white and Mexican origin men.
AB  - Findings could inform development of patient-centered depression treatment programs for older men and suggest strategies, such as attention to sleep problems, which providers may employ to tailor treatment to preferences of older men.

UI  - 23118244
TI  - Effects of a standardized pamphlet on insomnia in children with autism spectrum disorders.
AB  - A sleep education pamphlet did not appear to improve sleep latency in children with ASDs.

UI  - 23123531
TI  - Hybrid cognitive-behaviour therapy for individuals with insomnia and chronic pain: a pilot randomised controlled trial.
AB  - The hybrid intervention appeared to be an effective treatment for chronic pain patients with insomnia. It may be a treatment approach more suited to tackle challenges presented in clinical practice, where problems seldom occur in isolation.

UI  - 23115404
TI  - Efficacy of eight months of nightly zolpidem: a prospective placebo-controlled study.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT01006525; Trial Name: Safety and Efficacy of Chronic Hypnotic Use; http://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT01006525.

UI  - 23109266
TI  - Effectiveness of abbreviated CBT for insomnia in psychiatric outpatients: sleep and depression outcomes.
AB  - This study provides preliminary evidence that abbreviated behavioral treatment has beneficial effects on residual insomnia and depression in long-term psychiatric outpatients.

UI  - 23098832
TI  - Neuropsychiatric symptoms and the use of complementary and alternative medicine.
AB  - More than 40% of adults with neuropsychiatric symptoms commonly observed in many diagnoses use CAM; an increasing number of symptoms was associated with an increased likelihood of CAM use.

UI  - 23063301
TI  - A randomized placebo-controlled polysomnographic study of eszopiclone in Japanese patients with primary insomnia.
AB  - In Japanese patients with primary insomnia, eszopiclone 2mg and 3mg significantly improved PSG-determined and patient-reported sleep latency and sleep maintenance relative to placebo.

UI  - 23035962
TI  - Self-help treatment for insomnia symptoms associated with chronic conditions in older adults: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Self-help CBT-I offers a practical first-line response to individual reporting insomnia symptoms associated with chronic disease in primary care settings. In these individuals, symptoms of daytime fatigue may be more closely associated with disease processes than with sleep quality.

UI  - 23025837
TI  - A randomized, double-blind, double-dummy, multicenter, controlled trial on brotizolam intervention in outpatients with insomnia.
AB  - Brotizolam is effective and safe in relieving the symptoms of insomnia.

UI  - 23024438
TI  - Repeated melatonin supplementation improves sleep in hypertensive patients treated with beta-blockers: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - his study is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, identifier: NCT00238108; trial name: Melatonin Supplements for Improving Sleep in Individuals with Hypertension; URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT00238108.

UI  - 23005039
TI  - Melatonin treatment effects on adolescent students' sleep timing and sleepiness in a placebo-controlled crossover study.
AB  - During the last few decades, the incidence of sleep-onset insomnia, due to delay of circadian phase, has increased substantially among adolescents all over the world. We wanted to investigate whether a small dose of melatonin given daily, administered in the afternoon, could advance the sleep timing in teenagers. Twenty-one students, aged 14-19 yrs, with sleep-onset difficulties during school weeks were recruited. The study was a randomized, double blind, placebo (PL)-controlled crossover trial, lasting 5 wks. During the first 6 d in wks 2 and 4, the students received either PL or melatonin (1 mg) capsules between 16:30 and 18:00 h. During the first 6 d of wk 5, all students received melatonin. Wks 1 and 3 were capsule-free. In the last evening of each week and the following morning, the students produced saliva samples at home for later melatonin analysis. The samples were produced the same time each week, as late as possible in the evening and as early as possible in the morning. Both the student and one parent received automatic mobile text messages 15 min before saliva sampling times and capsule intake at agreed times. Diaries with registration of presumed sleep, subjective sleepiness during the day (Karolinska Sleepiness Scale, KSS) and times for capsule intake and saliva samplings were completed each day. Primary analysis over 5 wks gave significant results for melatonin, sleep and KSS. Post hoc analysis showed that reported sleep-onset times were advanced after melatonin school weeks compared with PL school weeks (p < .005) and that sleep length was longer (p < .05). After the last melatonin school week, the students fell asleep 68 min earlier and slept 62 min longer each night compared with the baseline week. Morning melatonin values in saliva diminished compared with PL (p < .001) and evening values increased (p < .001), indicating a possible sleep phase advance. Compared with PL school weeks, the students reported less wake up (p < .05), less school daytime sleepiness (p < .05) and increased evening sleepiness (p < .005) during melatonin weeks. We conclude that a small dose of melatonin given daily, administered in the afternoon, could advance the sleep timing and make the students more alert during school days even if they continued their often irregular sleep habits during weekends.

UI  - 23002951
TI  - Post-sleep inertia performance benefits of longer naps in simulated nightwork and extended operations.
AB  - Operational settings involving shiftwork or extended operations require periods of prolonged wakefulness, which in conjunction with sleep loss and circadian factors, can have a negative impact on performance, alertness, and workplace safety. Napping has been shown to improve performance and alertness after periods of prolonged wakefulness and sleep loss. Longer naps may not only result in longer-lasting benefits but also increase the risk of sleep inertia immediately upon waking. The time course of performance after naps of differing durations is thus an important consideration in weighing the benefits and risks of napping in workplace settings. The objective of this study was to evaluate the effectiveness of nap opportunities of 20, 40, or 60 min for maintaining alertness and performance 1.5-6 h post-nap in simulated nightwork (P1) or extended operations (P2). Each protocol included 12 participants in a within-subjects design in a controlled laboratory environment. After a baseline 8 h time-in-bed, healthy young males (P1 mean age 25.1 yr; P2 mean age 23.2 yr) underwent either  20 h (P1) or  30 h (P2) of sleep deprivation on four separate occasions, followed by nap opportunities of 0, 20, 40, and 60 min. Sleep on the baseline night and during the naps was recorded polysomnographically. During the nap opportunities, sleep onset latency was short and sleep efficiency was high. A greater proportion of slow-wave sleep (SWS) was obtained in nap opportunities of 40 and 60 min compared with 20 min. Rapid eye movement (REM) sleep occurred infrequently. A subjective sleepiness rating (Karolinska Sleepiness Scale, KSS), 2-Back Working Memory Task (WMT), and Psychomotor Vigilance Task (PVT) were completed 1.5, 2, 2.5, 3, 4, 5, and 6 h post-nap. The slowest 10% of PVT responses were significantly faster after 40 and 60 min naps compared with a 20 min (P1) or no (P2) nap. There were significantly fewer PVT lapses after 40 and 60 min naps compared with no nap (P2), and after 60 min naps compared with 20 min naps (P1). Participants felt significantly less sleepy and made more correct responses and fewer omissions on the WMT after 60 min naps compared with no nap (P2). Subjective sleepiness and WMT performance were not related to the amount of nap-time spent in SWS. However, PVT response speed was significantly slower when time in SWS was <10 min compared with 20-29.9 min. In conclusion, in operationally relevant scenarios, nap opportunities of 40 and 60 min show more prolonged benefits 1.5-6 h post-nap, than a 20 min or no nap opportunity. Benefits were more apparent when the homeostatic pressure for sleep was high and post-nap performance testing occurred across the afternoon (P2). For sustained improvement in cognitive performance, naps of 40-60 min are recommended.

UI  - 22999525
TI  - The genetic and environmental structure of the covariation among the symptoms of insomnia, fatigue, and depression in adult females.
AB  - Although the co-occurrence among symptoms of insomnia, fatigue, and depression has been frequently reported, the etiology of this co-occurrence remains poorly understood. A total of 3,758 adult female twins in the United Kingdom completed a mail-out survey including six questions concerning frequency and severity of symptoms of insomnia, fatigue, and depression. Correlations among the scores of the three symptoms ranged from 0.35 to 0.44. Among various multivariate models we tested, the common-pathway model explained the data best. In the best-fitting model, the common factor was explained approximately equally by genetic and unique environmental factors (49% and 51%, respectively). In addition to the common variance, there was a significant specific variance in each symptom, where unique environmental factors were much larger than genetic factors. These results imply that although there are shared genetic liabilities for the development of symptoms of depression, fatigue, and insomnia, it is environmental experiences that make etiological distinctions among three symptoms.

UI  - 22982083
TI  - Comparative effectiveness of CBT interventions for co-morbid chronic pain & insomnia: a pilot study.
AB  - CBT for pain and CBT for insomnia may be combined with good results for patients with co-occurring chronic pain and insomnia.

UI  - 22981051
TI  - A comparison between acupuncture versus zolpidem in the treatment of primary insomnia.
AB  - Acupuncture might be used as an alternative strategy compared to zolpidem for the treatment of primary insomnia.

UI  - 22977265
TI  - A preliminary investigation of stimulus control training for worry: effects on anxiety and insomnia.
AB  - For individuals with generalized anxiety disorder, worry becomes associated with numerous aspects of life (e.g., time of day, specific stimuli, environmental cues) and is thus under poor discriminative stimulus control (SC). In addition, excessive worry is associated with anxiety, depressed mood, and sleep difficulties. This investigation sought to provide preliminary evidence for the efficacy of SC procedures in reducing anxiety-, mood-, and sleep-related symptoms. A total of 53 participants with high trait worry were randomly assigned to receive 2 weeks of either SC training (consisting of a 30-min time- and place-restricted worry period each day) or a control condition called focused worry (FW; consisting of instructions to not avoid naturally occurring worry so that worry and anxiety would not paradoxically increase). At post-training, SC was superior to FW in producing reductions on measures of worry, anxiety, negative affect, and insomnia, but not on measures of depression or positive affect. Moreover, SC was superior to FW in producing clinically significant change on measures of worry and anxiety. Results provide preliminary support for the use of SC training techniques in larger treatment packages for individuals who experience high levels of worry.

UI  - 22963894
TI  - A double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial of adjunctive ramelteon for the treatment of insomnia and mood stability in patients with euthymic bipolar disorder.
AB  - The present study shows that ramelteon was effective in maintaining stability for individuals with bipolar disorder. Patients treated with ramelteon were approximately half as likely to relapse as patients treated with placebo throughout the 24-week treatment period.

UI  - 22943846
TI  - Acupuncture improves sleep in postmenopause in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study.
AB  - Acupuncture was effective in improving reported sleep quality and quality of life in postmenopausal women with insomnia.

UI  - 22940513
TI  - The experience of a diagnosis of advanced lung cancer: sleep is not a priority when living my life.
AB  - Healthcare professionals may design interventions to encourage keeping life as normal as possible, focusing on improving sleep, which may ultimately prolong patients' lives.

UI  - 22920723
TI  - Efficacy of porcine placental extract on climacteric symptoms in peri- and postmenopausal women.
AB  - Oral PPE treatment is another possible option for treating perimenopausal and postmenopausal women with climacteric symptoms.

UI  - 22909282
TI  - Safety and tolerability of Panax ginseng root extract: a randomized, placebo-controlled, clinical trial in healthy Korean volunteers.
AB  - P. ginseng administration for 4 weeks was shown to be safe, tolerable, and free of any untoward toxic effect in healthy male and female volunteers. Future results from ongoing multicenter collaborative efforts to evaluate short- and long-term effects of P. ginseng may contribute to our current understanding of safety and tolerability of this herbal product.

UI  - 22903446
TI  - Effects of acupuncture with meridian acupoints and three Anmian acupoints on insomnia and related depression and anxiety state.
AB  - Acupuncture with meridian acupoints combined with three Anmian acupoints can improve the sleeping quality of patients with insomnia.

UI  - 22888075
TI  - Prostate cancer treatments and their side effects are associated with increased insomnia.
AB  - Androgen deprivation therapy is associated with an increased risk for insomnia, and side effects of ADT and RTH appear to play a role in the development of insomnia in this population.

UI  - 22869826
TI  - The impact of a healthy media use intervention on sleep in preschool children.
AB  - The significant effects of a healthy media use intervention on child sleep problems in the context of a randomized controlled trial suggest that the previously reported relationship between media use and child sleep problems is indeed causal in nature.

UI  - 22851812
TI  - Trait-like vulnerability to total and partial sleep loss.
AB  - Resilience to sleep loss is a trait-like characteristic that reflects an individual's ability to maintain performance during both types of sleep loss (SR and TSD). Whether the findings extend to sleep schedules other than those investigated here (63 h of TSD and 7 nights of 3 h nightly TIB) will be the focus of future studies.

UI  - 22851811
TI  - Residual sleep disturbances in patients remitted from major depressive disorder: a 4-year naturalistic follow-up study.
AB  - Residual sleep disturbances, including insomnia and nightmares, were commonly reported in remitted depressed patients with impaired quality of life and suicidal ideation. A constellation of psychosocial and personality factors, baseline sleep disturbances, and comorbid anxiety symptoms may account for the residual sleep disturbances. Routine assessment and management of sleep symptoms are indicated in the integrated management of depression.

UI  - 22851805
TI  - The orexin antagonist SB-649868 promotes and maintains sleep in men with primary insomnia.
AB  - The data demonstrate the sleep-promoting properties of the orexin antagonist SB-649868 in male patients with insomnia.

UI  - 22834326
TI  - [Agonist of V2 vasopressin receptor reduces depressive disorders in post-stroke patients].
AB  - Poststroke depression is one of the common psychiatric complications after stroke. Thus, the research of new ways for treatment depressed mood after stroke is actual. The previous researches revealed vasopressin to be effective in patients with memory, speech and motor function disorders after stroke. The purpose of the study was to investigate influence of vasopressin on depression after stroke. Fourteen patients with affective disorders have been treated with subendocrine doses of 1-desamino-8-D-arginin-vasopressin (DDAVP) daily by intranasal application during 1,5-2 months. Vasopressin was effective in correcting both apatoadinamic and anxious depression. Treatment effect was durable, lasts for 0,5-1 year after the first course of therapy. The results of this pilot study demonstrate perspective of using selective agonist of vasopressin V2 receptors, DDAVP, in therapy of post-stroke depression.

UI  - 22832540
TI  - Mindfulness-based cognitive therapy improves polysomnographic and subjective sleep profiles in antidepressant users with sleep complaints.
AB  - MM is associated with increases in both objectively and subjectively measured sleep continuity in ADM users. MM training may serve as more desirable and cost-effective alternative to discontinuation or supplementation with hypnotics, and may contribute to a more sustainable recovery from depression.

UI  - 22808932
TI  - Effect of a home-based simple yoga program in child-care workers: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - A home-based simple yoga program may improve the health status of child-care workers.

UI  - 22759744
TI  - Pilot study of a mindfulness-based, multi-component, in-school group sleep intervention in adolescent girls.
AB  - A mindfulness-based, multi-component, in-school group sleep intervention following brief screening is feasible, and has the potential to improve sleep. Its impact on anxiety needs further investigation.

UI  - 22742439
TI  - Adherence to cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia (CBTI) among women following primary breast cancer treatment: a pilot study.
AB  - Cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia (CBTI) has proven efficacy, yet 32%-89% of patients fail to consistently follow recommendations. This pilot study examines adherence to CBTI in breast cancer survivors with insomnia. There was a significant decline in adherence to prescribed rise time, and total time in bed, but no change in adherence to prescribed bedtime during six weekly sessions. Factors associated with higher adherence included lower fatigue and higher baseline motivation. Higher adherence was associated with worse subjective sleep quality at the beginning of CBTI and fewer nocturnal awakenings at the end of treatment. Results provide preliminary evidence supporting the impact of adherence on sleep outcomes such as fewer nocturnal awakenings. Attention to adherence as part of CBTI may yield greater sleep improvements.

UI  - 22734373
TI  - [Clinical observation on insomnia treated with multivariate acupuncture of chronomedicine].
AB  - The multivariate acupuncture of chronomedicine improves sleep apparently for the patients with insomnia and its efficacy is better than that of conventional acupuncture.

UI  - 22673453
TI  - Sleep quality and aerobic training among menopausal women--a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Aerobic training for 6 months may improve sleep quality and reduce hot flushes among symptomatic menopausal women.

UI  - 22654199
TI  - Dismantling multicomponent behavioral treatment for insomnia in older adults: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Behavioral Intervention for Insomnia in Older Adults. NCT01154023. URL: http://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT01154023?term=Behavioral+Intervention+for+Insomnia+in+Older+Adults&rank=1.

UI  - 22654196
TI  - A randomized, placebo-controlled trial of online cognitive behavioral therapy for chronic insomnia disorder delivered via an automated media-rich web application.
AB  - ISRCTN - 44615689.

UI  - 22623888
TI  - A Chinese chan-based mind-body intervention improves sleep on patients with depression: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Sleep disturbance is a common problem associated with depression, and cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) is a more common behavioral intervention for sleep problems. The present study compares the effect of a newly developed Chinese Chan-based intervention, namely Dejian mind-body intervention (DMBI), with the CBT on improving sleep problems of patients with depression. Seventy-five participants diagnosed with major depressive disorder were randomly assigned to receive 10 weekly sessions of CBT or DMBI, or placed on a waitlist. Measurements included ratings by psychiatrists who were blinded to the experimental design, and a standardized questionnaire on sleep quantity and quality was obtained before and after the 10-week intervention. Results indicated that both the CBT and DMBI groups demonstrated significantly reduced sleep onset latency and wake time after sleep onset (effect size range = 0.46-1.0, P  0.05) as compared to nonsignificant changes in the waitlist group (P > 0.1). Furthermore, the DMBI group, but not the CBT or waitlist groups, demonstrated significantly reduced psychiatrist ratings on overall sleep problems (effect size = 1.0, P = 0.00) and improved total sleep time (effect size = 0.8, P = 0.05) after treatment. The present findings suggest that a Chinese Chan-based mind-body intervention has positive effects on improving sleep in individuals with depression.

UI  - 22616853
TI  - Controlled-release melatonin, singly and combined with cognitive behavioural therapy, for persistent insomnia in children with autism spectrum disorders: a randomized placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - Although melatonin and cognitive-behavioural therapy have shown efficacy in treating sleep disorders in children with autism spectrum disorders, little is known about their relative or combined efficacy. One hundred and sixty children with autism spectrum disorders, aged 4-10 years, suffering from sleep onset insomnia and impaired sleep maintenance, were assigned randomly to either (1) combination of controlled-release melatonin and cognitive-behavioural therapy; (2) controlled-release melatonin; (3) four sessions of cognitive-behavioural therapy; or (4) placebo drug treatment condition for 12 weeks in a 1 : 1 : 1 : 1 ratio. Children were studied at baseline and after 12 weeks of treatment. Treatment response was assessed with 1-week actigraphic monitoring, sleep diary and sleep questionnaire. Main outcome measures, derived actigraphically, were sleep latency, total sleep time, wake after sleep onset and number of awakenings. The active treatment groups all resulted in improvements across all outcome measures, with moderate-to-large effect sizes from baseline to a 12-week assessment. Melatonin treatment was mainly effective in reducing insomnia symptoms, while cognitive-behavioural therapy had a light positive impact mainly on sleep latency, suggesting that some behavioural aspects might play a role in determining initial insomnia. The combination treatment group showed a trend to outperform other active treatment groups, with fewer dropouts and a greater proportion of treatment responders achieving clinically significant changes (63.38% normative sleep efficiency criterion of >85% and 84.62%, sleep onset latency <30 min). This study demonstrates that adding behavioural intervention to melatonin treatment seems to result in a better treatment response, at least in the short term.

UI  - 22574800
TI  - Don't worry, be constructive: a randomized controlled feasibility study comparing behaviour therapy singly and combined with constructive worry for insomnia.
AB  - The findings suggest that, compared to BT alone, CW might result in additional improvements in insomnia severity and worry. Given the small sample size and short follow-up, future studies are warranted.

UI  - 22568118
TI  - [Clinical efficacy of psychotherapy targeted for insomnia in comorbid depression].
AB  - Insomnia often persists despite adequate pharmacotherapy in depression and represents an obstacle to its full remission. It is unclear whether psychotherapy targeted for insomnia can improve clinical outcomes for patients with residual depression and treatment refractory insomnia. We aimed to evaluate the added value of brief Behavioral Therapy for insomnia (bBTi) over treatment as usual (TAU) for residual depression and refractory insomnia. Randomized controlled trial in 37 adults with residual depression and refractory insomnia was conducted. Twenty patients received TAU plus bBTi, consisting of 4 weekly 1-hour individual sessions, administered by psychiatrists or nurses. The rest received TAU alone. The Insomnia Severity Index (ISI) scores at 8 weeks were defined as the primary outcome. The Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HAMD) scores assessed by blind raters, and remission rates for both insomnia and depression were also evaluated. Analysis of covariance was used to test group effects while controlling for the baseline scores. The protocol was approved by the Ethics Committees of all the recruiting centers. Written informed consent was obtained from all participants. The bBTi plus TAU resulted in significantly lower ISI scores than TAU alone at 8 weeks (P < .0005). Significant differences were observed in favor of the combination group for both on the total HAMD scores (P = .013) and on the HAMD scores after removing the three sleep items (P = .008). The combination treatment produced higher rates of remission than TAU alone, both in terms of insomnia (50% [10/20] vs. 0% [0/17]) with a number-needed-to-treat (NNT) of 2 (95% confidence intervals, 1 to 4), and in terms of depression (50% [10/20] vs. 6% [1/17]) with an NNT of 2 (1 to 5). For the purpose of dissemination of bBTi, we are planning two additional trials taking account of the intensity of bBTi and of the effectiveness in a real-world situation.

UI  - 22549286
TI  - Orexin receptor antagonism, a new sleep-enabling paradigm: a proof-of-concept clinical trial.
AB  - The orexin system is a key regulator of sleep and wakefulness. In a multicenter, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, two-way crossover study, 161 primary insomnia patients received either the dual orexin receptor antagonist almorexant, at 400, 200, 100, or 50 mg in consecutive stages, or placebo on treatment nights at 1-week intervals. The primary end point was sleep efficiency (SE) measured by polysomnography; secondary end points were objective latency to persistent sleep (LPS), wake after sleep onset (WASO), safety, and tolerability. Dose-dependent almorexant effects were observed on SE , LPS , and WASO . SE improved significantly after almorexant 400 mg vs. placebo (mean treatment effect 14.4%; P < 0.001). LPS (18 min (P = 0.02)) and WASO (54 min (P < 0.001)) decreased significantly at 400 mg vs. placebo. Adverse-event incidence was dose-related. Almorexant consistently and dose-dependently improved sleep variables. The orexin system may offer a new treatment approach for primary insomnia.

UI  - 22537466
TI  - The effect of Qigong on menopausal symptoms and quality of sleep for perimenopausal women: a preliminary observational study.
AB  - Ping Shuai Qigong improved climacteric symptoms and sleep quality in perimenopausal women at 6 weeks and 12 weeks. The longer a person practiced this form of meditative exercise, the greater the improvement in sleeping quality and climacteric symptoms.

UI  - 22526822
TI  - DSM-IV psychiatric comorbidity according to symptoms of insomnia: a nationwide sample of Korean adults.
AB  - Most psychiatric disorders were significantly associated with each insomnia symptom in different ways. Differences in sociodemographic and clinical correlates between the four insomnia symptoms implied the heterogeneous characteristics of insomnia as defined by the current diagnostic criteria.

UI  - 22503380
TI  - The Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index in older primary care patients with generalized anxiety disorder: psychometrics and outcomes following cognitive behavioral therapy.
AB  - The Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI) is a widely used, comprehensive self-report measure of sleep quality and impairment, which has demonstrated good psychometric properties within various populations, including older adults. However, the psychometric properties of the PSQI and its component scores have not been evaluated for older adults with generalized anxiety disorder (GAD). Additionally, changes in PSQI global or component scores have not been reported following cognitive-behavioral treatment (CBT) of late-life GAD. This study examined (1) the psychometric properties of the PSQI within a sample of 216 elderly primary care patients age 60 or older with GAD who were referred for treatment of worry and/or anxiety; as well as (2) response to CBT, relative to usual care, for 134 patients with principal or coprincipal GAD. The PSQI demonstrated good internal consistency reliability and adequate evidence of construct validity. Those receiving CBT experienced greater reductions in PSQI global scores at post-treatment, relative to those receiving usual care. Further, PSQI global and component scores pertaining to sleep quality and difficulties falling asleep (i.e., sleep latency and sleep disturbances) demonstrated response to treatment over a 12-month follow-up period. Overall, results highlight the usefulness of the PSQI global and component scores for use in older adults with GAD.

UI  - 22494532
TI  - The effects of music on the sleep quality of adults with chronic insomnia using evidence from polysomnographic and self-reported analysis: a randomized control trial.
AB  - The results contribute to knowledge of the effectiveness of music as a therapy to improve sleep quality in adults experiencing insomnia. Listening to soothing music at nocturnal sleep time improved the rested rating scores, shortened stage 2 sleep, and prolonged REM sleep, but has little effect on sleep quality as measured by polysomnography and self-reported questionnaires.

UI  - 22484341
TI  - Group interventions for co-morbid insomnia and osteoarthritis pain in primary care: the lifestyles cluster randomized trial design.
AB  - Six weekly sessions of group cognitive-behavioral therapy for insomnia and osteoarthritis pain (CBT-PI), and for osteoarthritis pain alone (CBT-P) were compared to an education only control (EOC). Basic education about pain and sleep was comparable, so EOC controlled for information and group participation. Active interventions differed from EOC in training pain coping skills (CBT-P and CBT-PI) and sleep enhancement techniques (CBT-PI). Persons with osteoarthritis age 60 or older were screened for osteoarthritis pain and insomnia severity via mailed survey. Primary outcomes were pain severity (pain intensity and interference ratings from the Graded Chronic Pain Scale) and insomnia severity (Insomnia Severity Index). Secondary outcomes were arthritis pain (AIMS-2 symptom scale) and sleep efficiency assessed by wrist actigraphy. Ancillary outcomes included: cognitive function, depression, and health care use. A clustered randomized design provided adequate power to identify moderate effects on primary outcomes (effect size>0.35). Modified intent to treat analyses, including all participants who attended the first session, assessed effects across CBT-PI, CBT-P, and EOC groups. Treatment effects were assessed post-intervention (2 months) and at 9 months, with durability of intervention effects evaluated at 18 months. The trial was executed in 6 primary clinics, randomizing 367 participants, with 93.2% of randomized patients attending at least 4 group sessions. Response rates for post-intervention and 9 month assessments were 96.7% and 92.9% respectively. This hybrid efficacy-effectiveness trial design evaluates whether interventions yield specific benefits for clinical and behavioral outcomes relative to an education only control when implemented in a primary care setting.

UI  - 22465450
TI  - A WASO sub-group analysis of a 6-month study of eszopiclone 3 mg.
AB  - As illustrated in this analysis, a significant proportion of chronic insomnia patients in efficacy trials that select on the basis of sleep onset latency and total sleep time criteria may have normative-range WASO. However, even in the subgroup with minimal WASO there was a significant sleep maintenance effect. The absence of any sleep maintenance effect in a drug trial may reflect the inclusion of relatively many insomnia patients with no baseline WASO abnormality. However, treatments with therapeutic effects on sleep maintenance, can still demonstrate improvement in sleep maintenance, even in a population not selected for this type of sleep problem, if adequately powered. Future clinical trials intending to examine sleep maintenance should employ WASO selection criteria that would ensure sufficient power to detect a sleep maintenance effect. Drug-placebo difference increased as a function of baseline WASO severity, suggesting that eszopiclone's clinical effectiveness for insomnia may be enhanced in patients with more severe sleep maintenance symptoms.

UI  - 22464973
TI  - A double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled study with JNJ-37822681, a novel, highly selective, fast dissociating D receptor antagonist in the treatment of acute exacerbation of schizophrenia.
AB  - JNJ-37822681 is a novel, highly selective dopamine D receptor antagonist characterized by a rapid dissociation rate from the dopamine D receptor. This profile was hypothesized to confer antipsychotic efficacy and improved tolerability. In this 12-week study, the efficacy and safety of JNJ-37822681 were evaluated in patients with an acute exacerbation of schizophrenia, randomly assigned (1:1:1:1:1) to JNJ-37822681 (10-, 20- or 30-mg bid), olanzapine (15 mg once-daily), or placebo (for 6 weeks followed by olanzapine for 6 weeks). Of 498 randomized patients, 298 (60%) completed the study. All JNJ-37822681 dose groups and the olanzapine group showed significantly greater reduction in PANSS total score from baseline to week 6 versus placebo (all p-values < 0.001). Least-squares adjusted mean changes from baseline to week 6 in PANSS total score were: -6.4 (placebo); -18.4 (10 mg JNJ-37822681), -17.7 (20 mg JNJ-37822681), -20.0 (30 mg JNJ-37822681) and -22.9 (olanzapine). All JNJ-37822681 groups showed significant improvement versus placebo from baseline to week 6 in the PANSS subscales, Marder factors, Clinical Global Impression of Severity, and in the Subjective Well-Being on Neuroleptics scale (all p-values < 0.05). The most common treatment-emergent adverse events with JNJ-37822681 were insomnia (17%) and akathisia (13%). Incidences of extrapyramidal symptoms were dose-related and were comparable for JNJ-37822681 10 mg bid and olanzapine groups. All JNJ-37822681 dose groups showed lesser weight gain compared with olanzapine. The efficacy and tolerability profile of the JNJ-37822681 10 mg bid was consistent with the study hypothesis.

UI  - 22460608
TI  - Cognitive behavior therapy for chronic insomnia in occupational health services.
AB  - The study showed that a non-pharmacological treatment of insomnia can be implemented into OHS with a reasonable amount of effort and that the treatment delivered by trained OHS nurses yields promising results. These findings, however, need to be interpreted cautiously, due to the non-randomized design and small sample size.

UI  - 22445311
TI  - Laboratory validation of an in-home method for assessing circadian phase using dim light melatonin onset (DLMO).
AB  - The at-home assessment procedure was able to determine an accurate DLMO using an absolute threshold in 62.5% of the participants. Thus, an at-home procedure for assessing circadian phase could be practical for evaluating patients for circadian rhythm sleep disorders.

UI  - 22433978
TI  - Effect of escitalopram on insomnia symptoms and subjective sleep quality in healthy perimenopausal and postmenopausal women with hot flashes: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Among healthy perimenopausal and postmenopausal women with hot flashes, escitalopram at 10 to 20 mg/day compared with placebo reduced insomnia symptoms and improved subjective sleep quality at 8 weeks of follow-up.

UI  - 22424859
TI  - Pregabalin increases slow-wave sleep and may improve attention in patients with partial epilepsy and insomnia.
AB  - Concurrent treatment with pregabalin improves sleep depth in patients with insomnia and epilepsy and improves daytime attention.

UI  - 22417316
TI  - Randomized trial of Tapas Acupressure Technique for weight loss maintenance.
AB  - The primary analysis showed no significant difference in weight regain between TAT and SS, while secondary and post hoc analyses indicate direction for future research.

UI  - 22415141
TI  - Prevalence of sleep disturbances in mild cognitive impairment and dementing disorders: a multicenter Italian clinical cross-sectional study on 431 patients.
AB  - A careful clinical evaluation of sleep disorders should be performed routinely in the clinical setting of persons with cognitive decline. Instrumental supports should be used only in selected patients.

UI  - 22406240
TI  - Genetic polymorphisms in the opioid receptor mu1 gene are associated with changes in libido and insomnia in methadone maintenance patients.
AB  - Methadone, a synthetic racemic opioid that primarily works as a -opioid receptor (OPRM1) agonist, is commonly used for the treatment of heroin addiction. Genetic association studies have reported that the OPRM1 gene is involved in the physiology of heroin and alcohol addiction. Our current study is designed to test the hypothesis that genetic polymorphisms in the OPRM1 gene region are associated with methadone dosage, plasma concentrations, treatment responses, adverse reactions and withdrawal symptoms in a methadone maintenance treatment (MMT) cohort from Taiwan. Fifteen OPRM1 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were selected and genotyped using DNA samples from 366 MMT patients. The plasma concentrations of methadone and its metabolite were measured by high performance liquid chromatography. The results obtained using dominant model analysis indicate that the OPRM1 SNPs rs1074287, rs6912029, rs12209447, rs510769, rs3798676, rs7748401, rs495491, rs10457090, rs589046, rs3778152, rs563649, and rs2075572 are significantly associated with change-in-libido side effects (adjusted p<0.042). Using recessive model analysis, these SNPs were also found to be significantly associated with insomnia side effects in this cohort (p<0.009). The significance of the insomnia findings was mainly contributed by a subgroup of patients who had a positive urine morphine test (p<0.022), and by individuals who did not use benzodiazepine hypnotics (p<0.034). Our current data thus suggest that genetic polymorphisms in OPRM1 may influence the change-in-libido and insomnia side effects sometimes found in MMT patients.

UI  - 22402240
TI  - [The health status of older people with insomnia].
AB  - Health status was worse in older people with insomnia, whether primary, secondary to other mental illnesses or organic, and when the elderly patients consumed hypnotics/sedatives. Limitations were less severe in primary insomnia.

UI  - 22377984
TI  - [Insomnia: simple behavior therapy improves sleep].
AB  - 

UI  - 22348451
TI  - Melatonin pharmacokinetics following two different oral surge-sustained release doses in older adults.
AB  - Melatonin is increasingly used for the treatment of sleep disorders. Surge-sustained formulations consisting of combined immediate release and controlled release dosing may mimic the endogenous melatonin physiologic profile. However, relatively little is known about the pharmacokinetic properties of low-dose (<0.5mg) and high-dose (>2mg) melatonin in a combined immediate release/controlled release dose, especially in older adults who may also exhibit altered melatonin disposition. To assess this, we conducted a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of low-dose (0.4mg) and high-dose (4.0mg) melatonin (25% immediate release+75% controlled release) in 27 older adults with insomnia complaints and low endogenous melatonin levels to determine whether melatonin pharmacokinetic properties differ between these two doses. The time to maximum level (1.3hrs versus 1.5hrs), elimination half-life (1.8hrs versus 2.1hrs), and apparent total clearance (379L/hr versus 478L/hr) did not differ significantly between the low- and high-dose arms, respectively. The maximum concentration was 40593pg/mL for the low-dose arm and 3999700pg/mL for the high-dose arm, both of which are substantially higher than physiologic melatonin levels for this age group. In addition, subjects in the high-dose arm maintained melatonin levels >50pg/mL for an average of 10hrs, which could result in elevated melatonin levels beyond the typical sleep period. Renal and liver function parameters remained stable after 6wks of treatment. The linear pharmacokinetic behavior of melatonin observed in the elderly can form the basis for future studies exploring a wider range of dosing scenarios to establish exposure-response relationships for melatonin-mediated sleep outcomes.

UI  - 22342027
TI  - Effectiveness of a cognitive behavioral self-help program for patients with primary insomnia in general practice - a pilot study.
AB  - This study supports the use of a cognitive-behavioral SHP on primary insomnia in the setting of a general practice and should be investigated in more detail. Also, regular appointments and the utilization of sleep logs seem to have a positive influence on sleep disorders.

UI  - 22334811
TI  - Objective vs. subjective measurements of sleep in depressed insomniacs: first night effect or reverse first night effect?
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT00247624.

UI  - 22323041
TI  - Cognitive-behavioral therapy for insomnia co-morbid with hearing impairment: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - The purpose of the current study was to examine the effects of cognitive behavior therapy (CBT-I) for insomnia on patients with insomnia co-morbid with hearing impairment. A randomized controlled design was used with a 3-month follow-up. Thirty-two patients with insomnia co-morbid with hearing impairment were randomized to either CBT-I or a waitlist condition (WLC). The primary outcome was insomnia severity. Secondary outcomes were sleep diary parameters, dysfunction, anxiety, and depression. Compared to WLC, CBT-I resulted in lower insomnia severity at post-treatment and at follow-up (d=1.18-1.56). Relative to WLC, CBT-I also led, at both assessment points, to reduced total wake time (d=1.39) and increased sleep restoration (d=1.03-1.07) and sleep quality (d=0.91-1.16). Both groups increased their total sleep time, but no significant group difference emerged. Compared to WLC, CBT-I resulted in higher function (d=0.81-0.96) and lower anxiety (d=1.29-1.30) at both assessment points. Neither CBT-I nor WLC led to improvement on depression. Based on the Insomnia Severity Index, more CBT-I (53-77%) than WLC participants (0-7%) were treatment responders. Also, more CBT-I (24%) than WLC participants (0%) remitted. In patients with insomnia co-morbid with hearing impairment, CBT-I was effective in decreasing insomnia severity, subjective sleep parameters, dysfunction, and anxiety. These findings are in line with previous results on the effects of CBT-I in other medical conditions.

UI  - 22292729
TI  - The association of HIV/AIDS treatment side effects with health status, work productivity, and resource use.
AB  - Due to stable incidence and improved survival rates, there are an increasing number of patients living with HIV/AIDS in the USA. Although highly effective, current antiretroviral therapies are associated with a variety of side effects. The role side effects play on health outcomes has not been fully examined. The current study assessed the association of medication side effects with (1) self-assessed health status; (2) work productivity and activity impairment; and (3) healthcare resource utilization. Data were from a cross-sectional patient-reported survey fielded in the USA using a dual methodology of Internet and paper questionnaires. A total of 953 patients living with HIV/AIDS who were currently taking a medication for their condition were included in the analyses. The most frequent side effects reported by patients were fatigue (70.72%), diarrhea (62.96%), insomnia (58.97%), dizziness (52.78%), neuropathy (52.68%), joint pain (52.36%), nausea (51.63%), and abdominal pain (50.37%). The presence of each side effect was associated with reduced self-assessed health status, increased productivity loss, increased activity impairment, and increased healthcare resource use. Controlling for CD4 cell counts in regression modeling did little to diminish the impact of side effects. Although not all side effects were associated with all outcomes, every side effect was associated with worse health status, some measure of increased work productivity loss, and/or some measure of increased healthcare resource use. Patients are living longer with HIV and, therefore, spending a greater length of time on treatment. The results of the current study suggest that many of these patients are experiencing a wide array of side effects from these therapies. These side effects have demonstrated a profound association with self-assessed health, work productivity, and healthcare resource use. Improved management of these side effects or development of treatments with a better side effect profile may have a substantial humanistic and economic benefit.

UI  - 22288153
TI  - [Self-evaluation of single test doses and objective indices of ladasten vs. placebo efficacy in neurasthenic patients].
AB  - Self-evaluation of the effect of single-dose (15 mg) ladasten administration versus placebo has been studied in patients with neurasthenia diagnosis. Relationships between self-evaluation parameters and personal features, psychopathological and psychophysiological parameters of patients, drug action characteristics, and course treatment effectiveness have been analyzed. Results suggest that the self-rated high tolerability of ladasten treatment is comparable with that of placebo. No relationships are found between the self-evaluated single-dose effects of ladasten and personal features of patients. Correlations of the self-estimations and some psychopathological and psychophysiological parameters before treatment, main drug effects, and overall course treatment effectiveness are revealed, whereas the self-evaluation of placebo effect was related to personal features.

UI  - 22264332
TI  - Efficacy of a behavioral self-help treatment with or without therapist guidance for co-morbid and primary insomnia--a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT01105052.

UI  - 22257126
TI  - Insomnia moderates outcome of serotonin-selective reuptake inhibitor treatment in depressed youth.
AB  - While adolescents reporting substantial insomnia were less likely to respond to antidepressant treatment than those without insomnia, children were more responsive to fluoxetine when they had insomnia. Additional intervention targeting sleep disturbance may be warranted in adolescents.

UI  - 22250617
TI  - Is melatonin an adjunctive stabilizer?
AB  - 

UI  - 22240858
TI  - Low-dose glucocorticoid therapy complements the pituitary-adrenocortical system and reduces anxiety and insomnia in myasthenia gravis patients.
AB  - Myasthenia gravis (MG) is an autoimmune disorder generally mediated by antibodies against the acetylcholine receptors of the skeletal muscles. Depending on the disease burden, MG patients may experience chronic dysregulation of both the hormonal stress axis and the immune system, consequently, aggravating the disease itself but also leading to secondary psychopathological abnormalities. A long-term clinical course requires long-term glucocorticoid (GC) therapy, which may change the psychological state by affecting the pituitary-adrenocortical system in MG patients. In this study, we investigated the function of the pituitary-adrenocortical system in MG patients who were treated with prednisolone (PSL) and evaluated their quality of life by using the Medical Outcomes Study 36-item Short-Form Health Survey and the 28-item general health questionnaire (GHQ-28). ACTH and cortisol levels in the plasma of patients who were treated with PSL (PSL[+] group, n = 18) were lower than those in the plasma of patients who were treated without PSL (PSL[-] group, n = 29; P < 0.05 and P < 0.01, respectively). In the PSL(+) group, we confirmed that cortisol levels negatively correlated with daily PSL dosages (P < 0.05). The anxiety and depression scores from the GHQ-28 in the PSL(+) group were lower than those in the PSL(-) group (P < 0.05, respectively). There was no significant correlation between cortisol levels and corticotropin levels in plasma of the PSL(-) group. However, we confirmed that corticotropin levels positively correlated with cortisol levels in plasma (P < 0.01) and negatively correlated with anxiety/insomnia scores from the GHQ-28 (P < 0.05) in the PSL(+) group. In conclusion, low-dose GC treatment complemented the pituitary-adrenocortical system and improved the psychological state in MG patients.

UI  - 22237311
TI  - Differential effects of a dual orexin receptor antagonist (SB-649868) and zolpidem on sleep initiation and consolidation, SWS, REM sleep, and EEG power spectra in a model of situational insomnia.
AB  - Orexins have a role in sleep regulation, and orexin receptor antagonists are under development for the treatment of insomnia. We conducted a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, four-period crossover study to investigate the effect of single doses of the dual orexin receptor antagonist SB-649868 (10 or 30 mg) and a positive control zolpidem (10 mg), an allosteric modulator of GABA(A) receptors. Objective and subjective sleep parameters and next-day performance were assessed in 51 healthy male volunteers in a traffic noise model of situational insomnia. Compared with placebo, SB-649868 10 and 30 mg increased total sleep time (TST) by 17 and 31 min (p<0.001), whereas after zolpidem TST was increased by 11.0 min (p=0.012). Wake after sleep onset was reduced significantly by 14.7 min for the SB-6489698 30 mg dose (p<0.001). Latency to persistent sleep was significantly reduced after both doses of SB-6489698 (p=0.003), but not after zolpidem. Slow wave sleep (SWS) and electroencephalogram (EEG) power spectra in non-REM sleep were not affected by either dose of SB-640868, whereas SWS (p< 0.001) and low delta activity (<=1.0 Hz) were increased, and 2.25-11.0 Hz activity decreased after zolpidem. REM sleep duration was increased after SB-649868 30 mg (p=0.002) and reduced after zolpidem (p=0.049). Latency to REM sleep was reduced by 20.1 (p=0.034) and 34.0 min (p<0.001) after 10 and 30 mg of SB-649868. Sleep-onset REM episodes were observed. SB-649868 was well tolerated. This dual orexin receptor antagonist exerts hypnotic activity, with effects on sleep structure and the EEG that are different from those of zolpidem.

UI  - 22215918
TI  - A randomized controlled trial of intensive sleep retraining (ISR): a brief conditioning treatment for chronic insomnia.
AB  - This 25-hour intensive conditioning treatment for chronic insomnia can produce rapid improvements in sleep, daytime functioning, and psychological variables. Adding ISR to traditional interventions seems to result in a superior treatment response.

UI  - 22214181
TI  - Can we modify maladaptive attributions for fatigue?
AB  - Research has shown that those with insomnia focus primarily on their sleep as a cause of daytime fatigue rather than the multitude of other possible causes of fatigue. This can create sleep-related anxiety and further perpetuate the sleep disturbance. In order to lessen the increased focus on sleep, the present study investigated whether people could learn to consider other attributions for fatigue via an information-based manipulation. Undergraduate students (N = 88) were randomized to two information groups: They either received information about common factors that could explain daytime fatigue (the fatigue information condition) or received generic sleep-related information (the control condition). Each group was tested pre- and post-intervention. Fatigue information participants were significantly more likely to consider non-sleep-related attributions for fatigue at post-intervention, relative to control participants. These results demonstrate that attributions for fatigue may be amenable to change via an information-based intervention; thus, this research explores a preliminary step toward investigating refinements to insomnia treatments.

UI  - 23751785
TI  - [Insomnia: prevalence in Cordoba city hospital].
AB  - The prevalence of insomnia in patients with chronic diseases is high, it is underdiagnosed and undertreated. It is associated with depression in high rate.

UI  - 22204947
TI  - Insomnia, nightmare frequency, and nightmare distress in victims of sexual abuse: the role of perceived social support and abuse characteristics.
AB  - In this study of victims of sexual abuse, the aim was to investigate the role of perceived social support and abuse characteristics in self-reported insomnia, nightmare frequency, and nightmare distress. Four hundred sixty Norwegian victims of sexual abuse completed a questionnaire assessing perceived social support, abuse characteristics, insomnia, nightmare frequency, and nightmare distress. Results show that higher levels of perceived social support were related to lower scores on all symptom outcome measures. Abuse involving oral, genital, or anal penetration was related to more insomnia symptoms. Longer duration of abuse and threatening conducted by the perpetrator were related to higher nightmare frequency, while threats and abuse involving penetration were related to higher degrees of distress associated with nightmares. In conclusion, the present study provides preliminary data indicating that perceived social support may affect the nature of sleep difficulties in sexual abuse victims. Also, more severe forms of sexual abuse are related to higher levels of sleep difficulties.

UI  - 22197474
TI  - Efficacy and safety of doxepin 6 mg in a four-week outpatient trial of elderly adults with chronic primary insomnia.
AB  - In elderly adults with insomnia, DXP 6 mg produced significant improvements in sleep maintenance, sleep duration, and sleep quality endpoints that were sustained throughout the trial. These data suggest that DXP 6 mg is effective for treating sleep maintenance insomnia and is well-tolerated in elderly adults with chronic primary insomnia.

UI  - 22185894
TI  - Randomized controlled trial on the effects of a combined sleep hygiene education and behavioral approach program on sleep quality in workers with insomnia.
AB  - To evaluate the effects of a combined sleep hygiene education and behavioral approach program on sleep quality in workers with insomnia, we conducted a randomized controlled trial at a design engineering unit in Japan. Employees evaluated for insomnia by the Athens Insomnia Scale (6 points) were divided into an intervention and control group. The intervention group received a short-term intervention (30 min) program that included sleep hygiene education and behavioral approaches (relaxation training, stimulus control, and sleep restriction) performed by occupational health professionals. We calculated differences in change in Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI) scores between the two groups from baseline to three months after the start of intervention after adjusting for gender, age, job title, job category, average number of hours of overtime during the study period, marital status, smoking habit, average number of days of alcohol consumption per week, exercise habits, K6 score, and baseline PSQI score. Results showed that the average PSQI score decreased by 1.0 in the intervention group but increased by 0.9 in the control group. Additionally, the difference in variation between the two groups was 1.9 (95% confidence interval: 0.6 to 3.4), which was significant. Taken together, these results indicate that the intervention program significantly improved the sleep quality of workers with insomnia.

UI  - 22162648
TI  - Cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia comorbid with COPD is feasible with preliminary evidence of positive sleep and fatigue effects.
AB  - Results suggest that using CBT-I in COPD is feasible and the outcomes compare favorably with those obtained in older adults with insomnia in the context of other chronic illnesses.

UI  - 22136094
TI  - Dose effects and comparative effectiveness of extended release dexmethylphenidate and mixed amphetamine salts.
AB  - Dose level, rather than stimulant class, was strongly related to medication response.

UI  - 22131601
TI  - MSLT in primary insomnia: stability and relation to nocturnal sleep.
AB  - These data support the hypothesis that some insomniacs show a reliable disorder of hyperarousal with increased wake drive both at night and during the day.

UI  - 22121936
TI  - Testing two types of self-help CBT-I for insomnia in older adults with arthritis or coronary artery disease.
AB  - Although outcomes were attenuated relative to those obtained in therapist led intervention studies, the results suggest that self-help CBT-I has good potential to serve as a first-line, cost-effective treatment for both primary and comorbid insomnia in older adults.

UI  - 22115988
TI  - Comparison of two strategies to improve infant sleep problems, and associated impacts on maternal experience, mood and infant emotional health: a single case replication design study.
AB  - These findings support previous research into the effectiveness of SI-mc. The study also expands the research into the effectiveness of parental presence by showing that with the inclusion of the minimal check component, which may be preferred by both parents and clinicians over non-responding to the crying infant, the strategy is as effective as SI-mc.

UI  - 22097346
TI  - [Clinical study on intervention of spleen-restoring decoction integrating with dormancy hygiene education on subhealthy insomnia of deficiency of both heart and spleen pattern].
AB  - Both the intervention of spleen-restoring decoction integrating with dormancy hygiene education and spleen-restoring decoction had obvious clinical efficacy on treating subhealthy insomnia of deficiency of both the heart and spleen pattern, and had high compliance and safety. The intervention of spleen-restoring decoction integrating with dormancy hygiene education showed no better clinical efficacy than spleen-restoring decoction did.

UI  - 22087613
TI  - Management of distress during climacteric years by homeopathic therapy.
AB  - This study proves the usefulness of homeopathic medicines in relieving DDCY.

UI  - 22057018
TI  - EEG spectral power density profiles during NREM sleep for gaboxadol and zolpidem in patients with primary insomnia.
AB  - There is significant interest in the functional significance and the therapeutic value of slow-wave sleep (SWS)-enhancing drugs. A prerequisite for studies of the functional differences is characterization of the electroencephalography (EEG) spectra following treatment in relevant patients. We evaluate for the first time gaboxadol and zolpidem treatments in insomniac patients using power spectra analysis. We carried out two randomized, double-blind, crossover studies. Study 1, 38 patients received gaboxadol 10 mg and 20 mg and zolpidem 10 mg; study 2, 23 patients received gaboxadol 5 mg and 15 mg. Treatments were administered during two nights and compared with placebo. Gaboxadol 10, 15 and 20 mg enhanced slow-wave activity (SWA) and theta power. In 1 Hz bins gaboxadol 10 and 20 mg enhanced power up to 9 Hz. In study 2, 15 mg gaboxadol showed a similar effect pattern. Zolpidem suppressed theta and alpha power, and increased sigma power, with no effect on SWA. In the 1 Hz bins zolpidem suppressed power between 5-10 Hz. Gaboxadol dose-dependently increased SWA and theta power in insomniac patients. In contrast, zolpidem did not affect SWA, reduced theta and alpha activity and enhanced sigma power. EEG spectral power differences may be consequences of the different mechanisms of action for zolpidem and the SWS-enhancing agent, gaboxadol.

UI  - 22055281
TI  - Internet-delivered or mailed self-help treatment for insomnia?: a randomized waiting-list controlled trial.
AB  - Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT) is effective in reducing insomnia complaints, but the effects of self-help CBT have been inconsistent. The aim of this study was to determine the effectiveness of self-help for insomnia delivered in either electronic or paper-and-pencil format compared to a waiting-list. Participants kept a diary and filled out questionnaires before they were randomized into electronic (n=216), paper-and-pencil (n=205), or waiting-list (n=202) groups. The intervention consisted of 6 weeks of unsupported self-help CBT, and post-tests were 4, 18, and 48 weeks after intervention. At 4-week follow-up, electronic and paper-and-pencil conditions were superior (p<.01) compared to the waiting-list condition on most daily sleep measures (d=0.29-0.64), global insomnia symptoms (d=0.90-1.00), depression (d=0.36-0.41), and anxiety symptoms (d=0.33-0.40). The electronic and paper-and-pencil groups demonstrated equal effectiveness 4 weeks after treatment (d=0.00-0.22; p>.05). Effects were sustained at 48-week follow-up. This large-scale unsupported self-help study shows moderate to large effects on sleep measures that were still present after 48 weeks. Unsupported self-help CBT for insomnia therefore appears to be a promising first option in a stepped care approach.

UI  - 22050371
TI  - Adjunctive levetiracetam in children, adolescents, and adults with primary generalized seizures: open-label, noncomparative, multicenter, long-term follow-up study.
AB  - Adjunctive LEV (range 1,000-4,000 mg/day) demonstrated efficacy as a long-term treatment for primary generalized seizures in children, adolescents, and adults with IGE, and was well tolerated.

UI  - 22048261
TI  - Yoga decreases insomnia in postmenopausal women: a randomized clinical trial.
AB  - This study showed that a specific sequence of yoga might be effective in reducing insomnia and menopausal symptoms as well as improving quality of life in postmenopausal women with insomnia.

UI  - 22039079
TI  - Stellate ganglion block for the management of hot flashes and sleep disturbances in breast cancer survivors: an uncontrolled experimental study with 24 weeks of follow-up.
AB  - In the short term, SGB appears to be an effective treatment with acceptable morbidity for some breast cancer survivors with therapy-resistant vasomotor symptoms and/or sleep disturbances. Although sleep quality was maintained out to 24 weeks the efficacy of SGB for hot flashes was reduced over time. A randomized controlled trial is needed to confirm these findings.

UI  - 22019457
TI  - Effects of moderate aerobic exercise training on chronic primary insomnia.
AB  - Long-term moderate aerobic exercise elicited significant improvements in sleep, quality of life and mood in individuals with chronic primary insomnia.

UI  - 22017318
TI  - Effect of therapeutic massage on insomnia and climacteric symptoms in postmenopausal women.
AB  - The TM group exhibited improved subjective data considering the changes in symptoms according to the ISI and the MENQOL and a decrease in symptoms according to the BDI.

UI  - 22007690
TI  - Safety and tolerability of varenicline tartrate (Champix()/Chantix()) for smoking cessation in HIV-infected subjects: a pilot open-label study.
AB  - The prevalence of smoking in HIV-infected subjects is high. As a smoking cessation aid, varenicline (Champix(), Pfizer, Saint-Laurent, QC, Canada or Chantix(), Pfizer, Mission, KS) has not been previously evaluated in HIV-infected smokers. In this multicenter pilot open label study, varenicline 1.0 mg was used twice daily for 12 weeks with dose titration in the first week. Adverse events (AEs) during the treatment period were recorded. Changes from baseline in laboratory tests, vital signs, daily cigarette consumption, nicotine dependence, and withdrawal were measured through week 24. Self-reported abstinence was validated by serum cotinine at week 12. We enrolled 36 subjects with a mean of 29 pack-years of smoking and a minimum of 4 cigarettes per day. All but 1 were male, 33 (92%) were white. The most frequently reported AEs were nausea (33%), abnormal dreams (31%), affect lability (19%), and insomnia (19%). Six (17%) subjects discontinued varenicline due to AEs. No grade 3/4 laboratory abnormalities or serious AEs occurred during the study. There was no significant change in HIV viral load. CD4 counts increased by 69 cells/mm3 (p = 0.001) at week 24. Serum cotinine-verified 4-week continuous abstinence rate through weeks 9-12 was 42% (95% confidence interval [CI]: 26-58%). AEs and abstinence rates were comparable to those in published randomized controlled trials conducted in generally healthy HIV-negative smokers. Varenicline was safe and appears effective among HIV-infected smokers in this exploratory study, although AEs were common. The most common AE was nausea, with no adverse effect on HIV treatment outcome. Close monitoring of liver enzymes and blood pressure is recommended for HIV-positive smokers taking varenicline.

UI  - 22004689
TI  - Twelve months of nightly zolpidem does not lead to rebound insomnia or withdrawal symptoms: a prospective placebo-controlled study.
AB  - Rebound insomnia, worsened sleep when discontinuing use of a hypnotic, is reported in some short-term studies. No study has prospectively assessed, using patient reports or nocturnal polysomnography (NPSG), the likelihood of rebound insomnia with chronic hypnotic use. The objectives of this study was to assess in primary insomniacs the likelihood of experiencing rebound insomnia and a withdrawal syndrome on repeated placebo substitutions over 12 months of nightly zolpidem use. A group of 33 primary insomniacs, without psychiatric disorders or drug and alcohol abuse, 32-65 years old, 15 men and 18 women, were randomized to take zolpidem 10 mg (n = 17) or placebo (n = 16) nightly for 12 months. In probes during months 1, 4, and 12, placebo was substituted for 7 consecutive nights in both the zolpidem and placebo groups. NPSGs were collected and Tyrer Bezodiazepine Withdrawal Symptom Questionnaires were completed on the first two discontinuation nights. Rebound insomnia was not observed on the first two and the seventh discontinuation nights and its likelihood did not increase over the 12 months of nightly zolpidem use. Some individuals did show rebound insomnia, approximately 30-40% of participants, but the percentage of 'rebounders' did not differ between the placebo and zolpidem groups and did not increase across 12 months. No clinically significant withdrawal symptoms on the Tyrer were observed on the discontinuation nights over the 12 months of nightly use. Chronic nightly hypnotic use at therapeutic doses by primary insomniacs does not lead to rebound insomnia or withdrawal symptoms.

UI  - 22003975
TI  - Validation of the insomnia severity index as a web-based measure.
AB  - Although the Insomnia Severity Index (ISI) is already administered online, this frequently used instrument has not been validated for Web delivery. This study compares online and paper-and-pencil ISI versions completed by participants in a randomized controlled trial testing an Internet-delivered intervention for insomnia. Forty-three adults with insomnia completed both ISI versions during pre- (Assessment 1) and post-intervention (Assessment 2). Correlations between total scores of both versions were significant (rs  .98, ps < .001). For both ISI versions, internal consistency was acceptable (Assessment 1,  = .61; Assessment 2,   .88). Among participants not receiving the parent study intervention, correlations between 1 format at Assessment 1 and the alternative format at Assessment 2 were generally significant (rs = .26-.82). Together, findings suggest the ISI can be delivered online.

UI  - 22003345
TI  - EEG power spectra response to a 4-h phase advance and gaboxadol treatment in 822 men and women.
AB  - www.clinicaltrials.gov, study identifier: NCT00102167.

UI  - 22002961
TI  - Enhanced slow wave sleep and improved sleep maintenance after gaboxadol administration during seven nights of exposure to a traffic noise model of transient insomnia.
AB  - Slow wave sleep (SWS) has been reported to correlate with sleep maintenance, but whether pharmacological enhancement of SWS also leads to improved sleep maintenance is not known. Here we evaluate the time-course of the effects of gaboxadol, an extra-synaptic gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) agonist, on SWS, sleep maintenance, and other sleep measures in a traffic noise model of transient insomnia. After a placebo run-in, 101 healthy subjects (20-78y) were randomized to gaboxadol (n=50; 15mg in subjects <65y and 10mg in subjects 65y) or placebo (n=51) for 7 nights (N1-N7). The model caused some disruption of sleep initiation and maintenance, with greatest effects on N1. Compared with placebo, gaboxadol increased SWS and slow wave activity throughout N1 to N7 (p<0.05). Gaboxadol reduced latency to persistent sleep overall (N1-N7) by 4.5min and on N1 by 11min (both p<0.05). Gaboxadol increased total sleep time (TST) overall by 16min (p<0.001) and on N1 by 38min (p<0.0001). Under gaboxadol, wakefulness after sleep onset was reduced by 11min overall (p<0.01) and by 29min on N1 (p<0.0001), and poly-somnographic awakenings were reduced on N1 (p<0.05). Gaboxadol reduced self-reported sleep onset latency overall and on N1 (both p<0.05) and increased self-reported TST overall (p<0.05) and on N1 (p<0.01). Subjective sleep quality improved overall (p<0.01) and on N1 (p<0.0001). Increases in SWS correlated with objective and subjective measures of sleep maintenance and subjective sleep quality under placebo and gaboxadol (p<0.05). Gaboxadol enhanced SWS and reduced the disruptive effects of noise on sleep initiation and maintenance.

UI  - 21993580
TI  - A randomized, controlled pilot trial of hormone therapy for menopausal insomnia.
AB  - Insomnia is a frequent climacteric symptom. This pilot, double-blind, randomized placebo-controlled trial compared estradiol associated with trimegestone or placebo in 12 women with perimenopausal insomnia. The Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI) was administered, and polysomnography was performed at baseline and after 28 days. Sleep efficiency and median score of the PSQI improved significantly in the hormone therapy group (HT) (p=0.041 and p=0.027, respectively) and not in placebo group. Perimenopausal insomnia improved after short-term HT.

UI  - 21966075
TI  - Efficacy and safety of doxepin 3 and 6 mg in a 35-day sleep laboratory trial in adults with chronic primary insomnia.
AB  - Five weeks of nightly administration of DXP 3 mg and 6 mg to adults with chronic primary insomnia resulted in significant and sustained improvements in sleep maintenance and early morning awakenings (with the exception of SE in the final quarter of the night on N29 for 3 mg [P=0.0691]). These sleep improvements were not accompanied by next-day residual effects or followed by rebound insomnia or withdrawal effects upon discontinuation. These findings confirm the unique profile of sleep maintenance efficacy and safety of DXP observed in prior studies.

UI  - 21955196
TI  - Efficacy and tolerability of ramelteon in a double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover study in Japanese patients with chronic primary insomnia.
AB  - The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of ramelteon 4, 8, 16 or 32 mg and placebo in Japanese patients with chronic insomnia using a randomized, double-blind, five-period crossover design. A total of 65 Japanese patients with chronic primary insomnia received ramelteon or placebo for two nights each in sleep laboratories. Changes in sleep parameters were assessed objectively by polysomnography and subjectively by postsleep questionnaires. Safety and tolerability was evaluated by assessment of the occurrence of adverse events, next-day residual effects and laboratory and ECG investigations. Ramelteon 8 and 32 mg significantly shortened the mean latency to persistent sleep in comparison with placebo, and there was a statistically significant trend for linear dose-response for this sleep parameter. Overall changes in sleep architecture were modest (<3% changes vs placebo), with increases in stage 1 and decreases in stage 3/4. Ramelteon was well tolerated, the most common adverse effect being somnolence, which was similar to placebo at doses up to 8 mg, but increased with higher doses. Next-day residual effects occurred no more frequently with ramelteon at any dose than with placebo. When compared with sleep latency data from a similarly-designed US study, there was no evidence of any ethnic differences in the efficacy of ramelteon between Japanese and US patients. Overall, ramelteon 8 mg showed the most favorable balance between sleep-promoting effects and tolerability. The unique efficacy profile of ramelteon, promoting sleep initiation without affecting other sleep parameters, may be due to its circadian shifting effect.

UI  - 21939549
TI  - Preliminary examination of the efficacy and safety of a standardized chamomile extract for chronic primary insomnia: a randomized placebo-controlled pilot study.
AB  - Chamomile could provide modest benefits of daytime functioning and mixed benefits on sleep diary measures relative to placebo in adults with chronic primary insomnia. However, further studies in select insomnia patients would be needed to investigate these conclusions.

UI  - 21925941
TI  - Use of a post-sleep questionnaire-interactive voice response system (PSQ-IVRS) to evaluate the subjective sleep effects of ramelteon in adults with chronic insomnia.
AB  - Use of ramelteon 8 mg in an at-home setting did not demonstrate statistically significant improvements in subjective sleep latency compared with placebo, when measured by PSQ-IVRS.

UI  - 21897773
TI  - A possible method to predict response to non-pharmacological insomnia therapy.
AB  - Heart rate variability analyses indicate that differences exist between those who respond to insomnia therapy and those that do not, particularly in an older subset of subjects. Further research into the use of ECG and other physiological parameters to stratify response to therapeutic interventions is warranted.

UI  - 21890160
TI  - Evaluation of the safety and tolerability of a short higher-dose primaquine regimen for presumptive anti-relapse therapy in healthy subjects.
AB  - The safety and tolerability of primaquine (PQ) administered as a short higher-dose (30mg twice daily for 7 days) regimen in 203 Australian Defence Force personnel was evaluated in an open-label presumptive anti-relapse therapy study. No clinically significant differences were measured in the subjects' haematological and biochemical indices before and after PQ treatment. The most common adverse events were nausea, abdominal pain, headache and insomnia, many of which were mild in severity (30%; 60/203) and transient; 19% of subjects (39/203) experienced moderate (with some interference with daily duties requiring no or minimal medical therapy) adverse events. Two subjects (1%) had severe gastrointestinal adverse events requiring cessation of medication, but neither was seriously ill. Ten subjects (5%) had peripheral cyanosis (blueness of the lips), but none reported any respiratory compromise. These findings suggest that the short higher-dose PQ regimen is safe and well tolerated, which could improve PQ compliance and effectiveness.

UI  - 21887807
TI  - The effect of herbal extract (EstroG-100) on pre-, peri- and post-menopausal women: a randomized double-blind, placebo-controlled study.
AB  - This clinical research study was designed to evaluate the efficacy of a new herbal product, EstroG-100, containing a mixture of standardized extracts of Cynanchum wilfordii, Phlomis umbrosa and Angelica gigas, on menopausal symptoms. This randomized double-blind, placebo-controlled trial was performed for 12 weeks with 64 pre-, peri- and postmenopausal White Hispanic, White non-Hispanic and African American women who were randomly allocated to either the EstroG-100 group (n = 31) or the placebo group (n = 33). Primary end-points were the mean change in scores of the Kupperman menopause index (KMI) that evaluates 11 symptoms, and the mean change in scores of vaginal dryness. The mean KMI score was significantly reduced in the EstroG-100 group from 29.5  7.4 at baseline to 11.3  5.8 (p < 0.01) compared with change of the placebo group (29.2  6.6 at baseline vs 23.7  7.7 at week 12). The constituting symptoms of vasomotor, paresthesia, insomnia, nervousness, melancholia, vertigo, fatigue and rheumatic pain were significantly improved in the EstroG-100 group in comparison with the placebo group (p < 0.05). Statistically significant improvement in vaginal dryness in the EstroG-100 group was also observed compared with that of the placebo group (p < 0.05). In conclusion, EstroG-100 significantly improved the menopausal symptoms of pre-, peri- and post-menopausal women without weight gain or any serious side effects.

UI  - 21872452
TI  - Neural correlates of sleepiness induced by catecholamine depletion.
AB  - Although extensive indirect evidence exists to suggest that the central dopaminergic system plays a significant role in the modulation of arousal, the functional effect of the dopaminergic influence on the regulation of the sleep-wake cycle remains unclear. Thirteen healthy volunteers and 15 unmedicated subjects with a history of major depressive disorder underwent catecholamine depletion (CD) using oral alpha-methyl-para-tyrosine in a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, crossover study. The main outcome measures in both sessions were sleepiness (Stanford-Sleepiness-Scale), cerebral glucose metabolism (positron emission tomography), and serum prolactin concentration. CD consistently induced clinically relevant sleepiness in both groups. The CD-induced prolactin increase significantly correlated with CD-induced sleepiness but not with CD-induced mood and anxiety symptoms. CD-induced sleepiness correlated with CD-induced increases in metabolism in the medial and orbital frontal cortex, bilateral superior temporal cortex, left insula, cingulate motor area and in the vicinity of the periaqueductal gray. This study suggests that the association between dopamine depletion and sleepiness is independent of the brain reward system and the risk for depression. The visceromotor system, the cingulate motor area, the periaqueductal gray and the caudal hypothalamus may mediate the impact of the dopaminergic system on regulation of wakefulness and sleep.

UI  - 21855408
TI  - Effectiveness of evening phototherapy for insomnia is reduced by bright daytime light exposure.
AB  - Greater light exposure during the daytime may decrease the ability of evening light, but not morning light, exposure to engender meaningful changes of circadian phase.

UI  - 21848573
TI  - The effectiveness of community day-long CBT-I workshops for participants with insomnia symptoms: a randomised controlled trial.
AB  - Insomnia is a very common and disabling symptom. Whilst evidence for the efficacy of cognitive behavioural therapy for people diagnosed with insomnia (CBT-I) is strong, few people seek help and not many services offer CBT-I. Less intensive adaptations of CBT-I have been shown to be valuable, and given the size of the problem and low rates of help-seeking, an accessible intervention with a large capacity is needed. Day-long CBT-I psycho-educational workshops (each for up to 30 people), to which members of the public with insomnia symptoms could self-refer, have been developed. This randomised controlled trial aimed to evaluate the effectiveness of these workshops. Baseline measures were taken from 151 participants, who were then randomised to experimental or waiting-list control groups. Scores of the experimental group and the control group were compared 3 months after baseline. Random effects models found a significant interaction between time and group, indicating differences between the control and experimental groups on the Insomnia Severity Index (ISI). Post hoc analyses indicated that ISI scores decreased significantly in the experimental group, but not in the control group. Promising results were also found on corroborative sleep diary measures. Access to the workshops was good, with 50% of participants having never previously sought help for sleep difficulties from their GP. CBT-I workshops proved to be both accessible and effective in reducing insomnia symptoms in the medium term. They may represent a feasible brief intervention with the potential to address unmet treatment needs of adults complaining of insomnia symptoms.

UI  - 21824454
TI  - Impact of stimulant pharmacotherapy on sleep quality: post hoc analyses of 2 large, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trials.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifiers: NCT00334880 and NCT00152022.

UI  - 21812260
TI  - [Intervention of tianwang buxin decoction combined with dormancy hygiene education for treatment of sub-healthy insomnia patients of yin deficiency fire excess syndrome].
AB  - Significant effect was achieved by TWBXD combined with DHE and by TWBXD alone. Their efficacies were equivalent, with high compliance and safety.

UI  - 21797835
TI  - Increasing walking and bright light exposure to improve sleep in community-dwelling persons with Alzheimer's disease: results of a randomized, controlled trial.
AB  - Walking, light exposure, and their combination are potentially effective treatments for improving sleep in community-dwelling persons with AD, but consistent adherence to treatment recommendations is required.

UI  - 21790620
TI  - A self-help book is better than sleep hygiene advice for insomnia: a randomized controlled comparative study.
AB  - The objective was to compare the effects of two types of written material for insomnia in a randomized trial with follow-up after three months. Insomniacs were recruited through newspaper advertisements to a web-based survey with validated questionnaires about sleep, anxiety, depression, and use of sleep medications. A self-help book focusing on cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia was compared to standard sleep hygiene advice; 77 and 78 participants were randomized to self-help book or sleep hygiene advice, respectively. The response rate was 81.9%. The self-help book gave significantly better scores on the sleep questionnaires compared to sleep hygiene advice. The proportion using sleep medications was reduced in the self-help book group, whereas it was increased in the sleep hygiene group. Compared to pre-treatment, the self-help book improved scores on the sleep (effect sizes 0.61-0.62) and depression (effect size 0.18) scales, whereas the sleep hygiene advice improved scores on some sleep scales (effect sizes 0.24-0.28), but worsened another (effect size -0.36). In addition, sleep hygiene advice increased the number of days per week where they took sleep medications (effect size -0.50). To conclude, in this randomized controlled trial, the self-help book improved sleep and reduced the proportion using sleep medications compared to sleep hygiene advice. The self-help book is an efficient low-threshold intervention, which is cheap and easily available for patients suffering from insomnia. Sleep hygiene advice also improved sleep at follow-up, but increased sleep medication use. Thus, caution is warranted when sleep hygiene advice are given as a single treatment.

UI  - 21789650
TI  - Neurofeedback for insomnia: a pilot study of Z-score SMR and individualized protocols.
AB  - Insomnia is an epidemic in the US. Neurofeedback (NFB) is a little used, psychophysiological treatment with demonstrated usefulness for treating insomnia. Our objective was to assess whether two distinct Z-Score NFB protocols, a modified sensorimotor (SMR) protocol and a sequential, quantitative EEG (sQEEG)-guided, individually designed (IND) protocol, would alleviate sleep and associated daytime dysfunctions of participants with insomnia. Both protocols used instantaneous Z scores to determine reward condition administered when awake. Twelve adults with insomnia, free of other mental and uncontrolled physical illnesses, were randomly assigned to the SMR or IND group. Eight completed this randomized, parallel group, single-blind study. Both groups received fifteen 20-min sessions of Z-Score NFB. Pre-post assessments included sQEEG, mental health, quality of life, and insomnia status. ANOVA yielded significant post-treatment improvement for the combined group on all primary insomnia scores: Insomnia Severity Index (ISI p<.005), Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Inventory (PSQI p<.0001), PSQI Sleep Efficiency (p<.007), and Quality of Life Inventory (p<.02). Binomial tests of baseline EEGs indicated a significant proportion of excessively high levels of Delta and Beta power (p<.001) which were lowered post-treatment (paired z-tests p<.001). Baseline EEGs showed excessive sleepiness and hyperarousal, which improved post-treatment. Both Z-Score NFB groups improved in sleep and daytime functioning. Post-treatment, all participants were normal sleepers. Because there were no significant differences in the findings between the two groups, our future large scale studies will utilize the less burdensome to administer Z-Score SMR protocol.

UI  - 21778151
TI  - Varenicline versus bupropion XL for smoking cessation in older adolescents: a randomized, double-blind pilot trial.
AB  - These preliminary results support the feasibility and safety of conducting adequately powered, placebo-controlled efficacy studies of varenicline and bupropion XL for adolescent smoking cessation.

UI  - 21775910
TI  - Effect of valerian on sleep quality in postmenopausal women: a randomized placebo-controlled clinical trial.
AB  - Valerian improves the quality of sleep in women with menopause who are experiencing insomnia. Findings from this study add support to the reported effectiveness of valerian in the clinical management of insomnia.

UI  - 21723905
TI  - Patients with insomnia and subthreshold depression show marked worsening of insomnia after discontinuation of sleep promoting medication.
AB  - Patients with subthreshold depression, even if the depressive symptoms do not fulfill the time criteria for depressive episode, show marked worsening of insomnia after discontinuation of sleep promoting medication.

UI  - 21711155
TI  - Sequelae of breast cancer and the influence of menopausal status at diagnosis among rural breast cancer survivors.
AB  - Negative physical and psychosocial sequelae of breast cancer were common in this rural sample and were significantly worse for premenopausal women. Research and resources are needed for delivering targeted survivorship care to rural women, particularly younger rural women.

UI  - 21683660
TI  - Light therapy for seniors in long term care.
AB  - Blue light treatment led to significant cognitive improvements compared with placebo red light and may be a promising environmental intervention to reduce cognitive symptoms in elderly, long-term care residents.

UI  - 21681607
TI  - Modeling sleep data for a new drug in development using markov mixed-effects models.
AB  - The proposed accelerated model-building strategy resulted in a model well describing sleep patterns of insomnia patients with and without treatments.

UI  - 21678167
TI  - The benefits of expressive writing on sleep difficulty and appearance concerns for college women.
AB  - The college years represent an important developmental period in the lives of young women, who report health-related difficulties such as sleep disturbance and body/eating concerns. This study explored whether expressive writing (EW) can decrease health-relevant complaints among college women. College females (n=111) were randomised into an EW condition (writing about body concerns) or a control writing condition and completed three 15-min writing sessions. Results indicate that participants in the EW condition reported less sleep difficulty and less body-focused upward social comparison at 8-week follow-up, relative to control participants. For individuals who reported higher perceived stress at baseline, the EW condition resulted in less eating disturbance and less social comparison, relative to the control condition. The effect of EW on eating disturbance for those who were high in stress was partially mediated by the change in upward social comparisons focused on one's body. These findings suggest that EW about body image and appearance concerns may positively influence the trajectory of risk for, or resilience against, future complications as a result of sleep difficulty, eating disturbance and body dissatisfaction.

UI  - 21658476
TI  - I-CAN SLEEP: rationale and design of a non-inferiority RCT of Mindfulness-based Stress Reduction and Cognitive Behavioral Therapy for the treatment of Insomnia in CANcer survivors.
AB  - Considering the high prevalence of distress and sleep disturbances in the cancer population, should MBSR produce sleep effects comparable to CBT-I, it may be more comprehensive - making it the treatment of choice for addressing cancer-related psychological sequelae.

UI  - 21640548
TI  - A Phase II dose titration study of thalidomide for cancer-associated anorexia.
AB  - Thalidomide reduced multiple symptoms commonly associated with cancer-related anorexia and improved QOL. Our findings confirmed and validated a previously published single-arm trial. A recent randomized trial demonstrated greater benefits when thalidomide is used combined with other agents to treat cancer-associated anorexia and cachexia. Thalidomide helped cancer-associated anorexia in most patients. It also improved insomnia and QOL in advanced cancer.

UI  - 21629370
TI  - Electroacupuncture for residual insomnia associated with major depressive disorder: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Compared with placebo acupuncture, electroacupuncture and minimal acupuncture resulted in greater improvement in subjective sleep measures at 1 week and 4 week post-treatment. No significant difference was found between electroacupuncture and minimal acupuncture, suggesting that the observed differences could be due to nonspecific effects of needling, regardless of whether it is done according to traditional Chinese medicine theory.

UI  - 21623982
TI  - Cognitive, psychomotor and polysomnographic effects of trazodone in primary insomniacs.
AB  - Trazodone is prescribed widely as a sleep aid, although it is indicated for depression, not insomnia. Its daytime cognitive and psychomotor effects have not been investigated systematically in insomniacs. The primary goal of this study was to quantify, in primary insomniacs, the hypnotic efficacy of trazodone and subsequent daytime impairments. Sixteen primary insomniacs (mean age 44 years) participated, with insomnia confirmed by overnight polysomnography (sleep efficiency  85%). Trazodone 50 mg was administered to participants 30 min before bedtime for 7 days in a 3-week, within-subjects, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled design. Subjective effects, equilibrium (anterior/posterior body sway), short-term memory, verbal learning, simulated driving and muscle endurance were assessed the morning after days 1 and 7 of drug administration. Sleep was evaluated with overnight polysomnography and modified Multiple Sleep Latency Tests (MSLT) on days 1 and 7. Trazodone produced small but significant impairments of short-term memory, verbal learning, equilibrium and arm muscle endurance across time-points. Relative to placebo across test days, trazodone was associated with fewer night-time awakenings, minutes of Stage 1 sleep and self-reports of difficulty sleeping. On day 7 only, slow wave sleep was greater and objective measures of daytime sleepiness lower with trazodone than with placebo. Although trazodone is efficacious for sleep maintenance difficulties, its associated cognitive and motor impairments may provide a modest caveat to health-care providers.

UI  - 21608222
TI  - [Analysis of symptom compositions in sub-health insomnia patients of Yin deficiency fire hyperactivity syndrome and Xin-Pi deficiency syndrome].
AB  - There was no significant difference in main symptoms between the two syndrome types. Some unique symptoms occurred in the two syndrome types as minor symptoms. There was difference in sleep quality compositions.

UI  - 21601519
TI  - Dissection of the factors driving the placebo effect in hypnotic treatment of depressed insomniacs.
AB  - Factors that have been associated with the "placebo effect" are operating in hypnotic clinical trials. However, the role of each factor differs depending upon which self-reported variable is being considered. The findings have implications for clinical trial design in insomnia.

UI  - 21593661
TI  - A randomized cross-over study to compare raltegravir and efavirenz (SWITCH-ER study).
AB  - Half of patients previously on a stable EFV preferred to switch to RAL, after double-blind exposure to RAL for 2 weeks. Substitution of EFV by RAL significantly impacted on lipid levels, stress, and anxiety scores.

UI  - 21570345
TI  - Night-to-night variability of sleep latency significantly predicts the magnitude of subsequent change in sleep latency during placebo administration.
AB  - The importance of night-to-night variability of sSL in sleep assessment is highlighted. Excluding patients with high variability of lead-in sSL should be considered in clinical studies evaluating an effect on sleep onset, especially in the early stages of clinical development.

UI  - 21550589
TI  - A randomised controlled trial of cognitive-behaviour therapy for behavioural insomnia of childhood in school-aged children.
AB  - Chronic sleep problems can lead to the development of Behavioural Insomnia of Childhood - a sleep disorder involving problematic sleep-onset associations (i.e., parental presence), and resulting in impairments for children and family members. The aim of the present paper was to perform a controlled evaluation of cognitive-behaviour therapy (CBT) for Behavioural Insomnia. 42 children (M = 9.3  1.9 yrs, range 7-13 yrs, 18f, 24 m) were randomised to CBT (N = 21) or waitlist control (N = 21). CBT consisted of 6 sessions, and combined behavioural sleep medicine techniques (e.g., sleep restriction) with anxiety treatment techniques (e.g., cognitive restructuring). Compared to waitlist controls, children receiving CBT showed significant improvements in sleep latency, wake after sleep onset, and sleep efficiency (all p  .003), but not total sleep time (p > .05). CBT was also associated with a reduction in problematic sleep associations (p  .001), child-reported total and separation anxiety (both p  .01), with all gains being maintained 6 months post-treatment. This is the first controlled study to demonstrate that multi-component CBT can be effective for the sleep, insomnia, and anxiety symptoms of Behavioural Insomnia of Childhood in school-aged children. Future research is needed to ascertain active treatment components.

UI  - 21538678
TI  - Initial evaluation of an Internet intervention to improve the sleep of cancer survivors with insomnia.
AB  - CBT-I delivered through an interactive, individually tailored Internet intervention may be a viable treatment option for cancer survivors experiencing insomnia.

UI  - 21482029
TI  - Subjective sleep disturbance during a smoking cessation program: associations with relapse.
AB  - Although mild to severe drowsiness was reported by more women who relapsed than those who remained abstinent, none of the sleep disturbance symptoms predicted smoking relapse. Given high rates of sleep disturbances among women smokers, better prospective evaluations of the relationship of sleep disturbances to smoking cessation treatment outcome are needed.

UI  - 21471305
TI  - Smoking-related correlates of depressive symptom dimensions in treatment-seeking smokers.
AB  - Relations of depressive symptoms to tobacco dependence, smoking rate, and motivation may be explained by (a) variance specific to dysphoria symptoms and (b) shared variance across depressive symptom subdimensions. Dysphoria symptoms, which contain core DSM-IV depression criteria, may be central to depression-smoking comorbidity, whereas other symptoms may play a less prominent role.

UI  - 21457679
TI  - Brief behavioral therapy for refractory insomnia in residual depression: an assessor-blind, randomized controlled trial.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00610259.

UI  - 21447050
TI  - Comparison of actigraphy with polysomnography and sleep logs in depressed insomniacs.
AB  - Actigraphy is increasingly used in the assessment and treatment of various clinical conditions, being a convenient and cost-effective method of capturing bodily movements over long periods of time. This study examined the use of actigraphy in the measurement of sleep of patients with depression and insomnia. Fifty-four patients diagnosed with a current major depressive episode and chronic insomnia underwent a baseline overnight study with concurrent actigraphic and polysomnography (PSG) monitoring, as well as subjective sleep diaries. Agreement between PSG, actigraphy and sleep diary measurements was evaluated using two-tailed t-tests, Pearson's correlations and the Bland-Altman concordance technique. The only significant difference found between actigraphy and PSG was in latency to persistent sleep, in which actigraphy underestimated sleep latency relative to PSG (P<0.05). There were moderate positive correlations between actigraphy and PSG for all variables. In contrast, significant differences were observed between sleep diaries and PSG for all sleep variables. Bland-Altman concordance diagrams also demonstrated that, while bias was limited between PSG and the other two measurement types, there were somewhat broad 95% limits of agreement for all sleep variables with both sleep diaries and actigraphy. In summary, actigraphic measurements of sleep more closely approximated those of PSG than did sleep diaries in this sample of depressed insomniacs.

UI  - 21399726
TI  - The use of Valeriana officinalis (Valerian) in improving sleep in patients who are undergoing treatment for cancer: a phase III randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind study (NCCTG Trial, N01C5).
AB  - Sleep disorders are a substantial problem for cancer survivors, with prevalence estimates ranging from 23% to 61%. Although numerous prescription hypnotics are available, few are approved for long-term use or have demonstrated benefit in this circumstance. Hypnotics may have unwanted side effects and are costly, and cancer survivors often wish to avoid prescription drugs. New options with limited side effects are needed. The purpose of this trial was to evaluate the efficacy of a Valerian officinalis supplement for sleep in people with cancer who were undergoing cancer treatment. Participants were randomized to receive 450 mg of valerian-or placebo orally 1 hour before bedtime for 8 weeks. The primary end point was area under the curve (AUC) of the overall Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI). Secondary outcomes included the Functional Outcomes of Sleep Questionnaire, the Brief Fatigue Inventory (BFI), and the Profile of Mood States (POMS). Toxicity was evaluated with both self-reported numeric analogue scale questions and the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 3.0. Questionnaires were completed at baseline and at 4 and 8 weeks. A total of 227 patients were randomized into this study between March 19, 2004, and March 9, 2007, with 119 being evaluable for the primary end point. The AUC over the 8 weeks for valerian was 51.4 (SD = 16), while that for placebo was 49.7 (SD = 15), with a P value of 0.6957. A supplemental, exploratory analysis revealed that several fatigue end points, as measured by the BFI and POMS, were significantly better for those taking valerian over placebo. Participants also reported less trouble with sleep and less drowsiness on valerian than placebo. There were no significant differences in toxicities as measured by self-report or the CTCAE except for mild alkaline phosphatase increases, which were slightly more common in the placebo group. This study failed to provide data to support the hypothesis that valerian, 450 mg, at bedtime could improve sleep as measured by the PSQI. However, exploratory analyses revealed improvement in some secondary outcomes, such as fatigue. Further research with valerian exploring physiologic effects in oncology symptom management may be warranted.

UI  - 21397868
TI  - Mindfulness-based stress reduction versus pharmacotherapy for chronic primary insomnia: a randomized controlled clinical trial.
AB  - Between baseline and eight weeks, sleep onset latency (SOL) measured by actigraphy decreased 8.9 minutes in the MBSR arm (P < .05). Large, significant improvements were found on the ISI, PSQI, and diary-measured total sleep time, SOL, and sleep efficiency (P < .01, all) from baseline to five-month follow-up in the MBSR arm. Changes of comparable magnitude were found in the PCT arm. Twenty-seven of 30 patients completed their assigned treatment. This study provides initial evidence for the efficacy of MBSR as a viable treatment for chronic insomnia as measured by sleep diary, actigraphy, well-validated sleep scales, and measures of remission and clinical recovery.

UI  - 21392474
TI  - A double-blind, randomized, comparative study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of zaleplon versus zolpidem in shortening sleep latency in primary insomnia.
AB  - There was no significant difference between zaleplon and zolpidem in the efficacy of reducing sleep latency or adverse effects. A large pharmacovigilance study is needed before concluding that either zolpidem or zaleplon is free from next-day residual effects.

UI  - 21386714
TI  - Acupuncture for treatment of insomnia in patients with traumatic brain injury: a pilot intervention study.
AB  - : Acupuncture has a beneficial effect on perception of sleep or sleep quality and on cognition in our small sample of patients with TBI. Further studies of this treatment modality are warranted to validate these findings and to explore factors that contribute to treatment efficacy.

UI  - 21377144
TI  - Cognitive-behavioral therapy for insomnia in alcohol dependent patients: a randomized controlled pilot trial.
AB  - In a randomized controlled trial, we evaluated the efficacy of cognitive-behavioral treatment for insomnia to improve sleep and daytime symptoms, and to reduce relapse in recovering alcohol dependent (AD) participants. Seventeen abstinent AD patients with insomnia (6 women, mean age 46.2  10.1 years) were randomized to 8 sessions of cognitive-behavioral treatment for insomnia for AD (CBTI-AD, n=9) or to a behavioral placebo treatment (BPT, n=8). Subjective measures of sleep, daytime consequences of insomnia and AD, alcohol use, and treatment fidelity were collected at baseline and post-treatment. Diary-rated sleep efficiency and wake after sleep onset, and daytime ratings of General Fatigue on the Multidimensional Fatigue Inventory improved more in the CBTI-AD compared to the BPT group. In addition, more subjects were classified as treatment responders following CBTI-AD. No group differences were found in the number of participants who relapsed to any drinking or who relapsed to heavy drinking. The findings suggest that cognitive-behavioral insomnia therapy benefits subjective sleep and daytime symptoms in recovering AD participants with insomnia more than placebo. The benefits of treating insomnia on drinking outcomes are less apparent.

UI  - 21367359
TI  - Cognitive behavioural treatment of insomnia in individuals with persistent persecutory delusions: a pilot trial.
AB  - These preliminary findings suggest that CBT-I can be used to treat insomnia in individuals with persecutory delusions and that, consistent with the hypothesised causal role, it also lessens the delusions.

UI  - 21367356
TI  - A randomized placebo-controlled trial of asenapine for the prevention of relapse of schizophrenia after long-term treatment.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier NCT00150176.

UI  - 21367352
TI  - Eszopiclone for the treatment of posttraumatic stress disorder and associated insomnia: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00120250.

UI  - 21357344
TI  - Coexistence of sleep and feeding disturbances in young children.
AB  - Problematic sleep and feeding behaviors tend to coexist in early childhood. Increased awareness of clinicians to this coexistence may allow early intervention and improve outcome.

UI  - 21346020
TI  - Cognitive-behavioral therapy for insomnia improves attentional function in fibromyalgia syndrome: a pilot, randomized controlled trial.
AB  - This pilot, randomized controlled trial analyzed the effects of a cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT, n = 20) for insomnia vs a sleep hygiene (SH, n = 20) program on the three attentional networks (alertness, orienting, and executive function) and other additional outcome measures (sleep, pain, depression, anxiety, and daily functioning) of fibromyalgia patients. The CBT group showed significant improvement in alertness (F(1, 28) = 11.84, p = .0018), executive functioning (F(1, 28) = 15.76, p = .00059), sleep quality ( F(1, 38) = 6.33, p = .016), and a trend to improvement in daily functioning (p > .06), as compared with the SH group. The improvement in executive functioning was significantly related to the changes in sleep (r = 0.40, p = .026). A CBT for insomnia represents a useful intervention in fibromyalgia patients not only regarding sleep disturbance but also attentional dysfunction and probably daily functioning.

UI  - 21344046
TI  - A multi-component cognitive-behavioral intervention for sleep disturbance in veterans with PTSD: a pilot study.
AB  - Findings demonstrate that an intervention targeting trauma-specific sleep disturbance produces large short-term effects, including substantial reductions in PTSD symptoms and insomnia severity. Future research should focus on the optimal approach to the treatment of comorbid PTSD and sleep disturbance in terms of sequencing, and should assure that sleep-focused interventions are available and acceptable to our younger veterans, who were more likely to drop out of treatment.

UI  - 21340475
TI  - Evaluation of sleep, puberty and mental health in children with long-term melatonin treatment for chronic idiopathic childhood sleep onset insomnia.
AB  - This follow-up study demonstrates that melatonin treatment in children can be sustained over a long period of time without substantial deviation of the development of children with respect to sleep quality, puberty development and mental health scores, as compared with the general Dutch population.

UI  - 21333698
TI  - Cognitive performance and cardiovascular markers of hyperarousal in primary insomnia.
AB  - The purpose of the present study was to assess differences in cardiovascular activity and cognitive performance between insomniacs and good sleepers. Sixteen undergraduates participated in the study, eight insomniacs (age 22.9  2.4) enrolled in accord with DSM-IV criteria for primary insomnia, and eight good sleepers (24.8  2.7) were controls. The task employed, Stop Signal Task, assesses motor inhibition processes and was administered in two sessions, before and after a night of polysomnographic recording. During task performance, cardiovascular measures such as heart rate (HR), stroke volume (SV), cardiac output (CO), pre-ejection period (PEP) and left ventricular ejection time (LVET) were continuously recorded by means of impedance cardiography. Performance results showed prolonged Stop Signal Delay (SSD) in the morning in both groups and slower Stop Signal Reaction Time (SSRT) in insomniacs compared with good sleepers, while no effects were observed for performance accuracy. Analyses performed on cardiovascular parameters revealed higher HR and lower LVET values in the insomnia group as compared to healthy controls in the evening. PEP, an index inversely related to sympathetic beta-adrenergic activity, was continuously reduced in insomniacs, indicating constantly enhanced sympathetic activation. These findings suggest a deficit of motor inhibition control in insomnia, matched with high levels of cardiovascular arousal. Overall, our results support the notion that insomniacs suffer from both cognitive deficits and a hyperarousal disorder affecting somatic activity, that contribute to diurnal complaints often referred in addition to sleep disruption.

UI  - 21326120
TI  - The relationship of subjective sleep quality and cardiac autonomic nervous system in postmenopausal women with insomnia under auricular acupressure.
AB  - This study suggests that AA intervention leads to more cardiac parasympathetic and less cardiac sympathetic activity, which contributes to the improvement of PI.

UI  - 21306209
TI  - Efficacy and safety of ramelteon in Japanese adults with chronic insomnia: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study.
AB  - This randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study assessed the efficacy and safety of ramelteon 4 and 8 mg in Japanese adults with chronic insomnia. A secondary objective was to evaluate efficacy and safety when doses were uptitrated from placebo, ramelteon 4 and 8 mg to 4, 8 and 16 mg, respectively. Patient-reported sleep data were collected using sleep diaries. There was no statistically significant difference between ramelteon and placebo in the change in subjective sleep latency (sSL) in the full analysis set (n = 1130). Significant improvement was observed in the change in subjective total sleep time with ramelteon 8 mg at week 1. In post hoc analyses, ramelteon 8 mg reduced sSL in individuals with smaller fluctuations (within 30 min) of sSL at baseline, in those with a shorter (<1 year) history of insomnia and in individuals who had not used benzodiazepines. Ramelteon up to 16 mg nightly was safe and well tolerated.

UI  - 21296508
TI  - Sleep disturbance and the effects of extended-release zolpidem during cannabis withdrawal.
AB  - These data extend prior research that indicates abrupt abstinence from cannabis can lead to clinically significant sleep disruption in daily users. The findings also indicate that sleep disruption associated with cannabis withdrawal can be attenuated by zolpidem, suggesting that hypnotic medications might be useful adjunct pharmacotherapies in the treatment of cannabis use disorders.

UI  - 21286241
TI  - Twelve months of nightly zolpidem does not lead to dose escalation: a prospective placebo-controlled study.
AB  - Zolpidem was preferred to placebo, but its self-administration did not increase with 12 months of use. Chronic hypnotic use by primary insomniacs does not lead to dose escalation.

UI  - 21277255
TI  - Long-term safety and efficacy of ramelteon in Japanese patients with chronic insomnia.
AB  - Ramelteon was well tolerated in adult Japanese patients with chronic insomnia and did not cause deterioration of efficacy, residual effects, rebound insomnia, withdrawal symptoms, or dependence after 24 weeks' treatment.

UI  - 21263078
TI  - Efficacy of brief behavioral treatment for chronic insomnia in older adults.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00177203.

UI  - 21256803
TI  - Evaluation of subjective efficacy and safety of ramelteon in Japanese subjects with chronic insomnia.
AB  - In Japanese adults with chronic insomnia, ramelteon 8 mg significantly reduced patient-reported sleep latency, increased total sleep time and improved sleep quality after 1 week of treatment. Ramelteon was generally well tolerated with no rebound insomnia.

UI  - 21247563
TI  - Influence of employment status on menopausal symptoms.
AB  - The present study indicates that the employment status might contribute to significant variations in climacteric symptomatology.

UI  - 21246844
TI  - [Effect of acupuncture treatment of relieving depression and regulating mind on insomnia accompanied with depressive disorders].
AB  - Acupuncture treatment of relieving depression and regulating mind is superior to Trazodone with oral administration for sleep quality and daytime function, with milder adverse reactions.

UI  - 21241447
TI  - Effects of laughter therapy on depression, cognition and sleep among the community-dwelling elderly.
AB  - Laughter therapy is considered to be useful, cost-effective and easily-accessible intervention that has positive effects on depression, insomnia, and sleep quality in the elderly.

UI  - 21226679
TI  - The effect of melatonin, magnesium, and zinc on primary insomnia in long-term care facility residents in Italy: a double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial.
AB  - The administration of nightly melatonin, magnesium, and zinc appears to improve the quality of sleep and the quality of life in long-term care facility residents with primary insomnia.

UI  - 21223673
TI  - [Auricular acupuncture for insomnia:a randomized controlled trial].
AB  - Evidence was found to support the hypothesis that AAT played an effective role in improving the quantity and quality of sleep in those subjects with insomnia. A standardized AAT might help the treatment of insomnia, especially when combined with other treatments as psychological and behavioral therapies.

UI  - 21208597
TI  - Improved insomnia symptoms and sleep-related next-day functioning in patients with comorbid major depressive disorder and insomnia following concomitant zolpidem extended-release 12.5 mg and escitalopram treatment: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00296179.

UI  - 21208574
TI  - A post hoc analysis of the effect of nightly administration of eszopiclone and a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor in patients with insomnia and anxious depression.
AB  - In this post hoc analysis of patients with insomnia and comorbid anxious depression derived from 2 trials, 8 weeks of eszopiclone therapy coadministered with an SSRI resulted in significantly greater improvements in insomnia, significantly greater reductions in HDRS-17 total score, and significantly greater HDRS-17 response rates compared with placebo coadministration. There were no significant differences in response rates (when insomnia items were excluded) and remission rates, as well as in anxiety/somatization scores. Further research is warranted to determine whether these modest antidepressant effects can be replicated, and anxiolytic effects demonstrated, when evaluated in a prospective manner.

UI  - 21206546
TI  - Effectiveness of ramelteon for insomnia symptoms in older adults with obstructive sleep apnea: a randomized placebo-controlled pilot study.
AB  - Ramelteon was effective in improving objective, but not subjective, sleep onset latency even in older adults who were starting APAP therapy for sleep apnea. Further research is warranted in examining the role of ramelteon in the care of older adults with insomnia symptoms and sleep apnea.

UI  - 21196805
TI  - Health effects on leaders and co-workers of an art-based leadership development program.
AB  - Our findings indicate a more beneficial long-term health effect of the art-based intervention compared to a conventional approach. Positive results for both standardized questionnaires and biological parameters strengthened the findings. The study provides a rationale for further evaluation of the effectiveness of this alternative educational approach.

UI  - 21192797
TI  - Study protocol: the sleeping sound with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder project.
AB  - Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN68819261. ISRCTN: ISRCTN68819261.

UI  - 21192153
TI  - Long-term safety of OROS methylphenidate in adults with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder: an open-label, dose-titration, 1-year study.
AB  - OROS methylphenidate, in the flexible dosage range from 36 to 108 mg/d, was well tolerated for up to 1 year in adults with ADHD.

UI  - 21183916
TI  - [Vinpotropil in the treatment of dyscirculatory encephalopathy with cognitive impairment without dementia].
AB  - The fixed combination containing 5 mg of vinpocetine and 400 mg of pyracetam (vinpotropil) was prescribed to 349 patients with dyscirculatory encephalopathy, I-II stages in dose one capsule three times a day during 3 months. After this treatment, repeated neuropsychological testing showed significant diminishing of dysexecutive cognitive impairment linked with frontal lobes dysfunction. The cognitive improvement was associated with the regress of subjective neurological symptoms like headache, dizziness, tinnitus, fatigue and insomnia. Vinpotropil was safe and well tolerated in elderly patients with chronic cerebral vascular insufficiency.

UI  - 21107748
TI  - Propofol-induced sleep: efficacy and safety in patients with refractory chronic primary insomnia.
AB  - Insomnia, defined as difficulty in falling asleep and/or staying asleep, short sleep duration, or poor quality sleep, is a common sleep disorder affecting 30-40% of adult population. We have conducted a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study to test if anesthesia is therapeutically beneficial in patients with refractory chronic primary insomnia. We have assessed the efficacy and safety of propofol-induced sleep in these patients. This study comprised of 103 patients with refractory chronic primary insomnia (including 59 non-pregnant, non-lactating women; 28-60 years) and the participants were randomized to receive either physiological saline (placebo) (n = 39) or 3.0 g/l propofol (n = 64) in a 2-h continuous intravenous infusion for five consecutive nights. The Leeds Sleep Evaluation Questionnaire was used for the subjective assessment of sleep, and polysomnography was used for the objective measurement of sleep architecture and patterns. The assessments were done prior to and at the end of the 5-day treatment and 6 months after treatment period. The adverse effects of the treatment were also recorded. A 2-h continuous intravenous infusion of 3.0 g/l propofol for five consecutive nights improved the subjective and objective assessments of sleep in 64 patients with refractory chronic primary insomnia. This improvement occurred immediately after the therapy and persisted for 6 months. No serious adverse events were noticed during the period of drug administration or 6 months after the treatment. Propofol therapy is an efficacious and safe choice for restoring normal sleep in patients with refractory chronic primary insomnia.

UI  - 21105284
TI  - Next-day residual sedative effect after nighttime administration of an over-the-counter antihistamine sleep aid, diphenhydramine, measured by positron emission tomography.
AB  - Antihistamines often are self-administered at night as over-the-counter (OTC) sleep aids, but their next-day residual sedative effect has never been evaluated using a reliable quantitative method such as positron emission tomography (PET). We performed a double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover study in which we evaluated the residual effect the next day after nighttime administration of diphenhydramine, a commonly used OTC sleep aid, in terms of brain H receptor occupancy (HRO) measured using C-doxepin-PET. We also compared the results of diphenhydramine with those of bepotastine, a second-generation antihistamine. Eight healthy adult male subjects underwent PET measurement the morning (11:00) after random oral administration of diphenhydramine (50 mg), bepotastine (10 mg), or placebo the night before (23:00). Binding potential ratios and HROs were calculated in different brain regions of interest such as the cingulate gyrus, frontotemporal cortex, and cerebellum. Subjective sleepiness and plasma drug concentration also were measured. Calculation of binding potential ratios revealed significantly lower values for diphenhydramine than for bepotastine or placebo in all regions of interest (P < 0.01). Cortical mean HRO after diphenhydramine treatment was 44.7% compared with 16.6% for bepotastine treatment (P < 0.01). Subjective sleepiness was not significantly different among the subjects treated with each test drug or the placebo. In conclusion, the next-day residual sedative effect after nighttime administration of the OTC sleep aid diphenhydramine was verified for the first time by direct PET measurement of HRO. Taking into account the possible hangover effect of OTC antihistamine sleep aids, care needs to be taken during their administration.

UI  - 21102998
TI  - Alterations in cyclic alternating pattern associated with phase advanced sleep are differentially modulated by gaboxadol and zolpidem.
AB  - disruptions in CAP produced by phase advanced sleep were significantly and differentially modulated by gaboxadol and zolpidem. The relative independence of CAP parameters from other electrophysiological measures of sleep, their high sensitivity to sleep disruption, and their strong association with subjective sleep quality suggest that CAP variables may serve as valuable endpoints in future insomnia research.

UI  - 21102997
TI  - Efficacy and Safety of Doxepin 1 mg and 3 mg in a 12-week Sleep Laboratory and Outpatient Trial of Elderly Subjects with Chronic Primary Insomnia.
AB  - DXP 1 mg and 3 mg administered nightly to elderly chronic insomnia patients for 12 weeks resulted in significant and sustained improvements in most endpoints. These improvements were not accompanied by evidence of next-day residual sedation or other significant adverse effects. DXP also demonstrated improvements in both patient- and physician-based ratings of global insomnia outcome. The efficacy of DXP at the doses used in this study is noteworthy with respect to sleep maintenance and early morning awakenings given that these are the primary sleep complaints of the elderly. This study, the longest placebo-controlled, double-blind, polysomnographic trial of nightly pharmacotherapy for insomnia in the elderly, provides the best evidence to date of the sustained efficacy and safety of an insomnia medication in older adults.

UI  - 21099666
TI  - A phase IV, double-blind, multicentre, randomized, placebo-controlled, pilot study to assess the feasibility of switching individuals receiving efavirenz with continuing central nervous system adverse events to etravirine.
AB  - Switching EFV to ETR led to a significant reduction in overall G2-4 CNS adverse events, including insomnia, abnormal dreams and nervousness as individual adverse event. Lack of improvement for some events suggests other causative factors.

UI  - 21091391
TI  - Prolonged release melatonin in the treatment of primary insomnia: evaluation of the age cut-off for short- and long-term response.
AB  - The results demonstrate short- and long-term efficacy of PRM in insomnia patients aged 18-80 years, particularly those aged 55 and over. PRM was well-tolerated over the entire 6-month period with no rebound or withdrawal symptoms following discontinuation. Study Registry No: ClinicalTrials.gov ID: NCT00397189.

UI  - 21076278
TI  - A randomized crossover study to compare efavirenz and etravirine treatment.
AB  - After substitution of EFV by ETR, patients did not express a significant preference for ETR. There was no measurable effect on neuropsychiatric symptoms and sleep. Cholesterol decreased.

UI  - 21053624
TI  - Acupuncture plus cupping for treating insomnia in college students.
AB  - The therapeutic effect in the treatment group was better than that in the control group, showing superiority in the cases with moderate insomnia with less treatments and more improved and cured rates.

UI  - 20957846
TI  - The long-term tolerability and efficacy of armodafinil in patients with excessive sleepiness associated with treated obstructive sleep apnea, shift work disorder, or narcolepsy: an open-label extension study.
AB  - Armodafinil remained effective and was generally well tolerated. Increased monitoring of blood pressure may be appropriate in patients on armodafinil. Armodafinil represents an option for long-term treatment of patients with ES associated with treated OSA, SWD, or narcolepsy.

UI  - 20921890
TI  - An open-label tolerability study of BL-1020 antipsychotic: a novel gamma aminobutyric acid ester of perphenazine.
AB  - These data suggest that 20 to 40 mg/d of BL-1020 is associated with clinically relevant improvement of psychosis with no worsening of EPS and support further testing in randomized controlled trials.

UI  - 20886790
TI  - [Effect of scalp point penetration needling on sleep quality and sleep structure of insomnia patients].
AB  - The scalp point penetration needling has more significant effects for improving the sleep quality and sleep structure of insomnia patients than the routine needling.

UI  - 20878849
TI  - Sleep aid use during and following breast cancer adjuvant chemotherapy.
AB  - Results reflect the natural course of CTX, recovery, and healing. Comprehensive screening for sleep-wake disturbances and sleep aid use may lead to a better understanding of the risks and benefits of pharmacologic and non-pharmacologic interventions, and ultimately lead to selection of the safest and most effective treatment.

UI  - 20872929
TI  - The effect of memantine on sleep behaviour in dementia with Lewy bodies and Parkinson's disease dementia.
AB  - Memantine decreases probable REM sleep behaviour disorder in patients with DLB and PDD. Both diagnostic groups contributed equally to the outcome.

UI  - 20861739
TI  - A randomized, placebo-controlled study of adjunctive ramelteon in ambulatory bipolar I disorder with manic symptoms and sleep disturbance.
AB  - This study evaluated the efficacy and tolerability of ramelteon in ambulatory bipolar I disorder with manic symptoms and insomnia. Twenty-one outpatients with bipolar I disorder by Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, fourth edition criteria with mild-to-moderate manic symptoms and sleep disturbance were randomized to receive either ramelteon (N=10) or placebo (N=11) in an 8-week, double-blind, fixed-dose (8 mg/day) study. Ramelteon and placebo had similar rates of reduction in ratings of symptoms of insomnia, mania, and global severity of illness. However, ramelteon was associated with improvement in a global rating of depressive symptoms. It was also well tolerated and associated with no serious adverse events. The small sample size may have limited the ability of the study to detect potentially clinically important drug-placebo differences. Further studies of ramelteon in subgroups of bipolar patients with sleep disturbance, including those with depression or euthymia, seem indicated.

UI  - 20860572
TI  - Tai Chi exercise versus rehabilitation for the elderly with cerebral vascular disorder: a single-blinded randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Tai Chi might therefore be considered a useful non-pharmacological approach, along with rehabilitation, for the maintenance of cognitive function in the elderly with CVD and might be a more useful non-pharmacological approach for the improvement of sleep quality and depressive symptoms in the elderly with CVD than rehabilitation.

UI  - 20848900
TI  - [Effect of "tranquilization needling" on the sleep quality in patients with insomnia of heart-spleen deficiency type].
AB  - Both TN and acupuncture of ECA can effectively improve insomnia patients' clinical symptoms, and the therapeutic effect of TN is more effective than that of ECA in shortening ramp duration and the total PSQI score.

UI  - 20826553
TI  - Variation in GNB3 predicts response and adverse reactions to antidepressants.
AB  - There is substantial inter-individual variation in response and adverse reactions to antidepressants, and genetic variation may, in part, explain these differences. GNB3 encodes the 3 subunit of the G protein complex, which is involved in the downstream signalling cascade following monoamine receptor activation. A functional polymorphism in this gene (C825T) has been associated with response to antidepressants. Several lines of evidence suggest that GNB3 moderates improvement in the neurovegetative symptoms of depression (such as sleep and appetite) and related adverse reactions independently of change in core mood symptoms. We here report analysis of data from GENDEP, a part-randomized pharmacogenomic trial, on the outcome of 811 subjects with major depression undergoing treatment with either escitalopram or nortriptyline in which the C825T SNP and three further SNPs in GNB3 were genotyped. The TT genotype was significantly associated with a superior response to nortriptyline and these effects were specific to improvements in neurovegetative symptoms. In addition, the same genotype predicted fewer incidents of treatment-emergent insomnia and greater weight gain on the same drug. Our results are consistent with previous associations with GNB3 and emphasize the importance of signalling genes in antidepressant response.

UI  - 20817598
TI  - Efficacy and safety of doxepin 6 mg in a model of transient insomnia.
AB  - In this model of transient insomnia, DXP 6mg demonstrated significant improvements in sleep onset, sleep maintenance, sleep duration and sleep quality, and also appeared to reduce early morning awakenings. These data suggest that DXP 6mg may be effective and well tolerated in adults experiencing transient insomnia.

UI  - 20813580
TI  - Aerobic exercise improves self-reported sleep and quality of life in older adults with insomnia.
AB  - Aerobic physical activity with sleep hygiene education is an effective treatment approach to improve sleep quality, mood and quality of life in older adults with chronic insomnia.

UI  - 20809354
TI  - Impact of psychotherapy on insomnia symptoms in patients with depression and multiple sclerosis.
AB  - The purpose of the study was to evaluate the prevalence of insomnia in multiple sclerosis patients with comorbid depression, associations between psychological symptoms, multiple sclerosis symptoms and insomnia, and to test effects of a 16-week protocol-based psychotherapy intervention for depression on insomnia symptoms. Participants with multiple sclerosis and depression (n=127) were randomized to telephone administered cognitive behavioral therapy and telephone administered supportive emotion-focused therapy. Multiple sclerosis functional limitation was measured at baseline. Depression, insomnia, anxiety and quality of life were evaluated at pre treatment, mid treatment (8weeks), and post treatment (16weeks). Prevalence of insomnia 3 times per week was 78% at pre treatment and 43% at post treatment. Insomnia at baseline was associated with depression, multiple sclerosis related mood symptoms and anxiety. Middle of the night awakenings were associated with swallowing and speech problems. Improvements in insomnia were associated with improvement in depression and anxiety. Participants with residual insomnia were more likely to have major depressive disorder, greater multiple sclerosis severity, elevated anxiety and lower mental components of quality of life. Results demonstrate rates of insomnia in patients with comorbid multiple sclerosis and depression are higher than those reported in the general multiple sclerosis population and additional insomnia treatment is indicated beyond the treatment of comorbid psychological disorders.

UI  - 20729765
TI  - Isoflavones decrease insomnia in postmenopause.
AB  - In postmenopausal women with insomnia, isoflavone treatment was effective in reducing insomnia symptoms, which was confirmed by increased sleep efficiency as observed by polysomnographic analysis.

UI  - 20728874
TI  - Is disturbed intracortical excitability a stable trait of chronic insomnia? A study using transcranial magnetic stimulation before and after multimodal sleep therapy.
AB  - The results suggest that a subtly disturbed intracortical excitability characterizes patients with chronic insomnia: a relatively reduced intracortical facilitation in the context of a globally increased absolute excitability. The findings do not resemble TMS findings after sleep deprivation or in sleep apnea and thus seem specific to insomnia. They may offer diagnostic value and implications for assessment of risk to develop this common and disabling disorder.

UI  - 20726279
TI  - Treatment of insomnia in depressed insomniacs: effects on health-related quality of life, objective and self-reported sleep, and depression.
AB  - ESZ treatment of insomnia in depressed patients is associated with multiple favorable outcomes, including superior improvement in HRQOL, depression severity, and sleep.

UI  - 20726278
TI  - The effect of vestibular stimulation in a four-hour sleep phase advance model of transient insomnia.
AB  - Vestibular stimulation did not have a therapeutic effect in a model of transient insomnia in the overall population studied. However, this study provides preliminary evidence that vestibular stimulation may shorten sleep onset latency compared with sham therapy in the subset of subjects with mean MSLT sleep onset latency > or = 14 minutes.

UI  - 20712869
TI  - Nightly treatment of primary insomnia with prolonged release melatonin for 6 months: a randomized placebo controlled trial on age and endogenous melatonin as predictors of efficacy and safety.
AB  - The results demonstrate short- and long-term efficacy and safety of PRM in elderly insomnia patients. Low melatonin production regardless of age is not useful in predicting responses to melatonin therapy in insomnia. The age cut-off for response warrants further investigation.

UI  - 20680680
TI  - Quality of life in women with metastatic breast cancer during 9 months after randomization in the TEX trial (epirubicin and paclitaxel w/o capecitabine).
AB  - The aim of this study was to compare the effects on health-related quality of life (HRQOL) of two treatment regimens in the TEX trial during 9 month from random assignment, with emphasis on the 2- and 9-months assessments. A total of 287 patients were randomized to treatment in 3-week cycles with either epirubicin plus paclitaxel (ET, 143 patients), or epirubicin, paclitaxel and capecitabine (TEX, 144 patients). HRQOL was assessed by the EORTC-QLQ C30 and EORTC QLQ-BR23 questionnaires at five points during 9 months. A total of 252 (88%) completed questionnaires before randomization. Response rate for the following assessments was >75%. There were no statistically significant differences between the TEX group and the ET group on any of the subscales 2 months after randomization. Small clinical differences (5-10 points) in favor of the ET group were found for global quality of life, role functioning, social functioning, and insomnia. At the 9-months assessment, the TEX group scored statistically significantly higher on global quality of life and physical functioning. Small clinically significant differences were found for global quality of life, physical functioning, role functioning, emotional functioning, dyspnoea, and insomnia, all in favour of the TEX group. At the 2-months assessment, when side-effects of chemotherapy were present, patients in the TEX group appeared to fare a bit worse than those receiving ET. However, after 9 months, when the patients had adapted to treatment, the TEX group seemed to have a slightly better quality of life.

UI  - 20673648
TI  - Effects of homeopathic medicines on polysomnographic sleep of young adults with histories of coffee-related insomnia.
AB  - The study demonstrated the feasibility of using in-home, all-night sleep recordings to study homeopathic remedy effects. Findings are similar though not identical to those reported in animals with the same remedies. Possible mechanisms include initial disruption of the nonlinear dynamics of sleep patterns by the verum remedies.

UI  - 20668840
TI  - Dose finding of melatonin for chronic idiopathic childhood sleep onset insomnia: an RCT.
AB  - No dose-response relationship of melatonin with SO, SOL, and DLMO is found within a dosage range of 0.05-0.15mg/kg. The effect of exogenous melatonin on SO, SOL, and DLMO increases with an earlier circadian TOA. The soporific effects of melatonin enhance the SO shift. This study demonstrates that melatonin for treatment of CSOI in children is effective in a dosage of 0.05mg/kg given at least 1 to 2h before DLMO and before desired bedtime.

UI  - 20653397
TI  - The assessment of efficacy of Diascorea alata for menopausal symptom treatment in Taiwanese women.
AB  - Compared with placebo, Diascorea alata improves symptoms, particularly the psychological parameters in menopausal women. Safety monitoring indicated that standardized extracts of Diascorea alata were safe during daily administration over a period of 12 months.

UI  - 20627268
TI  - Sleep locus of control and computerized cognitive-behavioral therapy (cCBT).
AB  - This study investigated the relationship between sleep locus of control and sleep in a secondary data analysis. Participants were 100 adults with chronic insomnia previously involved in a randomized controlled trial of 5 weeks of computerized cognitive-behavioral therapy (cCBT). Additionally, a sample of 46 completers of an in-person group for insomnia were utilized as a comparison group. At pre-treatment, participants completed the Sleep Locus of Control Scale, the Insomnia Severity Index, the Pre-Sleep Arousal Scale, 7 days of sleep diaries, and participated in structured interviews to assess for psychiatric and medical conditions. Measures were re-administered at post-treatment and at a 4 week follow-up. Results showed that sleep locus of control mediated the impact of cCBT on insomnia severity at follow-up. cCBT more than waiting list control or a convenience sample of individuals treated with in-person CBT, enhanced an internal sleep locus of control. Implications are that sleep locus of control may be an important variable to assess in the internet context and that internet programs for insomnia may want to consider amplifying or giving priority to interventions which enhance an internal sleep locus.

UI  - 20616669
TI  - The influence of menopause status and postmenopausal use of hormone therapy on presentation of major depression in women.
AB  - Menopause status and postmenopausal use of hormone therapy may influence the clinical presentation of major depressive episodes in women.

UI  - 20589875
TI  - Treatment of insomnia in Parkinson's disease: a controlled trial of eszopiclone and placebo.
AB  - Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common neurodegenerative disease affecting up to 1 million individuals in the United States. Sleep disturbances, typically in sleep maintenance, are found in up to 88% of these individuals and are associated with a variety of poor outcomes. Despite being common and important, there are few data to guide clinical care. We conducted a 6-week, randomized, controlled trial of eszopiclone and placebo in 30 patients with PD and insomnia. Patients with other primary sleep disorders (PSG defined) were excluded. The primary outcome was total sleep time (TST), and secondary measures included wake after sleep onset (WASO), number of awakenings, and quality of sleep, among others. The groups did not significantly differ on TST, but significant differences, favoring eszopiclone, did emerge in number of awakenings (P = 0.035), quality of sleep (P = 0.018), and in physician-rated CGI improvement (P = 0.035). There was also a trend toward significance in WASO (P = 0.071). There were no significant differences between groups in measures of daytime functioning. The drug was well tolerated, with 33% of patients on eszopiclone and 27% of patients on placebo reporting adverse events. Although modest in size, this is the first controlled study of the treatment of insomnia in patients with PD. Eszopiclone did not increase TST significantly but was superior to placebo in improving quality of sleep and some measures of sleep maintenance, which is the most common sleep difficulty experienced by patients with PD. Definitive trials of the treatment of sleep disorders in this population are warranted.

UI  - 20572421
TI  - Effect of acute physical exercise on patients with chronic primary insomnia.
AB  - Acute moderate-intensity aerobic exercise appears to reduce pre-sleep anxiety and improve sleep in patients with chronic primary insomnia.

UI  - 20572379
TI  - Quetiapine for primary insomnia: a double blind, randomized controlled trial.
AB  - The present study is the first study to evaluate the effect of Quetiapine in primary insomnia in a randomized controlled trial. Quetiapine at 25 mg at night did show a trend for improvement of TST and reduced SL in primary insomnia with few side effects but not reaching statistical significance. A study with a larger sample size is needed to demonstrate its efficacy.

UI  - 20547037
TI  - Effect of aripiprazole versus haloperidol on PANSS Prosocial items in early-episode patients with schizophrenia.
AB  - In patients with early-episode schizophrenia, aripiprazole demonstrates greater improvement than haloperidol on PANSS items related to social functioning. The cognitive and functional implications of these findings remain to be clarified in future studies.

UI  - 20537515
TI  - Effect of crocetin from Gardenia jasminoides Ellis on sleep: a pilot study.
AB  - Crocetin is a pharmacologically active carotenoid compound of Gardenia jasminoides Ellis used as a traditional herbal medicine and natural colorant. The present pilot study investigated the effect of crocetin on sleep. The clinical trial comprised a double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover trial of 21 healthy adult men with a mild sleep complaint. It included two intervention periods of 2 weeks each, separated by a 2-week washout period. We measured objective sleep quality using an actigraph, and assessed the subjective symptoms using St Mary's Hospital Sleep Questionnaire. Actigraph data showed that after administration of crocetin, the number of wakening episodes was reduced compared to that of the placebo (p=0.025). Subjective data from St Mary's Hospital Sleep Questionnaire showed that crocetin tended to improve the quality of sleep compared to sleep before its intake. Additionally, no side effects from crocetin intake were observed. The results suggest that crocetin may contribute to improving the quality of sleep.

UI  - 20522079
TI  - Evaluating therapeutic effect in symptoms of moderate-to-severe premenstrual syndrome with Vitex agnus castus (BNO 1095) in Chinese women.
AB  - Vitex agnus castus is more effective than placebo in the treatment of moderate-to-severe PMS in Chinese women, especially in symptoms of negative effect and insomnia.

UI  - 20478741
TI  - Insomnia severity is an indicator of suicidal ideation during a depression clinical trial.
AB  - The results support the concept that insomnia may be a useful indicator for suicidal ideation and now extend this idea into clinical trials. Insomnia remains an independent indicator of suicidal ideation, even taking into account the core symptoms of depression such as depressed mood and anhedonia. The complaint of insomnia during a depression clinical trial might indicate that more direct questioning about suicide is warranted.

UI  - 20476852
TI  - Sleep and health-related quality of life in patients with lower urinary tract symptoms suggestive of benign prostatic obstruction compared to the general population and patients with inguinal hernia.
AB  - Patients with LUTS suggestive of BPO had significantly impaired sleep, a higher prevalence of insomnia and significantly impaired HRQoL compared with one or both of the comparison groups.

UI  - 20469809
TI  - Sleep EEG predictors and correlates of the response to cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia.
AB  - CBT led to a more rapid decline in EEG delta power over the night. This change is linked to the therapeutic effect of CBT, which appears to occur in conjunction with an increase in homeostatic sleep drive. Traditional polysomnography indices and all-night averaged NREM EEG measures appear to be related to subjective improvements with CBT in subsets of patients with PI.

UI  - 20438325
TI  - Effects of a tart cherry juice beverage on the sleep of older adults with insomnia: a pilot study.
AB  - This study ascertained whether a proprietary tart cherry juice blend (CherryPharm, Inc., Geneva, NY, USA) associated with anecdotal reports of sleep enhancement improves subjective reports of insomnia compared to a placebo beverage. The pilot study used a randomized, double-blind, crossover design where each participant received both treatment and placebo for 2 weeks with an intervening 2-week washout period. Sleep continuity (sleep onset, wake after sleep onset, total sleep time, and sleep efficiency) was assessed by 2-week mean values from daily sleep diaries and disease severity by the Insomnia Severity Index in a cohort of 15 older adults with chronic insomnia who were otherwise healthy. The tart cherry juice beverage was associated with statistically significant pre- to post-treatment improvements on all sleep variables. When compared to placebo, the study beverage produced significant reductions in insomnia severity (minutes awake after sleep onset); no such improvements were observed for sleep latency, total sleep time, or sleep efficiency compared to placebo. Effect sizes were moderate and in some cases negligible. The results of this pilot study suggest that CherryPharm, a tart cherry juice blend, has modest beneficial effects on sleep in older adults with insomnia with effect sizes equal to or exceeding those observed in studies of valerian and in some, but not all, studies of melatonin, the two most studied natural products for insomnia. These effects, however, were considerably less than those for evidence-based treatments of insomnia: hypnotic agents and cognitive-behavioral therapies for insomnia.

UI  - 20435443
TI  - The importance of a good night's sleep: an open-label trial of the sodium salt of gamma-hydroxybutyric acid in insomnia associated with schizophrenia.
AB  - 

UI  - 20423585
TI  - Healthcare use in adults with insomnia: a longitudinal study.
AB  - Specific symptoms of insomnia are associated with consultation for sleep or mood problems, regardless of the presence of anxiety and depression. There is a large group of people who have combined insomnia and anxiety or depression who do not contact primary care about either sleep or mood problems.

UI  - 20411695
TI  - Sleep restriction therapy and hypnotic withdrawal versus sleep hygiene education in hypnotic using patients with insomnia.
AB  - These results provide evidence that more intensive treatment of insomnia (i.e., 8 sessions of SR+HW plus hypnotic withdrawal instructions) results in better outcomes than SHE alone.

UI  - 20397964
TI  - Sublingual zolpidem in early onset of sleep compared to oral zolpidem: polysomnographic study in patients with primary insomnia.
AB  - The results demonstrate that sublingual zolpidem is superior to an equivalent dose of oral zolpidem in terms of sleep inducing properties in a carefully selected sample of primary insomnia patients.

UI  - 20397457
TI  - Clinical observation on acupuncture treatment of intractable insomnia.
AB  - The body acupuncture plus auricular-plaster therapy may show better effect for intractable insomnia.

UI  - 20390696
TI  - Provision of ancillary medications during buprenorphine detoxification does not improve treatment outcomes.
AB  - For individuals dependent on opioids, recovery efforts begin with a period of withdrawal that typically includes discomfort from symptoms, possibly precipitating a return to drug use. The study described here investigated whether the provision of ancillary medications for opioid withdrawal symptoms affected treatment outcomes in 139 participants receiving buprenorphine in a 13-day detoxification trial. Outcome measures include the number of opioid-free urine samples collected and retention in treatment. Ancillary medications were provided to 70% of participants: 59% received medication for insomnia, 45% for anxiety, 40% for bone pain, 35% for nausea, and 28% for diarrhea. Findings indicate no difference in the number of opioid-free urine samples between the group receiving ancillary medication and the group who did not, although tests of specific ancillary medications indicate that those who received diarrhea medication had fewer opioid-free urines than those who did not (P = .004). Results also indicate that participants attended fewer days of treatment if they received anxiety, nausea, or diarrhea medication compared to no medication (all P values < .05).

UI  - 20376002
TI  - Orexin receptor antagonism, a new sleep-promoting paradigm: an ascending single-dose study with almorexant.
AB  - Almorexant, a dual orexin receptor antagonist potentially representing a new class of sleep-promoting compounds, was administered in an ascending single-dose study to evaluate tolerability, pharmacokinetics, and pharmacodynamics. Seventy healthy male subjects were enrolled in this double-blind, placebo- and active-controlled study. Each dose level (1-1,000 mg) was investigated in a separate group of 10 subjects (6 on almorexant, 2 on placebo, 2 on zolpidem 10 mg). Almorexant was well tolerated with no signs of cataplexy. Peak plasma concentration (C(max)) was quickly attained (median time to maximum concentration (t(max)) ranged from 0.7 to 2.3 h), and plasma concentrations subsequently decreased quickly to ~20% of C(max) over the course of 8 h. Vigilance, alertness, and visuomotor and motor coordination were reduced following daytime administration of zolpidem or almorexant at doses of > or =400 mg. Population pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic modeling suggested that doses of ~500 mg almorexant and 10 mg zolpidem are equivalent with respect to subjectively assessed alertness.

UI  - 20362977
TI  - Distinguishing rumination from worry in clinical insomnia.
AB  - Research has found that repetitive thought processes, such as worry and rumination, play an important role in several disorders; however, these cognitive processes have not yet been examined in insomnia. This study explores rumination and worry in insomnia by examining: 1) whether those high and low on rumination and worry differ on subjective sleep measures, and 2) whether rumination and worry are distinct processes in insomnia. Participants (N=242) were diagnosed with an insomnia disorder by sleep experts. Participants completed measures of worry and rumination and maintained a 2-week daily sleep log. Results of a multivariate analysis of variance found no main effect of worry; although high and low ruminators differed on several sleep log indices, including sleep efficiency, wakefulness after sleep onset and sleep quality. Factor analysis supported the idea that rumination and worry are separate constructs. Whereas previous research has focused on worry in insomnia, these findings suggest that rumination is important for understanding sleep disturbance. Further, although rumination and worry are both repetitive thought processes, these results indicate that they are distinct processes within insomnia and should be treated as such. The results are discussed with respect to treatment implications for Cognitive Behavioural Therapy for Insomnia.

UI  - 20227678
TI  - Psychophysiological reactivity to sleep-related emotional stimuli in primary insomnia.
AB  - The present study examined psychophysiological reactivity to emotional stimuli related and non-related to sleep in people with primary insomnia (PPI) and in good sleepers (GS). Twenty-one PPI and 18 GS were presented with five blocks of neutral, negative, positive, sleep-related negative and sleep-related positive pictures. During the presentation of the pictures, facial electromyography (EMG) of the corrugator and the zygomatic muscles, heart rate (HR) and cardiac vagal tone (CVT) were recorded. Subjective ratings of the stimuli were also collected. We found that only PPI exhibited greater inhibition of the corrugator activity in response to sleep-related positive stimuli compared to the other blocks of stimuli. Furthermore, PPI rated the sleep-related negative stimuli as more unpleasant and arousing and showed higher CVT in response to all stimuli as compared to GS. Results were interpreted as indicating that PPI exhibit craving for sleep-related positive stimuli, and also hyper-arousability in response to sleep-related negative stimuli, as compared to GS. Our results suggest that psychological treatment of insomnia could benefit by the inclusion of strategies dealing with emotional processes linked with sleep processes.

UI  - 20218786
TI  - Clinical use of aripiprazole in patients with schizophrenia: a real-life setting results from the German Postmarketing Surveillance Study.
AB  - When aripiprazole (ABILIFY) received its approval in Germany for the treatment of schizophrenia, a hospital-based postmarketing surveillance study was initiated in order to gain further insights concerning safety and efficacy of the antipsychotic under real-life conditions. Efficacy was rated by using standard CGI, GAF, and SF-12 instruments, whereas safety was evaluated according to the reports on adverse effects. Data from 799 patients with schizophrenia from 122 psychiatric hospitals returned for evaluation. Eighty percent of the patients were treated for 4 weeks with 10-30 mg/day aripiprazole (mean modal dose 15 mg/day). Within the observation period significant improvements of CGI, GAF, and SF-12 ratings was observed. Aripiprazole was tolerated well by the patients. Most frequent adverse effects were insomnia, irritability, restlessness, nausea and vomiting, in general being moderate to mild and corresponding to the known tolerability profile of aripiprazole. The results demonstrate that the administration of aripiprazole can result in an improvement of the symptoms of schizophrenia within 4 weeks in a real-life hospital-based in- and outpatient setting.

UI  - 20214068
TI  - [Clinical observation on acupoint catgut embedding at head-acupoint combined with massage of sole for treatment of refractory insomnia].
AB  - Acupoint catgut embedding at head-acupoint combined with massage of sole can obviously improve sleeping quality and daytime functional state of the patients with insomnia.

UI  - 20214067
TI  - [Effect on tranquilizing and allaying excitement needling method on brain blood flow in the patients of insomnia of heart and spleen deficiency].
AB  - Both the tranquilizing and allaying excitement needling method and the eight confluence points selected needling method can improve the clinical signs and symptoms. Meanwhile, the therapeutic effect of acupuncture is related with improvement of brain blood flow. However, the tranquilizing and allaying excitement needling method has better therapeutic effect on insomnia of heart and spleen deficiency.

UI  - 20196640
TI  - Health-related quality of life during hormone therapy after breast cancer: a randomized trial.
AB  - The effects of HT on quality of life in breast cancer survivors have not previously been reported. The present data suggest that this controversial treatment may improve quality of life after breast cancer.

UI  - 20191935
TI  - Effect of gaboxadol on patient-reported measures of sleep and waking function in patients with Primary Insomnia: results from two randomized, controlled, 3-month studies.
AB  - Gaboxadol 15 mg showed variable efficacy on measures of sleep duration and onset at 3 months in adult patients with Primary Insomnia in these studies and appeared to be more effective in women than men. Gaboxadol 10 mg was not effective in these studies. (Clinical trial registration numbers: NCT00103818, NCT00095069).

UI  - 20175406
TI  - A 12-week, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study evaluating the effect of eszopiclone 2 mg on sleep/wake function in older adults with primary and comorbid insomnia.
AB  - A Long-Term Safety and Efficacy Study of Eszopiclone in Elderly Subjects With Primary Chronic Insomnia; Registration #NCT00386334; URL - http://www.clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT00386334?term=eszopiclone&rank=24

UI  - 20159428
TI  - Cognitive effects of topiramate in migraine patients aged 12 through 17 years.
AB  - Neuropsychologic data are presented from a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter study with placebo, topiramate 50 mg/day, and topiramate 100 mg/day. The Cambridge Neuropsychological Test Automated Battery (CANTAB) and cognitive adverse events were used to evaluate neurocognitive effects of topiramate. Topiramate 100 mg/day vs placebo was associated with slight statistically significant score increases, indicating slowing, from baseline vs placebo in three CANTAB measures: five-choice reaction time (P = 0.028), pattern recognition memory mean correct latency (P = 0.027), and rapid visual information processing mean latency (P = 0.040). No other patterns related to topiramate treatment were observed in measurements of learning, memory, and visual information processing, except for potential improvement with topiramate 100 mg/day vs placebo in spatial span total errors (accuracy test) (P = 0.040). The most common cognitive and neuropsychiatric adverse events with a higher incidence in the topiramate 50 and 100 mg/day groups vs placebo were anorexia (9% and 11% vs 3%), insomnia (9% and 3% vs 3%), fatigue (6% and 9% vs 6%), and dizziness (6% and 9% vs 0%). Thus, topiramate 100 mg/day was associated with modest increases in psychomotor reaction times. Learning, memory, and executive function were unchanged. The tolerability profile, including cognitive adverse events, appeared to be acceptable.

UI  - 20141734
TI  - [Scalp penetration acupuncture for insomnia: a randomized controlled trial].
AB  - The therapeutic effects of scalp penetration acupuncture are better than those of routine acupuncture, especially for improving sleep quality, sleep time and sleep efficiency.

UI  - 20133188
TI  - The efficacy of cognitive-behavioral therapy for insomnia in patients with chronic pain.
AB  - CBT-I was successfully applied to patients experiencing chronic pain. Significant improvements were found in sleep as well as in the extent to which pain interfered with daily functioning. The observed effect sizes for the sleep outcomes appear comparable to or better than meta-analytic norms for subjects with Primary Insomnia.

UI  - 20133187
TI  - Relationship between insomnia and pain in major depressive disorder: A sleep diary and actigraphy study.
AB  - This study supports specific role of subjective sleep disturbances and actigraphic measures in predicting pain symptoms in major depressive disorder. Further studies using a micro-longitudinal design are necessary to find out the causal relationship between sleep and pain in depressed patients.

UI  - 20129178
TI  - Chronic primary insomnia: efficacy of homeopathic simillimum.
AB  - The homeopathic simillimum treatment of primary insomnia was effective, compared to placebo. Homeopathy is a viable treatment modality for this condition and further research is justified.

UI  - 20124884
TI  - Treatment effects of gabapentin for primary insomnia.
AB  - Gabapentin enhances slow-wave sleep in patients with primary insomnia. It also improves sleep quality by elevating sleep efficiency and decreasing spontaneous arousal. The results suggest that gabapentin may be beneficial in the treatment of primary insomnia.

UI  - 20113919
TI  - High exercise levels are related to favorable sleep patterns and psychological functioning in adolescents: a comparison of athletes and controls.
AB  - Findings suggest that chronic vigorous exercising is positively related to adolescents' sleep and psychological functioning. Results also indicate that males with low exercise levels are at risk for increased sleep complaints and poorer psychological functioning.

UI  - 20089082
TI  - Efficacy of a 5-HT1a receptor agonist in atopic dermatitis.
AB  - These data suggest that anxiolytic drugs such as 5-HT(1A) agonists are useful in the clinical management of stress-associated aggravation of AD. Inhibition of stress-induced mast cell degranulation may be one of the mechanisms underlying the clinical efficacy.

UI  - 20056221
TI  - Effectiveness of acupressure for residents of long-term care facilities with insomnia: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Offering acupressure on a regular basis has the potential to improve insomnia in residents of long-term care facilities. Acupressure on the HT7 point may improve insomnia for up to 2 weeks after the intervention.

UI  - 20053252
TI  - Modafinil and zolpidem use by emergency medicine residents.
AB  - Zolpidem use is common among EM residents, with most users initiating use during residency. Modafinil use is relatively uncommon, although most residents using have also initiated use during residency. Side effects are commonly reported for both of these agents, and long-term safety remains unclear.

UI  - 20052524
TI  - Multinomial logistic estimation of Markov-chain models for modeling sleep architecture in primary insomnia patients.
AB  - Hypnotic drug development calls for a better understanding of sleep physiology in order to improve and differentiate novel medicines for the treatment of sleep disorders. On this basis, a proper evaluation of polysomnographic data collected in clinical trials conducted to explore clinical efficacy of novel hypnotic compounds should include the assessment of sleep architecture and its drug-induced changes. This work presents a non-linear mixed-effect Markov-chain model based on multinomial logistic functions which characterize the time course of transition probabilities between sleep stages in insomniac patients treated with placebo. Polysomnography measurements were obtained from patients during one night treatment. A population approach was used to describe the time course of sleep stages (awake stage, stage 1, stage 2, slow-wave sleep and REM sleep) using a Markov-chain model. The relationship between time and individual transition probabilities between sleep stages was modelled through piecewise linear multinomial logistic functions. The identification of the model produced a good adherence of mean post-hoc estimates to the observed transition frequencies. Parameters were generally well estimated in terms of CV, shrinkage and distribution of empirical Bayes estimates around the typical values. The posterior predictive check analysis showed good consistency between model-predicted and observed sleep parameters. In conclusion, the Markov-chain model based on multinomial logistic functions provided an accurate description of the time course of sleep stages together with an assessment of the probabilities of transition between different stages.

UI  - 20050717
TI  - Amisulpride versus olanzapine in the treatment of schizophrenia in Indian patients: randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Amisulpride, although comparable to olanzapine on some measures, did not match the improvement seen with the latter drug in BPRS and SAPS scores. Despite differences in ADR profiles, overall tolerability was satisfactory for both drugs. In Indian patients, amisulpride should therefore be an alternative to olanzapine to a limited extent, such as when weight gain and sedation are undesirable.

UI  - 20039456
TI  - Electro-acupuncture to prevent prolonged postoperative ileus: a randomized clinical trial.
AB  - Acupuncture did not prevent PPOI and was not useful for treating PPOI once it had developed in this population.

UI  - 20035910
TI  - Eszopiclone improves insomnia and depressive and anxious symptoms in perimenopausal and postmenopausal women with hot flashes: a randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled crossover trial.
AB  - Eszopiclone treats insomnia and cooccurring menopause-related symptoms. Our results provide evidence that hypnotic therapies may improve multiple domains of well-being during midlife.

UI  - 20007734
TI  - The effects of nabilone on sleep in fibromyalgia: results of a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Nabilone is effective in improving sleep in patients with FM and is well tolerated. Low-dose nabilone given once daily at bedtime may be considered as an alternative to amitriptyline. Longer trials are needed to determine the duration of effect and to characterize long-term safety.

UI  - 20004301
TI  - Examining maladaptive beliefs about sleep across insomnia patient groups.
AB  - This study offers descriptive data for the use of DBAS-16 across insomnia subgroups, which will help the user understand what degree of maladaptive sleep beliefs is most strongly associated with clinically significant levels of insomnia. Results also may have implications for cognitive targeting during treatment for particular insomnia groups.

UI  - 19994698
TI  - [Clinical observation on therapeutic effect of the pressing plantar reflex area with wooden needle for treatment of patients with insomnia].
AB  - The therapeutic effect of wooden needle is similar to that of Alprazolam on the insomnia, indicats that wooden needle is a better therapy for treating insomnia.

UI  - 19968014
TI  - Cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia improves sleep and decreases pain in older adults with co-morbid insomnia and osteoarthritis.
AB  - CBT-I but not an attention control, without directly addressing pain control, improved both immediate and long-term self-reported sleep and pain in older patients with osteoarthritis and comorbid insomnia. These results are unique in suggesting the long-term durability of CBT-I effects for co-morbid insomnia. They also indicate that improving sleep, per se, in patients with osteoarthritis may result in decreased pain. Techniques to improve sleep may be useful additions to pain management programs in osteoarthritis, and possibly other chronic pain conditions as well.

UI  - 19968011
TI  - Gender differences in sleep disruption and fatigue on quality of life among persons with ostomies.
AB  - Although women CRC survivors with ostomies report more sleep disruption and fatigue, which is reflected in their reduced physical and mental health scores on the SF-36v2 compared to men with ostomies, their stated reasons for disrupted sleep are similar to their male counterparts. These findings can provide a foundation for gender-relevant ostomy interventions to improve sleep and HR-QOL in this patient population.

UI  - 19963337
TI  - Undertreatment of symptoms in patients on maintenance hemodialysis.
AB  - Potentially treatable symptoms in hemodialysis are undertreated. Pharmacologic therapy, particularly for emotional symptoms, was more commonly prescribed by primary care providers than nephrologists. Additional study of the barriers to symptom treatment and interventions that increase nephrologist and primary care provider symptom management are needed.

UI  - 19949165
TI  - Safety and tolerability of donepezil in mild cognitive impairment: open-label extension study.
AB  - Following a 48-week, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial of donepezil in 821 patients with amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI), safety and tolerability of donepezil (10 mg) were further evaluated in a 28-week extension study. Of 499 participants who completed the double-blind phase, 145 enrolled in the open-label study. Adverse events (AEs) were recorded throughout. Overall, 57.4% of participants in the donepezil/donepezil group and 62.3% in the placebo/donepezil group experienced an AE, with the most frequent treatment-emergent AEs being diarrhea, muscle spasms, insomnia, and nausea. Most were mild to moderate in severity and were more common in the first several weeks after treatment initiation. More participants in the placebo/donepezil group (22.1%) discontinued donepezil due to an AE compared with the donepezil/donepezil group (10.3%). These findings support the safety of donepezil in patients with aMCI. When compared with other studies, however, the data suggest that patients with Alzheimer's tolerate donepezil better than patients with MCI.

UI  - 19945340
TI  - Treatment of elderly primary insomnia patients with EVT 201 improves sleep initiation, sleep maintenance, and daytime sleepiness.
AB  - EVT 201 improved PSG measures of sleep onset and sleep maintenance and significantly reduced daytime physiological sleep tendency. These findings suggest that treatment of primary insomnia in older patients has the potential to improve daytime sleepiness as well as sleep.

UI  - 19942722
TI  - Acupuncture and reflexology for insomnia: a feasibility study.
AB  - Ten participants completed treatment. In the acupuncture and reflexology groups, a clinically relevant improvement in two out of three participants was observed on the PSQI following treatment. Music therapy produced no clinically important improvements. This study has demonstrated the feasibility of conducting an RCT on the effect of acupuncture and reflexology in primary insomnia using PSQI as the primary outcome measure. Modifications for a more rigorous study design have been discussed. Results from such a study would address the lack of high-quality evidence for the effectiveness of such therapies.

UI  - 19938212
TI  - Intradermal acupuncture on shen-men and nei-kuan acupoints improves insomnia in stroke patients by reducing the sympathetic nervous activity: a randomized clinical trial.
AB  - This study is a double-blind randomized controlled trial on the effect of intradermal acupuncture on insomnia after stroke. Hospitalized stroke patients with insomnia were enrolled in the study and were randomly assigned to either a real intradermal acupuncture group (RA group) or a sham acupuncture group (SA group). The RA group received intradermal acupuncture on Shen-Men (He-7) and Nei-Kuan (EH-6) for three days, and the SA group received sham acupuncture on the same points. The effect of acupuncture on insomnia was measured using Insomnia Severity Index (ISI) and Athens Insomnia Scale (AIS) at baseline and three days after treatment. To assess the effect of acupuncture on the autonomic nervous function, the subjects' blood pressure and heart rate variability were monitored. Fifty-two subjects (27 in the RA group and 25 in the SA group) were included in the final analysis. The insomnia-related scales ISI and AIS showed greater improvement of insomnia in the RA group than in the SA group. Moreover, there is a greater reduction of the number of non-dippers and a greater decrease of the LF/HF ratio (heart rate variability) in the RA group than in the SA group. These results indicate that sympathetic hyperactivities were stabilized in the RA group. It can thus be concluded that intradermal acupuncture on Shen-Men and Nei-Kuan is a useful therapeutic method for post stroke-onset insomnia as it reduces sympathetic hyperactivities.

UI  - 19915736
TI  - Effects of isoflavone on oxidative stress parameters and homocysteine in postmenopausal women complaining of insomnia.
AB  - Sleep disorders have an increased incidence after menopause. The objective of this work was to evaluate the effects of isoflavone on some oxidative stress markers in postmenopausal women complaining of insomnia. Women aged between 50-65 years (n=38) were recruited and assigned to a double-blind placebo controlled study for 4 months. The treated group received 100 mg/day of isoflavones. Blood collections were conducted on three different occasions to assess total glutathione; superoxide dismutase and catalase in erythrocytes; lipid peroxidation; and homocysteine plasma concentrations. No differences between the groups were observed. However, all the patients seem to improve their oxidative stress status and homocysteine concentration after treatment. Superoxide dismutase activity was correlated with age and time of menopause at the beginning of the treatment, but these correlations were no longer observed by the end of the study. Soy isoflavones were not able to overcome the placebo effect for either oxidative stress parameters or homocysteine concentrations.

UI  - 19909980
TI  - A study of the effects of LY2216684, a selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor, in the treatment of major depression.
AB  - The current study sought to test the efficacy and safety of the novel selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor LY2216684 compared to placebo in patients with major depressive disorder (MDD). Escitalopram was used as a control for assay sensitivity. Adult outpatients with MDD, confirmed at screening by the Mini International Neuropsychiatric Interview, a Self-Rated Quick Inventory of Depressive Symptomatology (QIDS-SR) score of at least 12 and a Clinical Global Impression-Severity Score of at least 4, were randomly assigned to LY2216684 (N=269), placebo (N=138), or escitalopram (N=62). Efficacy, safety, and tolerability outcomes were compared during 8 weeks of double-blind treatment. LY2216684 plasma concentrations were measured. LY2216684 did not show statistically significant improvement from baseline compared to placebo in the primary analysis of the Hamilton depression rating scale (HAM-D(17)) total score. Escitalopram demonstrated significant improvement compared to placebo on the HAM-D(17) total score, suggesting adequate assay sensitivity. Both LY2216684 and escitalopram showed statistically significant improvement from baseline on the patient-rated QIDS-SR total score compared to placebo. Headache, nausea, constipation, dry mouth, and insomnia were the most frequently reported adverse events in the LY2216684 group. A 3-6 beats per minute mean increase from baseline in pulse rate was observed in the LY2216684 group. LY2216684 plasma concentrations increased as the dose increased from 3 mg to 12 mg. The results of this initial investigation of LY2216684's efficacy suggest that it may have antidepressant potential. More definitive data to confirm this is necessary. Its safety profile does not preclude further clinical development.

UI  - 19906340
TI  - A multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, 16-week study of adjunctive aripiprazole for schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder inadequately treated with quetiapine or risperidone monotherapy.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00325689.

UI  - 19894388
TI  - The XIA's No. 1 sleeping Prescription for the treatment of insomnia of the deficiency type: a clinical observation of 60 cases.
AB  - The XIA's No. 1 Sleeping Prescription is effective for insomnia of the deficiency type and with no obvious toxic side effects.

UI  - 19888921
TI  - Melatonin decreases daytime challenging behaviour in persons with intellectual disability and chronic insomnia.
AB  - Melatonin treatment in persons with ID and chronic insomnia decreases daytime challenging behaviour, probably by improving sleep maintenance or by improving circadian melatonin rhythmicity.

UI  - 19885944
TI  - The effect on serotonin and MDA levels in depressed patients with insomnia when far-infrared rays are applied to acupoints.
AB  - Little is known about the effect of far-infrared rays (FIR) on serotonin and malondialdehyde levels in depressed patients with insomnia. The purpose of this study is to assess the effect of far-infrared rays on depressed people with insomnia. A randomized design was used to determine this effect. A total of 70 inpatients were recruited with the clinical diagnosis of depression with sleep disturbance. In the experimental group, FIR was applied to three chosen acupuncture points by a patch-like sticker for a period of 15 minutes twice a week. The three acupuncture points are Nei-Kuan (PC6), Shenmen (HT7) and Sanyinjiao (SP6). The total duration of experiment was four weeks. For both experimental and control groups, serum levels of serotonin (5HT) and malondialdehyde (MDA) were examined before and after the introduction of FIR. The experimental group revealed disparate changes over different dependent variables, in which serotonin increased but MDA decreased after the introduction of FIR. These observations indicate that the serotonin pathway is involved in the pathophysiological mechanism responsible for the damaging effects of MDA on depressed patients with insomnia.

UI  - 19885874
TI  - The effect of interpersonal psychotherapy for depression on insomnia symptoms in a cohort of women with sexual abuse histories.
AB  - Insomnia frequently occurs with trauma exposure and depression, but can ameliorate with improvements in depression. Insomnia was assessed by the insomnia subscale of the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression in 106 women with childhood sexual abuse (CSA) and major depression receiving interpersonal psychotherapy (IPT) in an uncontrolled pilot (n = 36) and an immediately subsequent randomized controlled trial (n = 70) comparing IPT to treatment as usual. Depression improved in each study and in both treatment conditions; insomnia had smaller, nonsignificant improvements. Overall, 95 women (90%) endorsed insomnia on the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV at baseline and, of those, 90% endorsed insomnia following treatment. Despite improvements in depression, insomnia persists for most women with CSA.

UI  - 19856068
TI  - Clinical evaluation of oral levofloxacin 500 mg once-daily dosage for treatment of lower respiratory tract infections and urinary tract infections: a prospective multicenter study in China.
AB  - Levofloxacin (LVFX), a fluoroquinolone agent, has a broad spectrum that covers Gram-positive and -negative bacteria and atypical pathogens. It demonstrates good clinical efficacy in the treatment of various infections, including lower respiratory tract infections (LRTIs) and urinary tract infections (UTIs). To evaluate the efficacy and safety of oral LVFX 500 mg once daily, a large open-label clinical trial was conducted in 1266 patients (899 with LRTIs and 367 with UTIs) at 32 centers in China. In the per-protocol population, the clinical efficacy rate (cure or improvement) at 7 to 14 days after the end of treatment was 96.4% (666/691) for LRTIs and 95.7% (267/279) for UTIs. In 53 patients diagnosed with atypical pneumonia the treatment was effective. The bacteriological efficacy rate was 96.6% (256/265) for LRTIs and 93.3% (126/135) for UTIs. The eradication rate of the causative pathogens was 100% (33/33) for Haemophilus influenzae and 96.0% (24/25) for Streptococcus pneumoniae in LRTIs, and 94.1% (80/85) for Escherichia coli in UTIs. The overall efficacy rates were 89.3% (617/691) for LRTIs and 87.8% (245/279) for UTIs. The incidence of drug-related adverse events (ADRs) was 17.3% (215/1245), and the incidence of drug-related laboratory abnormalities was 15.7% (191/1213). Common ADRs were dizziness, nausea, and insomnia. Common laboratory abnormalities included "WBC decreased", "alanine aminotransferase (ALT) increased", "aspartate aminotransferase (AST) increased", and "lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) increased". All of these events were mentioned in the package inserts of fluoroquinolones including LVFX, and most events were mild and transient. Thirty-four patients (2.7%) were withdrawn from the study because of the ADRs. No new ADRs were found. This study concluded that the dosage regimen of LVFX 500 mg once daily was effective and tolerable for the treatment of LRTIs and UTIs.

UI  - 19841476
TI  - Nelotanserin, a novel selective human 5-hydroxytryptamine2A inverse agonist for the treatment of insomnia.
AB  - 5-Hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)(2A) receptor inverse agonists are promising therapeutic agents for the treatment of sleep maintenance insomnias. Among these agents is nelotanserin, a potent, selective 5-HT(2A) inverse agonist. Both radioligand binding and functional inositol phosphate accumulation assays suggest that nelotanserin has low nanomolar potency on the 5-HT(2A) receptor with at least 30- and 5000-fold selectivity compared with 5-HT(2C) and 5-HT(2B) receptors, respectively. Nelotanserin dosed orally prevented (+/-)-1-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane (DOI; 5-HT(2A) agonist)-induced hypolocomotion, increased sleep consolidation, and increased total nonrapid eye movement sleep time and deep sleep, the latter marked by increases in electroencephalogram (EEG) delta power. These effects on rat sleep were maintained after repeated subchronic dosing. In healthy human volunteers, nelotanserin was rapidly absorbed after oral administration and achieved maximum concentrations 1 h later. EEG effects occurred within 2 to 4 h after dosing, and were consistent with vigilance-lowering. A dose response of nelotanserin was assessed in a postnap insomnia model in healthy subjects. All doses (up to 40 mg) of nelotanserin significantly improved measures of sleep consolidation, including decreases in the number of stage shifts, number of awakenings after sleep onset, microarousal index, and number of sleep bouts, concomitant with increases in sleep bout duration. Nelotanserin did not affect total sleep time, or sleep onset latency. Furthermore, subjective pharmacodynamic effects observed the morning after dosing were minimal and had no functional consequences on psychomotor skills or memory. These studies point to an efficacy and safety profile for nelotanserin that might be ideally suited for the treatment of sleep maintenance insomnias.

UI  - 19826944
TI  - An exploratory study on the effects of tele-neurofeedback and tele-biofeedback on objective and subjective sleep in patients with primary insomnia.
AB  - Insomnia is a sleeping disorder, usually studied from a behavioural perspective, with a focus on somatic and cognitive arousal. Recent studies have suggested that an impairment of information processes due to the presence of cortical hyperarousal might interfere with normal sleep onset and/or consolidation. As such, a treatment modality focussing on CNS arousal, and thus influencing information processing, might be of interest. Seventien insomnia patients were randomly assigned to either a tele-neurofeedback (n = 9) or an electromyography tele-biofeedback (n = 8) protocol. Twelve healthy controls were used to compare baseline sleep measures. A polysomnography was performed pre and post treatment. Total Sleep Time (TST), was considered as our primary outcome variable. Sleep latency decreased pre to post treatment in both groups, but a significant improvement in TST was found only after the neurofeedback (NFB) protocol. Furthermore, sleep logs at home showed an overall improvement only in the neurofeedback group, whereas the sleep logs in the lab remained the same pre to post training. Only NFB training resulted in an increase in TST. The mixed results concerning perception of sleep might be related to methodological issues, such as the different locations of the training and sleep measurements.

UI  - 19802752
TI  - Psychometric properties and the predictive validity of the insomnia daytime worry scale: a pilot study.
AB  - The relationship between presleep worry and insomnia has been investigated in previous studies, but less attention has been given to the role of daytime worry and symptoms of insomnia. The aims of the current study were (a) to assess the psychometric properties of a novel scale measuring insomnia-specific worry during daytime and (b) to examine whether levels of daytime worry predict severity of insomnia symptoms. Participants (N = 353) completed the Insomnia Daytime Worry Scale (IDWS) and the Insomnia Severity Index. An explorative principal-axis factor analysis extracted two factors from the IDWS, accounting for 70.5% of the variance. The IDWS demonstrated good reliability. The total score of IDWS and both factors predicted levels of insomnia severity in two separate hierarchical regression analyses. This preliminary evidence suggests that the IDWS is a valid and reliable scale to measure daytime worry in insomnia.

UI  - 19785973
TI  - Lisdexamfetamine in the treatment of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder in adults.
AB  - 

UI  - 19725256
TI  - Longitudinal evaluation of sleep-disordered breathing and sleep symptoms with change in quality of life: the Sleep Heart Health Study (SHHS).
AB  - A slight increase in severity of sleep disordered breathing was seen over 5 years; this was not associated with worsening of quality of life. However, subjective symptoms of quality of sleep and daytime sleepiness were associated with declining quality of life.

UI  - 19725255
TI  - Electroacupuncture for primary insomnia: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - We found a slight advantage of electroacupuncture over placebo acupuncture in the short-term treatment of primary insomnia. Because of some limitations of the current study, further studies are necessary to verify the effectiveness of acupuncture for insomnia.

UI  - 19725253
TI  - Diclofenac potassium restores objective and subjective measures of sleep quality in women with primary dysmenorrhea.
AB  - Diclofenac potassium effectively attenuates nighttime dysmenorrheic pain and restores subjective and objective measures of sleep quality to values recorded in a pain-free phase of the menstrual cycle.

UI  - 19721097
TI  - Adverse drug reactions to nonnucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor-based antiretroviral regimen: a 24-week prospective study.
AB  - As the developing world increasingly uses generic ART, the clinician must be constantly vigilant for treatment-related adverse events.

UI  - 19694735
TI  - Effect of renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of PD 0200390, a novel ligand for the voltage-gated calcium channel alpha-2-delta subunit.
AB  - PD 0200390 pharmacokinetic parameters (CL/F, CL(R) and AUC(0-infinity)) vary predictably with decreases in renal function; therefore dose adjustment may be required in individuals with RI.

UI  - 19689221
TI  - Interpreting score differences in the Insomnia Severity Index: using health-related outcomes to define the minimally important difference.
AB  - Based on results of the study, a 6-point reduction is recommended to represent a clinically meaningful improvement in individuals with primary insomnia. Research on generalizability of the recommended MID in this study to other patient populations and other type of treatment interventions is needed.

UI  - 19685943
TI  - The effect of mood on sleep onset latency and REM sleep in interepisode bipolar disorder.
AB  - The present study investigates whether interepisode mood regulation impairment contributes to disturbances in sleep onset latency (SOL) and rapid eye movement (REM) sleep. Individuals with interepisode bipolar disorder (n = 28) and healthy controls (n = 28) slept in the laboratory for 2 baseline nights, a happy mood induction night, and a sad mood induction night. There was a significant interaction whereby on the happy mood induction night the bipolar group exhibited significantly longer SOL than did the control group, while there was no difference on the baseline nights. In addition, control participants exhibited shorter SOL on the happy mood induction night compared to the baseline nights, a finding that was not observed in the bipolar group. On the sad mood induction night, participants in both groups had shorter SOL and increased REM density when compared to the baseline nights. Bipolar participants exhibited heightened REM density compared to control participants on both nights. These results raise the possibility that regulation of positive stimuli may be a contributor to difficulties with SOL, while hyperactivity may be characteristic of REM sleep.

UI  - 19680805
TI  - Pre-sleep arousal and sleep problems of anxiety-disordered youth.
AB  - The current study examined sleep problems and pre-sleep arousal among 52 anxious children and adolescents, aged 7-14 years, in relation to age, sex, ethnicity, and primary anxiety disorder. Assessment included structured diagnostic interviews and parent and child completed measures of sleep problems and pre-sleep arousal. Overall, 85% of parents reported clinically-significant child sleep problems, whereas 54% of youth reported trouble sleeping. Young children, those with primary generalized anxiety disorder, and Latino youth experienced the greatest levels of sleep disturbance. Additionally, greater levels of pre-sleep cognitive rather than somatic arousal were found and pre-sleep thoughts were associated with decreased total sleep duration and greater sleep problems. Findings suggest that attention to sleep should be part of assessment procedures for anxious children in both research and clinical settings.

UI  - 19663092
TI  - Forty cases of insomnia treated by suspended moxibustion at Baihui (GV 20).
AB  - It was concluded that suspended moxibustion at Baihui (GV 20) is as effective as Estazolam for insomnia.

UI  - 19656577
TI  - Effects of aripiprazole adjunctive to standard antidepressant treatment on the core symptoms of depression: a post-hoc, pooled analysis of two large, placebo-controlled studies.
AB  - Aripiprazole augmentation of standard ADT results in significant, clinically meaningful changes in the core symptoms of depression. It is also associated with significant change in anxiety, insomnia, and drive components of the 17-item HAM-D.

UI  - 19634966
TI  - Predictors of the effect of cognitive behavioral therapy for chronic insomnia comorbid with breast cancer.
AB  - Prior studies have supported the efficacy of cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) for insomnia comorbid with cancer. This article reports secondary analyses that were performed on one of these studies to investigate the predictive role of changes in dysfunctional beliefs about sleep, adherence to behavioral strategies, and some nonspecific factors on sleep changes assessed subjectively and objectively. Fifty-seven women with chronic insomnia comorbid with breast cancer received CBT for insomnia. At posttreatment, subjective sleep improvements were best predicted by higher initial levels of treatment expectancies, but also by decreased dysfunctional beliefs about sleep; the most consistent predictors of polysomnography (PSG) assessed sleep improvements were reduced dysfunctional beliefs about sleep and a higher avoidance of day napping. At 6-month follow-up, subjectively assessed sleep improvements were best predicted by adherence to behavioral strategies, whereas none of the predictors was significantly associated with PSG-assessed sleep improvements. This study gives some support to the importance of targeting erroneous beliefs about sleep and poor sleep habits in the treatment of cancer-related insomnia, but also to the importance of enhancing patients' expectancies for improvement.

UI  - 19616140
TI  - Frequency and predictors of obstructive sleep apnea among individuals with major depressive disorder and insomnia.
AB  - These findings indicate that the frequency of OSA is higher among individuals with comorbid MDD and insomnia than was previously found among people with either MDD or insomnia alone. In addition, previously identified predictors of OSA (male sex, older age, and high BMI) also apply to this population.

UI  - 19584739
TI  - The effect of prolonged-release melatonin on sleep measures and psychomotor performance in elderly patients with insomnia.
AB  - Objectives of this study were to investigate the effects of prolonged-release melatonin 2 mg (PRM) on sleep and subsequent daytime psychomotor performance in patients aged > or =55 years with primary insomnia, as defined by fourth revision of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders of the American Psychiatric Association. Patients (N = 40) were treated nightly single-blind with placebo (2 weeks), randomized double-blind to PRM or placebo (3 weeks) followed by withdrawal period (3 weeks). Sleep was assessed by polysomnography, all-night sleep electroencephalography spectral analysis and questionnaires. Psychomotor performance was assessed by the Leeds Psychomotor Test battery. By the end of the double-blind treatment, the PRM group had significantly shorter sleep onset latency (9 min; P = 0.02) compared with the placebo group and scored significantly better in the Critical Flicker Fusion Test (P = 0.008) without negatively affecting sleep structure and architecture. Half of the patients reported substantial improvement in sleep quality at home with PRM compared with 15% with placebo (P = 0.018). No rebound effects were observed during withdrawal. In conclusion, nightly treatment with PRM effectively induced sleep and improved perceived quality of sleep in patients with primary insomnia aged > or =55 years. Daytime psychomotor performance was not impaired and was consistently better with PRM compared with placebo. PRM was well tolerated with no evidence of rebound effects.

UI  - 19581560
TI  - Efficacy of an Internet-based behavioral intervention for adults with insomnia.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00328250.

UI  - 19548434
TI  - [Effect of modified xiaoyao powder for improving sleep in patients with psychological stress insomnia].
AB  - JXYP, combined with or without Estazolam, can improve the quality of sleep subjectively, and the combination of the two could enhance the efficacy of sleep in patients with psychological stress insomnia.

UI  - 19548433
TI  - [Analysis on somnipathy related factors in elderly patients with stroke and comparative study on the efficacy of treatment by traditional Chinese medicine and by estazolam].
AB  - The occurrence of somnipathy in stroke patients was closely related with the property and site of lesion, and the neurological deficit degree of patients. Better sleep is surely favorable for recovery of the nervous function, and TCM shows a favorable efficacy on somnipathy.

UI  - 19544758
TI  - Logging on for better sleep: RCT of the effectiveness of online treatment for insomnia.
AB  - Implications of these findings are that identification of who most benefits from online treatment is a worthy area of future study.

UI  - 19542983
TI  - The efficacy of pregabalin and benzodiazepines in generalized anxiety disorder presenting with high levels of insomnia.
AB  - The objective of this study was to assess the impact of high levels of insomnia on response to pregabalin (PGB) in patients with generalized anxiety disorder (GAD). Pooled data were analyzed from six double-blind, placebo-controlled, 4- to 6-week trials of outpatients who met the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (fourth edition) criteria for GAD with a minimum Hamilton Rating Scale for Anxiety (HAM-A) score = 18. Response was evaluated for three fixed-dose PGB groups (150, 300-450, 600 mg/day), and for a benzodiazepine group (alprazolam or lorazepam). A 'high-insomnia' subgroup was defined by a baseline HAM for Depression (HAM-D) insomnia factor score greater than 3 (maximum = 6). At baseline, 1002 (54%) patients met the criteria for the high-insomnia subgroup, and 852 (46%) for the low-insomnia subgroup. Mean baseline HAM-A scores were 1-2 points higher in high-insomnia versus low-insomnia patients. In high-insomnia patients, PGB produced significantly greater improvement in HAM-A total scores at last observation carried forward endpoint on 300-450 mg (-13.1+/-0.6) and 600 mg (-11.2+/-0.5) dose groups compared with placebo (-8.3+/-0.5; P<0.0001 for both comparisons); the improvement on PGB 150 mg was not significant (-9.9+/-0.7; P = 0.051). Improvement was significant in the benzodiazepine group (-11.0+/-0.6; P<0.0001). In the high-insomnia subgroup, treatment with PGB significantly (P<0.001) improved the HAM-D insomnia factor scores on both the 300-450 mg (-2.73) and 600 mg (-2.35) doses, and on benzodiazepines (-2.52) compared with placebo (-1.51); improvement on PGB 150 mg (-1.69) was not significant. Rates of treatment-emergent insomnia were lower on PGB compared with placebo in both the high- and low-insomnia subgroups. In conclusion, PGB was well tolerated, and improved overall anxiety symptoms, while specifically improving insomnia in patients with GAD presenting with high levels of concurrent insomnia.

UI  - 19534799
TI  - Psychometric properties of a single-item scale to assess sleep quality among individuals with fibromyalgia.
AB  - These results provide evidence of the reproducibility, convergent validity, and responsiveness to treatment of the Sleep Quality Scale and provide a foundation for its further use and evaluation in FM patients.

UI  - 19514183
TI  - The needle-rolling therapy for treatment of non-organic chronic insomnia in 90 cases.
AB  - As compared with hypnotics of the second generation, the needle-rolling therapy may show better therapeutic effects for chronic insomnia patients.

UI  - 19505198
TI  - Validation of the sleep impact scale in patients with major depressive disorder and insomnia.
AB  - This study yielded adequate evidence of the validity of the SIS for use in clinical trials and research on MDD patients with comorbid insomnia.

UI  - 19489493
TI  - [Clinical observation on acupuncture regulating "double vitality" for treatment of insomnia].
AB  - Acupuncture for regulating "double vitality" can significantly improve the sleeping quality of the insomnia patients and the complications.

UI  - 19489492
TI  - [Observation on therapeutic effect of Chuzhen therapy on insomnia].
AB  - Chuzhen therapy can increase long-term sleep quality and living quality through improving the effective rate of sleep and reducing the score of PSQI in the patients of insomnia.

UI  - 19487623
TI  - Lack of efficacy of citalopram in children with autism spectrum disorders and high levels of repetitive behavior: citalopram ineffective in children with autism.
AB  - Results of this trial do not support the use of citalopram for the treatment of repetitive behavior in children and adolescents with autism spectrum disorders. Trial Registration clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00086645.

UI  - 19481579
TI  - Safety and tolerability of deltoid and gluteal injections of paliperidone palmitate in schizophrenia.
AB  - Paliperidone palmitate is an investigational, injectable atypical antipsychotic. The safety and tolerability of initiating treatment with paliperidone palmitate via deltoid versus gluteal injections given once monthly, and of switching injection sites, in adults with stable schizophrenia were assessed. In this crossover trial, stable outpatients (N=252) were randomly assigned 1:1:1 to 3 dose groups (paliperidone palmitate 50, 75, or 100 mg eq.) and 2 treatment sequences (blinded to dose): deltoid muscle (period 1 [13 weeks]) followed by gluteal muscle (period 2 [12 weeks]) or the reverse. The intent-to-treat analysis set had 249 patients: mean age=43 (SD: 12.8) years; 57% men, 81% white, baseline mean Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) total score=56 (SD: 11.5). A total of 170 (68%) patients completed the study, with a similar proportion completing each treatment sequence. The incidence of systemic treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) was similar between the 2 injection sites across doses during period 1 (deltoid [D]: 61% to 67%; gluteus [G]: 58% to 65%), and during the last 8 weeks of the 2 study periods (DG: 32% to 45% [period 1], 29% to 42% [period 2]; GD: 31% to 40% [period 1], 30% to 41% [period 2]). During the first treatment week, median plasma paliperidone concentrations were higher with treatment initiation in the deltoid muscle compared with the gluteal muscle. At apparent steady state, there was little difference in plasma paliperidone concentrations between the deltoid and gluteus sites for a given dose. Local tolerability was slightly better with gluteal injections. Patient preference for injection sites differed between geographical regions, e.g. patients from the US preferred deltoid to gluteal sites. The most common (>or=5% overall) TEAEs were: (period 1) insomnia, anxiety, headache, and agitation; and (period 2) insomnia, psychotic disorder, weight increased, and tachycardia. Paliperidone palmitate treatment was tolerated, irrespective of injection site, and thus could offer the choice of administration into either the deltoid or gluteal muscle to meet patient and physician preference.

UI  - 19480226
TI  - A nightly bedtime routine: impact on sleep in young children and maternal mood.
AB  - These results suggest that instituting a consistent nightly bedtime routine, in and of itself, is beneficial in improving multiple aspects of infant and toddler sleep, especially wakefulness after sleep onset and sleep continuity, as well as maternal mood.

UI  - 19463883
TI  - Zaleplon increases nocturnal melatonin secretion in humans.
AB  - Insomnia is the most common sleep condition. Many hypnotics decrease nocturnal melatonin secretion. The aim of this research consists of studying the effect of the hypnotic drug zaleplon on melatonin secretion. Twelve non-smoker drug-free healthy male subjects participated in the study. All participants were normal sleepers and aged 33.2 +/- 11.7 years. They orally took 10 mg of zaleplon at 22:00 h in a double-blind, randomized, cross-over design. The study was carried out during two consecutive days in a week-end. Blood samples were extracted at 22:00, 23:00, 24:00, 01:00, 02:00 and 12:00 h. Melatonin was measured by an ELISA assay. All the subjects had a circadian rhythm of melatonin secretion. Zaleplon compared to placebo increased significantly the melatonin levels at 23:00, 24:00 and 01:00 h. No differences in melatonin levels between placebo and zaleplon were found at 12:00, 22:00 and 02:00 h. Zaleplon compared to placebo increased by 46% the Area Under the Curve of melatonin secretion. The present study indicates that zaleplon increases nocturnal melatonin secretion without increasing daytime melatonin levels. We suggest that when clinicians prescribe a hypnotic, the effect on melatonin levels should be another parameter to be taken into account.

UI  - 19460188
TI  - Residual symptoms after remission of major depressive disorder with citalopram and risk of relapse: a STAR*D report.
AB  - Patients with remission of MDD after treatment with citalopram continue to experience selected residual depressive symptoms, which increase the risk of relapse.

UI  - 19454639
TI  - Cognitive behavioral therapy, singly and combined with medication, for persistent insomnia: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00042146.

UI  - 19440075
TI  - Zolpidem extended-release improves sleep and next-day symptoms in comorbid insomnia and generalized anxiety disorder.
AB  - A multicenter, double-blind, parallel-group study was designed to assess the efficacy and safety of zolpidem extended-release coadministered with escitalopram in patients with insomnia and comorbid generalized anxiety disorder. Patients (N = 383) received open-label escitalopram 10 mg/d and were randomized to either adjunct zolpidem extended-release 12.5 mg or placebo. The primary efficacy measure was change from baseline to week 8 in subjective total sleep time. Secondary efficacy measures included subjective sleep onset latency, number of awakenings, wake time after sleep onset, sleep quality, the Hamilton Rating Scale for Anxiety, the Beck Anxiety Inventory, the Sleep Impact Scale, the Massachusetts General Hospital Cognitive and Physical Functioning Questionnaire, and the Sheehan Disability Scale. The last-observation-carried-forward method was used to impute missing values for most efficacy measures. Safety was monitored at each visit. At week 8 and all time points, there was a significant improvement in the zolpidem extended-release/escitalopram group compared with placebo/escitalopram for total sleep time (P < 0.0001). Most of the secondary efficacy measures also significantly favored zolpidem at most visits (P < 0.0001). The most common treatment-emergent adverse events in both groups were nausea, dizziness, headache, fatigue, and dry mouth. Concurrent zolpidem extended-release/escitalopram, compared with placebo/escitalopram, significantly improved insomnia and sleep-related next-day symptoms, but not anxiety symptoms, in patients with comorbid insomnia and generalized anxiety disorder.

UI  - 19434647
TI  - Assessment of preferences for treatment: validation of a measure.
AB  - Systematic measurement of treatment preferences is needed to obtain well-informed preferences. Guided by a conceptualization of treatment preferences, a measure was developed to assess treatment acceptability and preference. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the psychometric properties of the treatment acceptability and preferences (TAP) measure. The TAP measure contains a description of each treatment under evaluation, items to rate its acceptability, and questions about participants' preferred treatment option. The items measuring treatment acceptability were internally consistent (alpha > .80) and demonstrated validity, evidenced by a one-factor structure and differences in the scores between participants with preferences for particular interventions. The TAP measure has the potential for the assessment of acceptability and preferences for various behavioral interventions.

UI  - 19414938
TI  - Restless legs syndrome in patients on dialysis.
AB  - Restless legs syndrome (RLS) is an extremely distressing problem experienced by patients on dialysis; the prevalence appears to be greater than in the general population, with a wide variation from 6.6% to 80%. The diagnosis of RLS is a clinical one, and its definition has been clarified and standardized by internationally recognized diagnostic criteria, published in 1995 by the International Restless Legs Syndrome Study Group (IRLSSG). This study was designed to find out the prevalence of RLS in Saudi patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) on maintenance dialysis. This is a cross sectional study carried out between May and Sept 2007 at two centers, King Abdulaziz Medical City-King Fahad National Guard Hospital (KAMC-KFNGH), Riyadh and King Faisal Specialist Hospital and Research Centre (KFHRC), Jeddah, Saudi Arabia. Data were gathered on 227 Saudi patients on chronic maintenance hemodialysis or chronic peritoneal dialysis. The prevalence of RLS was measured using IRLSSG's RLS Questionnaire (RLSQ). Potential risk factors for RLS including other sleep disorders, underlying cause of chronic renal failure, duration on dialysis, dialysis shift, biochemical tests and demographic data were also evaluated. The overall prevalence of RLS was 50.22% including 53.7% males and 46.3% females. Their mean age was 55.7 +/- 17.2 years and mean duration on dialysis 40.4 +/- 37.8 months. Significant predictors of RLS were history of diabetes mellitus (DM), coffee intake, afternoon dialysis, gender and type of dialysis (P= 0.03, 0.01, < 0.001, 0.05 and 0.009 respectively). Patients with RLS were found to be at increased risk of having insomnia and excessive daytime sleepiness (EDS) (P= < 0.001 and 0.001, respectively). Our study suggests that RLS is a very common problem in dialysis population and was significantly associated with other sleep disorders, particularly insomnia, and EDS. Optimal care of dialysis patient should include particular attention to the diagnosis and management of sleep disorders.

UI  - 19413144
TI  - Cognitive behavioral therapy for patients with primary insomnia or insomnia associated predominantly with mixed psychiatric disorders: a randomized clinical trial.
AB  - A fixed 4-session "dose" of CBT produced similar benefits for patients with primary and those with comorbid insomnia across most measures examined. Thus, CBT appears to be a viable psychological insomnia therapy both for those with primary insomnia and for groups composed mainly of patients with insomnia and nonpsychotic psychiatric conditions.

UI  - 19410509
TI  - The effects of pregabalin on sleep disturbance symptoms among individuals with fibromyalgia syndrome.
AB  - These data demonstrate improvement in FM-related sleep dysfunction with pregabalin therapy. The majority of this benefit was a direct effect of pregabalin on the patients' insomnia, while the remainder occurred through the drug's analgesic activity.

UI  - 19403468
TI  - Controlled clinical trial of zolpidem for the treatment of insomnia associated with attention-deficit/ hyperactivity disorder in children 6 to 17 years of age.
AB  - Zolpidem at a dose of 0.25 mg/kg per day to a maximum of 10 mg failed to reduce the latency to persistent sleep on polysomnographic recordings after 4 weeks of treatment in children and adolescents 6 through 17 years of age who had attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder-associated insomnia.

UI  - 19396540
TI  - The effects of respiratory sinus arrhythmia biofeedback on heart rate variability and posttraumatic stress disorder symptoms: a pilot study.
AB  - Recent studies have found a significant association between PTSD and low heart rate variability (HRV), a biomarker of autonomic dysregulation. Research indicates that respiratory sinus arrhythmia (RSA) biofeedback increases HRV while reducing related pathological symptoms. This controlled pilot study compared RSA biofeedback to progressive muscle relaxation (PMR) as adjunctive interventions for 38 persons with PTSD symptoms in a residential treatment facility for a substance use disorder. Both groups were assessed at pre-intervention and 4-week post-intervention. Group x time interactions revealed significantly greater reductions in depressive symptoms and increases in HRV indices for the RSA group. Both groups significantly reduced PTSD and insomnia symptoms and a statistical trend was observed for reduced substance craving for the RSA group. Increases in HRV were significantly associated with PTSD symptom reduction. Overall, these results provide preliminary support for the efficacy of RSA biofeedback in improving physiological and psychological health for individuals with PTSD.

UI  - 19351801
TI  - Effects on sleep stages and microarchitecture of caffeine and its combination with zolpidem or trazodone in healthy volunteers.
AB  - Caffeine is the world's most popular stimulant and is known to disrupt sleep. Administration of caffeine can therefore be used in healthy volunteers to mimic the effects of insomnia and thus to test the hypnotic effects of medication. This study assessed the effects of caffeine on sleep architecture and electroencephalography (EEG) spectrum alone and in combination with two different sleep-promoting medications. Home polysomnography was performed in 12 healthy male volunteers in a double-blind study whereby subjects received placebo, caffeine (150 mg), caffeine plus zolpidem (10 mg) and caffeine plus trazodone (100 mg) at bedtime in a randomised crossover design. In addition to delaying sleep onset, caffeine decreased total sleep time (TST), sleep efficiency (SE) and stage 2 sleep without significantly altering wake after sleep onset or the number of awakenings. Zolpidem attenuated the caffeine-induced decrease in SE and increased spindle density in the caffeine plus zolpidem combination compared with placebo. Trazodone attenuated the decrease in SE and TST, and it also increased stage 3 sleep, decreased the number of awakenings and decreased the spindle density. No significant changes in rapid eye movement (REM) sleep were observed, neither was any significant alteration in slow wave activity nor other EEG spectral measures, although the direction of change was similar to that previously reported for caffeine and appeared to 'normalise' after trazodone. These data suggest that caffeine mimics some, but not all of the sleep disruption seen in insomnia and that its disruptive effects are differentially attenuated by the actions of sleep-promoting compounds with distinct mechanisms of action.

UI  - 19349630
TI  - Triple-combination pharmacotherapy for medically ill smokers: a randomized trial.
AB  - Cancer Institute of New Jersey and Robert Wood Johnson Foundation.

UI  - 19346160
TI  - A 2-week efficacy and safety study of gaboxadol and zolpidem using electronic diaries in primary insomnia outpatients.
AB  - Gaboxadol 15mg treatment for 2 weeks significantly improved sleep onset and maintenance variables as well as sleep quality and daytime function, as did zolpidem. Gaboxadol 5 and 10mg also showed benefits on most efficacy variables. Gaboxadol was generally safe and well tolerated, with no evidence of withdrawal symptoms or rebound insomnia after discontinuation of short-term treatment. For zolpidem, transient rebound insomnia was observed.

UI  - 19345644
TI  - The partial positive allosteric GABA(A) receptor modulator EVT 201 is efficacious and safe in the treatment of adult primary insomnia patients.
AB  - This first study of EVT 201 in adult patients with primary insomnia demonstrated improved measures of sleep onset and sleep maintenance, including during the third and fourth quarters of the night. Adverse events were infrequent and all were mild to moderate in severity.

UI  - 19344044
TI  - Intensity and treatment of symptoms in 3,030 palliative care patients: a cross-sectional survey of the EAPC Research Network.
AB  - This survey shows that clinically relevant symptoms are frequent and that one-third to half of the patients with a symptom observed as moderate or severe do not receive any treatment aimed to reduce the symptom intensity. Several symptoms and treatments differed between WHO-groups, cancer diagnoses, metastasis locations, countries, and genders. Prescription practice varied between countries both in terms of medication administered and percent of patients receiving specific treatment.

UI  - 19330598
TI  - Low-dose estradiol for climacteric symptoms in Japanese women: a randomized, controlled trial.
AB  - The dose of 0.5 mg/day was effective as the oral E2 starting dose for treatment of hot flushes in Japanese women.

UI  - 19330582
TI  - An experimental assessment of a Pennebaker writing intervention in primary insomnia.
AB  - This study considers the role of pre-sleep cognitive arousal, worry, and inhibition in sleep onset difficulties. The Pennebaker writing task, which promotes emotional processing by asking people to write about their thoughts, worries, and emotions, has proven effective in several areas of health. Here, the paradigm's ability to reduce pre-sleep cognitive arousal (PSCA) and sleep onset latency (SOL) in people with insomnia was tested. Twenty-eight people with insomnia were randomized to three nights of Pennebaker writing or a control condition, following a one-night baseline. The outcomes of change over baseline at Day 4 in pre-sleep cognitive arousal and SOL were compared. Writing significantly reduced pre-sleep cognitive arousal on one out of two measures, but did not significantly reduce SOL.

UI  - 19329546
TI  - Randomised double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of the effects of the 'party pills' BZP/TFMPP alone and in combination with alcohol.
AB  - The objective of this study was to determine the clinical effects of party pills containing benzylpiperazine (BZP) and trifluoromethylphenylpiperazine (TFMPP) when taken alone and in combination with alcohol. The study was a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial conducted in a hospital-based clinic in Wellington, New Zealand. Thirty-five volunteers who had previously used party pills containing BZP were included in this trial. Participants received one of the following four treatments: 300 mg/74 mg BZP/TFMPP and placebo, 300 mg/74 mg BZP/TFMPP and 57.6 g (6 units) alcohol, placebo and 57.6 g (6 units) alcohol and double placebo. The primary outcome variable was a measure of driving performance, the standard deviation of lateral position (SDLP) measured at 6.5 h. Secondary measures included adverse events, cardiovascular effects, psychological function and delayed effects on sleep. The study was stopped early, after 35 of the planned 64 subjects had undertaken testing, because of severe adverse events that occurred in four of 10 BZP/TFMPP-only subjects, three of seven combined BZP/TFMPP and alcohol subjects, none of the 6 placebo subjects, and none of the 12 alcohol-only subjects. The overall rate of severe adverse events (defined as causing considerable interference with usual activity and/or rated by subject as severe) in those receiving BZP/TFMPP was seven of 17 (41.2%, 95% CI 18.4-67.1). The severe events included agitation, anxiety, hallucinations, vomiting, insomnia and migraine. BZP/TFMPP significantly improved the driving performance, decreasing SDLP at -4.2 cm (95% CI -6.8 to -1.6, P = 0.002). The effect of alcohol was to increase SDLP: 2.3 cm (95% CI -0.3 to 4.9, P = 0.08). BZP/TFMPP also resulted in increased heart rate and blood pressure and in difficulty in getting to sleep. BZP/TFMPP alone or with alcohol carries a significant risk of severe adverse events when taken in similar doses to those recommended by manufacturers.

UI  - 19323872
TI  - Bright light therapy for agitation in dementia: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Bright light therapy is a potential alternative to drug treatment in people with dementia who are agitated.

UI  - 19317379
TI  - Effect of ramelteon on middle-of-the-night balance in older adults with chronic insomnia.
AB  - In older adults, ramelteon did not impair middle-of-the night balance, mobility, or memory relative to placebo.

UI  - 19317378
TI  - Ramelteon for insomnia symptoms in a community sample of adults with generalized anxiety disorder: an open label study.
AB  - Data from this 12-week open-label study suggests ramelteon is an effective and generally well tolerated treatment for insomnia symptoms in this community sample of adults with GAD.

UI  - 19294955
TI  - Efficacy and safety of 6-month nightly ramelteon administration in adults with chronic primary insomnia.
AB  - In adults with chronic insomnia, long-term ramelteon treatment consistently reduced sleep onset, with no next-morning residual effects or rebound insomnia or withdrawal symptoms upon discontinuation.

UI  - 19294953
TI  - Evaluation of a school-based intervention for adolescent sleep problems.
AB  - School-based sleep interventions for adolescents are a novel method for addressing a prevalent problem. Future programs should develop ways to motivate adolescents to change sleep practices.

UI  - 19284927
TI  - Safety and subjective sleep effects of ramelteon administration in adults and older adults with chronic primary insomnia: a 1-year, open-label study.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00671086.

UI  - 19251877
TI  - Organizational justice and sleeping problems: The Whitehall II study.
AB  - This study shows that perceived unfair treatment at workplace is associated with increased risk of poor sleep quality in men and women, one potential mechanism through which justice at work may affect health.

UI  - 19251866
TI  - Anger expression and sleep quality in patients with coronary heart disease: findings from the Heart and Soul Study.
AB  - Anger suppression is associated with poor sleep quality in patients with CHD. Whether modifying anger expression can improve sleep quality or reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality deserves further study.

UI  - 19238813
TI  - Behavioral correlates of sleep-disordered breathing in older men.
AB  - Daytime sleepiness, nighttime sleep disturbances, and sleep-related quality of life were modestly associated with TST. After adjustment for TST, there was no independent association with SDB severity. These results underscore the potential differences in SDB functional outcomes in older versus young and middle-aged adults.

UI  - 19237617
TI  - Ramelteon for the treatment of insomnia in menopausal women.
AB  - Overall, results suggest that ramelteon is an effective non-hormonal approach for the treatment of insomnia in menopause. Randomized-controlled trials are needed to further evaluate the efficacy of this intervention.

UI  - 19226897
TI  - Clinical study on the visceral differentiation-based acupuncture therapy for insomnia.
AB  - The visceral differentiation-based acupuncture therapy may enhance the therapeutic effects for insomnia patients.

UI  - 19222323
TI  - Decomposing depression: on the prospective and reciprocal dynamics of mood and sleep disturbances.
AB  - Sleep disturbances are among the most common and debilitating aspects of major depressive disorder. In a sample of unmedicated adults experiencing a current depressive episode (N participants = 99, N data points = 428), the authors examined the longitudinal dynamics of sleep disturbances and mood symptoms across a 17-week acupuncture treatment study using latent difference score structural equation modeling. Results indicated that changes in sleep and mood disturbances could be characterized as a single bivariate system where low levels of mood symptoms lead to increases in sleep disturbances, whereas high levels of sleep disturbance exert a dampening effect on mood symptoms. Movement of the bivariate system toward or away from better outcomes depended on the precise combination of sleep-mood symptoms; without knowing the state and trajectory of both variables, predicting change in either sleep or mood symptoms was limited. The results have implications for better understanding the complexity and reciprocity of sleep-mood associations, as well as the dynamic, time-based predictors of depressive treatment response.

UI  - 19192438
TI  - Efficacy and safety of doxepin 1 mg, 3 mg, and 6 mg in elderly patients with primary insomnia: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled crossover study.
AB  - In this 2-night study of elderly adults with primary insomnia, doxepin doses of 1 mg, 3 mg, and 6 mg were well tolerated and produced significant improvement in objective and subjective sleep maintenance and duration endpoints that persisted into the final hour of the night. Positive effects on patient-reported sleep onset were observed at the highest dose. All 3 doxepin doses had a safety profile comparable to placebo. These data demonstrate that doxepin was efficacious in improving sleep in elderly adults.

UI  - 19188575
TI  - Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of XP13512/GSK1838262 in patients with RLS.
AB  - XP13512 1,200 mg, taken once daily, significantly improved restless legs syndrome (RLS) symptoms compared with placebo and was generally well tolerated in adults with moderate to severe primary RLS.

UI  - 19187411
TI  - Scheduled bright light for treatment of insomnia in older adults.
AB  - Except for one subjective measure, scheduled morning or evening bright light effects were not different from those of scheduled dim light. Thus, support was not found for bright light treatment of older individuals with primary insomnia.

UI  - 19174368
TI  - Static magnetotherapy for the treatment of insomnia.
AB  - Magnets have been used for centuries to treat a number of physical disorders. The vast majority of research, however, on static magnet therapy for insomnia has been confined to the auricular type of therapy, with publications limited to Chinese journals. Most of these studies have depended on the subjective self-assessment of participants rather than objective scientific measurements. In this study, the authors report the positive preliminary results of insomnia treatment using pillows with embedded magnets, magnetic insoles and TriPhase bracelets. The analysis is based on objective actigraphic and polysomnographic data. A theory of accelerated transition from wakefulness to sleep is proposed to explain the process of insomnia relief through low-strength static magnetic fields. Analysis by functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI) is used to further investigate the theory.

UI  - 19171070
TI  - Effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of an educational intervention for practice teams to deliver problem focused therapy for insomnia: rationale and design of a pilot cluster randomised trial.
AB  - Previous studies in adults have shown that psychological treatments for insomnia administered by specialist nurses to groups of patients can be effective within a primary care setting. This will be a pilot study to determine whether an educational intervention aimed at primary care teams to deliver problem focused therapy for insomnia can improve sleep management and outcomes for individual adult patients presenting to general practice. The study will also test procedures and collect information in preparation for a larger definitive cluster-randomised trial. The study is funded by The Health Foundation.

UI  - 19132712
TI  - A non-randomized study to investigate the effects of the atypical antipsychotic aripiprazole on the steady-state pharmacokinetics of lamotrigine in patients with bipolar I disorder.
AB  - Aripiprazole had no meaningful effect on lamotrigine steady-state pharmacokinetics in patients with bipolar I disorder. No dosage adjustment of lamotrigine is required and the combination was generally safe and well tolerated.

UI  - 19127908
TI  - [Observation on the therapeutic effect of neck clustered needling on insomnia].
AB  - The therapeutic effect of the neck clustered needling on insomnia is better than that of the medicine.

UI  - 19124316
TI  - Epidemiology of insomnia in Malaysian adults: a community-based survey in 4 urban areas.
AB  - This study aimed to determine the prevalence and pattern of insomnia in a Malaysian population aged 30 to 70 years. The sample consisted of 1611 subjects, recruited by stratified random sampling and interviewed using a semistructured questionnaire conducted in 2004. This was a community-based survey in 4 Malaysian states. The prevalence of insomnia symptom was 33.8%, and 12.2% of the subjects had chronic insomnia. Insomnia was more common among elderly; those who were separated, divorced, or widowed; and those who smoked at bedtime. Subjects with insomnia had a higher prevalence of feeling depressed (12.7), loss of concentration (19.1%), exhaustion (17.2%), poor memory (9.2%), decreased work productivity (6.4%), and perceived poor health status (40.9%; all, P < .05). A total of 22.2% of those with insomnia had excessive daytime sleepiness based on their Epworth Sleepiness Score (P = <.001). Those with insomnia used more sedatives (9.9%) compared with those without insomnia (2.6%; P < .001). About one-third of the population had insomnia associated with impaired daily function. This study concluded that insomnia is common in Malaysian adult population, and it has significant impact on psychological well being and daily functioning.

UI  - 19116896
TI  - Sodium oxybate relieves pain and improves function in fibromyalgia syndrome: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter clinical trial.
AB  - Sodium oxybate therapy was well tolerated and significantly improved the symptoms of FMS. Further study of sodium oxybate as a novel therapeutic option for FMS is warranted.

UI  - 20581790
TI  - The efficacy and tolerability of once-daily controlled-release trazodone for depressed mood, anxiety, insomnia, and suicidality in major depressive disorder.
AB  - Trazodone Contramid(R) once-a-day (TzCOAD) is a reformulation of trazodone hydrochloride that controls the release of trazodone over 24 hours. A standard effect size analysis (Cohen's d) determined which items of the 17-item Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAMD-17) and the Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS) showed the greatest improvement in patients with major depressive disorder (MDD), following up to 8 weeks of therapy with TzCOAD. An additional insomnia analysis assessed whether the efficacy of TzCOAD is influenced by improvements in insomnia or baseline severity of insomnia. The analyses used data from a randomized study of 412 patients receiving 150-375 mg TzCOAD (N = 206) or placebo (N = 206). The results of the Cohen's d analysis on the modified intent-to-treat population (LOCF) showed HAMD items with the greatest improvement were insomnia items (middle (-0.35), late (-0.24)), feelings of guilt (-0.24), and depressed mood (-0.23); for MADRS items they were reduced sleep (-0.31), inner tension (-0.22), reported sadness (-0.21), and suicidal thoughts (-0.21). An analysis of covariance showed no significant interaction between improvements in the HAMD Bech-6 core symptoms of depression and the baseline MADRS reduced sleep item or early changes in the HAMD-17 sleep disturbance factor. These results suggest that the antidepressant efficacy was independent of the baseline severity of insomnia and of the improvement in insomnia. Overall, the results elucidate the efficacy components and tolerability characteristics previously demonstrated for TzCOAD monotherapy for patients with MDD at the recommended daily dose of 300 mg.

UI  - 19115423
TI  - Cognitive-behavioural, pharmacological and psychosocial predictors of outcome during tapered discontinuation of benzodiazepine.
AB  - Eighty-six participants wishing to stop benzodiazepine and who met DSM-IV (Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, 4th ed. American Psychological Association, 1994) criteria for anxiety disorder or insomnia were assessed pre- and post-taper on clinical, pharmacological and psychosocial measures. An initial cohort of 41 participants received treatment as usual (taper only) plus physician counselling in the same clinic setting. A second cohort of 45 participants were randomly allocated to group cognitive-behavioural therapy (CBT) plus taper, or group support (GS) plus taper. At 3 months follow-up, the outcomes in both the CBT and the GS subgroups were equivalent. Intention to treat analysis revealed a slight advantage to the CBT over the GS group and the CBT group showed higher self-efficacy post-taper.Over all 86 participants, a high-baseline level of psychological distress, anxiety and dosage predicted a poor outcome, but increase in self-efficacy contributed to a successful outcome particularly in those with initially poor baseline predictors. Although there was a decrease in positive affect during preliminary stages of tapered discontinuation compared to baseline, there was no significant overall increase in negative affect.

UI  - 19114261
TI  - Mindfulness meditation and cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia: a naturalistic 12-month follow-up.
AB  - A unique intervention combining mindfulness meditation with cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia (CBT-I) has been shown to have acute benefits at posttreatment in an open label study. The aim of the present study was to examine the long-term effects of this integrated intervention on measures of sleep and sleep-related distress in an attempt to characterize the natural course of insomnia following this treatment and to identify predictors of poor long-term outcome. Analyses were conducted on 21 participants, who provided follow-up data at six and 12 months posttreatment. At each time point, participants completed one week of sleep and meditation diaries and questionnaires related to mindfulness, sleep, and sleep-related distress, including the Pre-Sleep Arousal Scale, the Glasgow Sleep Effort Scale, the Kentucky Inventory of Mindfulness Skills, and the Insomnia Episode Questionnaire. Analyses examining the pattern of change across time (baseline, end of treatment, six months, and 12 months) revealed that several sleep-related benefits were maintained during the 12-month follow-up period. Participants who reported at least one insomnia episode (>or=1 month) during the follow-up period had higher scores on the Pre-Sleep Arousal Scale (P < .05) and the Glasgow Sleep Effort Scale (P < .05) at end of treatment compared with those with no insomnia episodes. Correlations between mindfulness skills and insomnia symptoms revealed significant negative correlations (P < .05) between mindfulness skills and daytime sleepiness at each of the three time points but not with nocturnal symptoms of insomnia. These results suggest that most sleep-related benefits of an intervention combining CBT-I and mindfulness meditation were maintained during the 12-month follow-up period, with indications that higher presleep arousal and sleep effort at end of treatment constitute a risk for occurrence of insomnia during the 12 months following treatment.

UI  - 19112384
TI  - Trazodone improves the results of cognitive behaviour therapy of primary insomnia in non-depressed patients.
AB  - CBT, singly and combined with the sedative antidepressant trazodone, is effective for the short-term management of chronic primary insomnia. Trazodone combined with CBT significantly increases slow wave sleep duration and this influence seems to be unrelated to its antidepressant effect.

UI  - 19090531
TI  - Behavioral therapy intervention trial to improve sleep quality and cancer-related fatigue.
AB  - The BT group showed improved sleep quality over time and better sleep (diary). Perceptions of improved sleep quality over time are not consistently associated with diary or actigraph, or result in lower fatigue.

UI  - 19090503
TI  - Effects of long-term exposure to ramelteon, a melatonin receptor agonist, on endocrine function in adults with chronic insomnia.
AB  - Long-term exposure to ramelteon 16 mg, a potent melatonin receptor agonist, resulted in mild, transient increase in prolactin, in women only, that were not associated with measurable reproductive effects. There were no consistent changes in other endocrine measures.

UI  - 19090322
TI  - APD125, a selective serotonin 5-HT(2A) receptor inverse agonist, significantly improves sleep maintenance in primary insomnia.
AB  - APD125 produced statistically significant improvements in objective parameters of sleep maintenance and sleep consolidation and was well tolerated in adults with primary chronic insomnia.

UI  - 19078947
TI  - The use of a clinical utility index to compare insomnia compounds: a quantitative basis for benefit-risk assessment.
AB  - The use of a clinical utility index (CUI) was proposed in order to compare two calcium channel alpha2delta ligands that were in development for the treatment of insomnia. The important attributes included in the CUI were two measures of residual sedation and five measures of efficacy (wake after sleep onset, sleep quality, sleep latency, and sleep stages (stage 1 and stages 3-4)). Dose-response analyses were conducted on each end point, and a sensitivity analysis was conducted to determine a clinically meaningful difference in CUI. Nonparametric bootstrap parameters were used to build confidence intervals (CIs). Peak CUI (80% CI) was 0.345 (0.25-0.43), observed at a dose of approximately 30 mg with the lead compound and 0.436 (0.35-0.52) observed at >600-mg dose for the backup. Although CUI was slightly greater for the backup, peak CUI values were observed at doses that were not considered viable, and therefore development of the ligand was discontinued. The use of the CUI allowed an efficient, quantitative, and transparent decision.

UI  - 19054552
TI  - Melatonin agonist tasimelteon (VEC-162) for transient insomnia after sleep-time shift: two randomised controlled multicentre trials.
AB  - After an abrupt advance in sleep time, tasimelteon improved sleep initiation and maintenance concurrently with a shift in endogenous circadian rhythms. Tasimelteon may have therapeutic potential for transient insomnia in circadian rhythm sleep disorders.

UI  - 19040335
TI  - Beneficial acute antidepressant effects of aripiprazole as an adjunctive treatment or monotherapy in bipolar patients unresponsive to mood stabilizers: results from a 16-week open-label trial.
AB  - Aripiprazole was associated with beneficial effects on mood in patients with bipolar depression, and appears well tolerated with very small changes in mean body weight. These results highlight the potential benefits of aripiprazole for bipolar disorder patients. However, double-blind, placebo-controlled studies are necessary to confirm aripiprazole's efficacy, tolerability and safety in bipolar depression.

UI  - 19034253
TI  - Efficacy of wrists overnight compression (HT 7 point) on insomniacs: possible role of melatonin?
AB  - It is plausible to hypothesize that the wrist acupressure device might be considered a valid tool, without adverse effects since it does not contain pharmaceutical products, that is able to naturally ameliorate sleep quality in insomniacs, acting through a not jet completely clarified mechanism, that may involve melatonin.

UI  - 19027437
TI  - Pretherapy cognitive dispositions and treatment outcome in cognitive behavior therapy for insomnia.
AB  - This study consisted of secondary analyses of data from 2 randomized clinical trials to test whether pretherapy cognitions predict CBT outcomes. The sample consisted of 155 primary insomnia patients with sleep maintenance complaints. Of these, 98 were randomized to CBT, 23 were assigned to progressive muscle relaxation training (PMR), and 34 were assigned to a control (sham therapy or wait-list) condition (CON). All patients completed the Dysfunctional Beliefs and Attitudes about Sleep Scale (DBAS), a sleep-related Self-Efficacy Scale (SES) and nightly sleep diaries for 2 weeks prior to receiving their assigned treatment. They then completed sleep diaries throughout an 8-week acute treatment period and during a 2-week period at a posttherapy follow-up. A subset of the sample (n=67) also completed polysomnography immediately before and after completing their assigned treatment. Preliminary regression analyses conducted with a small subset (n=15) of the patients receiving CBT showed those with relatively high levels of unhelpful sleep-related beliefs (Type 1 patients), as reflected by their pretherapy responses to the DBAS and SES questionnaires, showed markedly greater reductions in nocturnal wakefulness in response to CBT than did those (Type 2 patients) reporting less pronounced sleep-related beliefs. Given these findings, we used the regression equation derived from our initial analyses to dichotomize our entire sample into Type 1 (n=82; 52.9%) and Type 2 (n=73; 47.1%) subgroups. Subsequent comparisons showed CBT-treated Type 1 patients had significantly less wake time after sleep onset during most of the 8-week treatment phase than did the Type 1 and 2 individuals assigned to either PMR or CON. Relative to patients assigned to the PMR and CON conditions, CBT-treated Type 1 patients showed better performance across multiple subjective and objective benchmarks of clinically significant improvement, whereas the CBT-treated Type 2 patients did not. Results suggest that insomnia patients' pretherapy cognitive dispositions predict CBT outcome, and those with a pronounced sense of sleep-related helplessness are best suited for this treatment which targets this cognitive stance.

UI  - 19021129
TI  - The influence of priming and pre-existing knowledge of chemotherapy-associated cognitive complaints on the reporting of such complaints in breast cancer patients.
AB  - Our study shows that facilitating the accessibility of concepts related to chemotherapy-associated cognitive complaints directly increases the reporting of such complaints, in particular in patients without firsthand chemotherapy experience. This increase in prevalence of cognitive complaints following a chronically or temporarily accessible 'chemo-brain' schema has relevant implications for clinical practice and for scientific research in this area.

UI  - 19014072
TI  - Prospective randomized study of patients with insomnia and mild sleep disordered breathing.
AB  - Surgical intervention for the management of patients with complaints of insomnia and mild OSA demonstrated greater improvement in both subjective and objective outcome measures. Initial treatment of underlying OSA in patients with insomnia was more successful in improving insomnia than CBT-I alone. However CBT-I as initial treatment improved TST compared to baseline; following surgical intervention, it had the additional benefit of further increasing TST and helped to control sleep onset difficulties that may be related to conditioning due to unrecognized symptoms of mild OSA.

UI  - 18996742
TI  - Sublingual zolpidem is more effective than oral zolpidem in initiating early onset of sleep in the post-nap model of transient insomnia: a polysomnographic study.
AB  - The present results show that OX22, a sublingual formulation of zolpidem, has a significant earlier sleep initiation as compared to an equivalent dose of oral zolpidem in healthy volunteers in a post-nap model of insomnia.

UI  - 18946234
TI  - A double-blind non-inferiority clinical study of montelukast, a cysteinyl leukotriene receptor 1 antagonist, compared with pranlukast in patients with seasonal allergic rhinitis.
AB  - The results indicate that administration of montelukast 5mg and 10mg once daily are potent alternatives for the treatment of seasonal allergic rhinitis and demonstrated that the efficacy and the safety profiles are comparable with pranlukast 450mg/day.

UI  - 18936766
TI  - The association between sleep duration and obesity in older adults.
AB  - In older men and women, actigraphy-ascertained reduced sleep durations are strongly associated with greater adiposity.

UI  - 18853933
TI  - Effect of gaboxadol on sleep in adult and elderly patients with primary insomnia: results from two randomized, placebo-controlled, 30-night polysomnography studies.
AB  - The maximum studied doses of gaboxadol (GBX15 in adult patients and GBX10 in elderly patients) were effective at enhancing objective polysomnography measures of sleep maintenance and SWS, and also some subjective sleep measures, over 30 nights but had little or no effects on sleep onset. The clinical relevance of the enhancement of SWS by gaboxadol is unclear.

UI  - 18852348
TI  - Sodium oxybate for excessive daytime sleepiness in Parkinson disease: an open-label polysomnographic study.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00641186.

UI  - 18850496
TI  - Pilot study of lorazepam and tiagabine effects on sleep, motor learning, and impulsivity in cocaine abstinence.
AB  - These results introduce the possibility of different, sleep-related cognitive effects of mechanistically distinct GABAergic sedative hypnotics.

UI  - 18844819
TI  - Sleep loss affects vigilance: effects of chronic insomnia and sleep therapy.
AB  - Although complaints of impaired daytime functioning are essential to the diagnosis of primary insomnia, objective evidence for cognitive dysfunction has been hard to establish. A prerequisite for understanding the neurocognitive consequences of primary insomnia is to establish task paradigms that robustly differentiate insomniacs from well-sleeping subjects. We hypothesized that the decline in performance that typically occurs with an increasing cognitive demand would provide a more sensitive measure than performance on a single task version. The hypothesis was tested, first, by assessing the performance on two vigilance tasks with different cognitive demands in 25 elderly patients with primary insomnia and 13 healthy well-sleeping age-matched subjects. Secondly, we investigated the performance response to sleep therapy using a waiting-list controlled design. Sleep therapy consisted of a multi-component intervention including sleep restriction, cognitive behavioral therapy, bright-light therapy, structured physical activity and body temperature manipulations. The results show that insomniacs differed markedly from controls in their reaction times across tasks with different cognitive demands: patients responded faster on the 'simple' vigilance task, yet slower on the 'complex' vigilance task. Sleep therapy effectively restored normal performance: patients became significantly slower on the 'simple' task and faster on the 'complex' task, returning to the performance levels of control subjects. These findings indicate that the performance decline associated with increasing cognitive demands is possibly the first sensitive and robust measure of the neurocognitive sequelae of insomnia. We suggest that future studies on cognition in primary insomnia should apply a design that varies task demands.

UI  - 18807726
TI  - [Comparison of therapeutic effects of electroacupuncture treatment of insomnia at different time].
AB  - Evening-EA can significantly lower insomnia patients' PSQI score, raise sleep rate, and reduce the hypnotic-taking frequency. Evening-EA is superior to morning-EA in the treatment of insomnia.

UI  - 18801639
TI  - Self-help treatment for insomnia through television and book: a randomized trial.
AB  - About 2% of the Dutch adult population has watched the regular broadcastings of the course after the trial ended. This huge number of viewers underlines that there is a need for this type of low cost self-help treatment.

UI  - 18788653
TI  - Low-dose sublingual zolpidem tartrate is associated with dose-related improvement in sleep onset and duration in insomnia characterized by middle-of-the-night (MOTN) awakenings.
AB  - Low-dose sublingual zolpidem tartrate may be suitable for treatment of patients who have difficulty resuming sleep after MOTN awakenings.

UI  - 18788652
TI  - Prefrontal hypoactivation and recovery in insomnia.
AB  - Insomnia interferes in a reversible fashion with activation of the prefrontal cortical system during daytime task performance.

UI  - 18782876
TI  - Control of childhood congenital adrenal hyperplasia and sleep activity and quality with morning or evening glucocorticoid therapy.
AB  - With respect to disease control, sleep quality and daytime activity were not affected by treatment schedules. We recommend the high-morning dose schedule in replacement therapy of children with CAH.

UI  - 18781665
TI  - Which symptoms predict recurrence of depression in women treated with maintenance interpersonal psychotherapy?
AB  - Persistent insomnia following the recovery from an episode of recurrent major depression is associated with increased risk of recurrence despite maintenance psychotherapy, particularly for those withdrawn from antidepressant medication.

UI  - 18716392
TI  - Evaluation of an internet-based self-help program for better quality of sleep among Japanese workers: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - The effectiveness of Internet-based self-help programs for insomnia is still unclear. A randomized controlled trial was conducted to evaluate the effect of an Internet-based self-help program for better quality of sleep among adult workers. Forty-three volunteers were recruited and randomly assigned to either an intervention group (n=21) or a waiting-list group (n=22). The intervention group participated in a two-week Internet-based program, including selecting and daily practicing sleep-related target behaviors and monitoring those behaviors along with sleep quality. At the same time, each participant received automatically generated, personalized messages and reports both daily and weekly. A total of 12 intervention group participants and 18 waiting-list group participants completed questionnaires at baseline, post-intervention, and at a 3-wk follow-up. Subjective sleep quality was measured by a self-reported questionnaire developed for this study. The sleep quality score increased in the intervention group at post-intervention, with a significant interaction effect [F(1,28)=5.19, p=0.031]. Sleep-related behaviors also greatly increased in the intervention group at post-intervention, with a significant interaction effect [F(1,28)=7.14, p=0.012]. Sleep-onset latency reduced in the intervention group at follow-up, with a marginally significant effect [F(1,28)=3.52, p=0.071]. The Internet-based self-help program improves subjective sleep quality and sleep-onset latency among adult workers.

UI  - 18691937
TI  - The effects of ramelteon in a first-night model of transient insomnia.
AB  - Ramelteon 8 mg significantly decreased latency to persistent sleep and increased total sleep time, with no significant next-morning psychomotor, memory, or cognitive effects in this first-night model of transient insomnia.

UI  - 18672743
TI  - Abdominal acupuncture for insomnia in women: a randomized controlled clinical trial.
AB  - A randomized single-blind trial was conducted to evaluate the efficacy of short-term abdominal acupuncture as a novel treatment for insomnia in Chinese women. Forty-four patients between the ages of 22 and 56 were randomly assigned to an acupuncture (n = 23) and a medication group (n = 21). The acupuncture group received abdominal acupuncture once a day for the first three days and once every three days for the remaining 11 days. In addition, every subject in acupuncture group also received a placebo pill once daily. Abdominal acupuncture was administered according to a standardized protocol involving four master and four adjunctive acupoints: Zhongwan (CV 12), Xiawan (CV 10), Guanyuan (CV 4), and Qihai (CV 6); bilateral Shangqu (KI 17), Huaroumen (ST 24), Xiafengshidian, and Qipang. Subjects in the medication group were treated with sham acupuncture at the same time as the acupuncture group and received estazolam once a day. The outcome measure was the Leeds Sleep Evaluation Questionnaire (LSEQ), administered before and after the trial. Subjects who received abdominal acupuncture lowered their LSEQ scores by an average of 26.32 points (95% CI: 37.34, 15.30). After controlling for potential confounding factors, the effect of abdominal acupuncture in relieving insomnia was still statistically significant. Results indicate that short-term abdominal acupuncture is more effective than pharmacological treatment for relieving insomnia in adult women and has few adverse effects.

UI  - 18662202
TI  - Self-reported napping and duration and quality of sleep in the lifestyle interventions and independence for elders pilot study.
AB  - Napping was a common practice in community-dwelling older adults and did not detract from nighttime sleep duration or quality. Given its high prevalence and association with diabetes mellitus, napping behavior should be assessed as part of sleep behavior in future research and in clinical practice.

UI  - 18655317
TI  - Multicenter case-control study on restless legs syndrome in multiple sclerosis: the REMS study.
AB  - RLS is significantly associated with MS, especially in patients with severe pyramidal and sensory disability. These results strengthen the idea that the inflammatory damage correlated with MS may induce a secondary form of RLS. As it does in idiopathic cases, RLS has a significant impact on sleep quality in patients with MS; therefore, it should be always searched for, particularly in the presence of insomnia unresponsive to treatment with common hypnotic drugs.

UI  - 18652095
TI  - Improving sleep quality in older adults with moderate sleep complaints: A randomized controlled trial of Tai Chi Chih.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT00118885.

UI  - 18652093
TI  - Sleep disturbance during the menopausal transition in a multi-ethnic community sample of women.
AB  - Progression through the menopausal transition as indicated by 3 menopausal characteristics--symptoms, bleeding-defined stages, and endogenous hormone levels--is associated with self-reported sleep disturbances.

UI  - 18630537
TI  - [Effect of acupuncture combined with massage of sole on sleeping quality of the patient with insomnia].
AB  - Abdominal acupuncture as main combined with massage of sole can obviously improve sleeping quality of the patient with insomnia.

UI  - 18622366
TI  - Long-term effectiveness and safety of lisdexamfetamine dimesylate in school-aged children with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder.
AB  - Long-term 30, 50, and 70 mg/day LDX was generally well tolerated and effective in children with ADHD.

UI  - 18595436
TI  - The acute and post-discontinuation effects of a glucocorticoid receptor (GR) antagonist probe on sleep and the HPA axis in chronic insomnia: a pilot study.
AB  - This is the first study of a GR antagonist in chronic insomnia. Sleep improvement manifests in terms of decreased ISI post-treatment discontinuation. The decrease in cortisol in the early evening (18:00 to 23:00) in combination with the decrease in cortisol/ ACTH ratio may be an indicator of the longer-term biological mode of action of the drug.

UI  - 18595435
TI  - A polysomnographic placebo-controlled evaluation of the efficacy and safety of eszopiclone relative to placebo and zolpidem in the treatment of primary insomnia.
AB  - Relative to placebo, all active treatments were effective in reducing LPS and increasing SE. Eszopiclone 3 mg was significantly different from placebo on the 3 PSG measures of sleep maintenance (WASO, WTDS, and NAW). Significant differences between zolpidem 10 mg and eszopiclone (2 mg or 3 mg) were not observed for PSG-measured outcomes, although the study was not powered to detect differences between the active drug conditions.

UI  - 18591549
TI  - Randomized controlled clinical effectiveness trial of cognitive behavior therapy compared with treatment as usual for persistent insomnia in patients with cancer.
AB  - CBT for insomnia may be both clinically effective and feasible to deliver in real world practice.

UI  - 18446739
TI  - Parathyroidectomy improves the quality of sleep in maintenance hemodialysis patients with severe hyperparathyroidism.
AB  - Sleeping disorders are very common in patients with chronic kidney disease on dialysis (CKD5D) and are an emerging risk factor able to predict mortality. Parathyroid hormone (PTH) although considered a pivotal uremic toxin has rarely been associated with sleep disorders in uremia. In a study from our laboratory PTH concentrations failed to distinguish patients with sleep disorders from those without. In a study performed by Chou et al a 97% prevalence of insomnia was found in patients undergoing hemodialysis requiring parathyroidectomy. Surgery reduced PTH and increased sleeping hours within 3 months. The aim of this study was to study the effects of parathyroidectomy on the sleep disorders of insomniacs on maintenance hemodialysis. The study was performed in 16 insomniac patients on maintenance hemodialysis who successfully underwent surgery with autotransplantation of autologous parathyroid tissue (40 mg) under the skin of the forearm. Patients (5 F and 11 M) were studied from 1 month before surgery to 1 year after. Sleep disorders were assessed by means of a 27-item questionnaire--Sleep Disorder questionnaire (SDQ)--that identified sleeping disorders according to Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders - IV Edition (DSM-IV) criteria. The Charlson Comorbidity Index (CCI) was also measured along with systolic and diastolic blood pressure, Hb, PTH, Ca, P. A 95.5% prevalence of sleep disorders was found pre operatively. Patients slept 4.90+/-1.2 hours, Ca averaged 10.09+/-0.54 mg/dL, Phosphate 5.5+/-1.93, CCI 9.8+/-1.1, PTH 1498+/-498 ng/mL. After 1 year follow-up 2 out 16 patients had normal sleep, 6 out 16 patients had subclinical sleep disorders and 8 remained insomniacs (p=0.008, Mc Nemar Test for paired data, insomniacs vs. no disturbance + subclinical disorders). Sleeping hours increased up to 6.0+/-1.24 (p<0.05), PTH was normalized, the Charlson Comorbidity Index was reduced (p<0.05) as were plasma calcium and phosphate (p<0.01). The study indicates that insomnia in patients with severe hyperparathyroidism on maintenance hemodialysis is ameliorated by parathyroidectomy.

UI  - 18446736
TI  - Insomnia on dialysis nights: the beneficial effects of cool dialysate.
AB  - These observations suggest that the use of cool dialysate during HD may improve nocturnal sleep the night following treatment by decreasing sympathetic activation and sustaining the normally elevated nocturnal skin temperature until later into the morning hours.

UI  - 18584227
TI  - The effects of ramelteon on respiration during sleep in subjects with moderate to severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
AB  - Ramelteon did not produce respiratory depressant effects as measured by oxygenation or abnormal breathing events in subjects with moderate to severe COPD. Ramelteon was well tolerated in this population.

UI  - 18582178
TI  - Unexpected effects of methylphenidate in attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder reflect decreases in core/secondary symptoms and physical complaints common to all children.
AB  - Abstract Hypotheses concerning unexpected, psychostimulant-related effects reported in previous studies were examined by separating behavioral/physical complaints highly specific to methylphenidate (MPH) from those that (a) may mimic core/secondary symptoms of the disorder, or (b) are commonly reported by unmedicated children in the general population. Sixty-five children with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) participated in a double-blind, placebo-controlled, within-subject (crossover) experimental design and received a placebo and four MPH doses in counterbalanced order following baseline assessment. Behavioral and physical complaints were significantly higher under baseline relative to placebo and the four immediate-release MPH conditions (5 mg, 10 mg, 15 mg, and 20 mg) across three symptom categories: ADHD core/secondary symptoms; symptoms commonly reported in the general population, including unmedicated children with ADHD; and symptoms highly specific to MPH. No significant differences were found among active drug conditions. Past unexpected findings of psychostimulant effects in ADHD may be due to the inclusion of scale items that reflect core/secondary features of ADHD and normally occurring behavioral/physical complaints in children.

UI  - 18579216
TI  - Efficacy and safety of quetiapine in combination with lithium or divalproex for maintenance of patients with bipolar I disorder (international trial 126).
AB  - Maintenance treatment with quetiapine in combination with lithium/divalproex significantly increased time to recurrence of any event (mania, depression, or mixed) irrespective of the polarity of the index episode compared with placebo with lithium/divalproex. Long-term treatment with quetiapine was generally well-tolerated. Quetiapine with lithium/divalproex can provide an effective long-term treatment option for bipolar I disorder to prevent recurrences not only of mania but also depression.

UI  - 18569138
TI  - Hypnotherapy in the treatment of chronic combat-related PTSD patients suffering from insomnia: a randomized, zolpidem-controlled clinical trial.
AB  - This study evaluated the benefits of add-on hypnotherapy in patients with chronic PTSD. Thirty-two PTSD patients treated by SSRI antidepressants and supportive psychotherapy were randomized to 2 groups: 15 patients in the first group received Zolpidem 10 mg nightly for 14 nights, and 17 patients in the hypnotherapy group were treated by symptom-oriented hypnotherapy, twice-a-week 1.5-hour sessions for 2 weeks. All patients completed the Stanford Hypnotic Susceptibility Scale, Form C, Beck Depression Inventory, Impact of Event Scale, and Visual Subjective Sleep Quality Questionnaire before and after treatment. There was a significant main effect of the hypnotherapy treatment with PTSD symptoms as measured by the Posttraumatic Disorder Scale. This effect was preserved at follow-up 1 month later. Additional benefits for the hypnotherapy group were decreases in intrusion and avoidance reactions and improvement in all sleep variables assessed.

UI  - 18565592
TI  - Antidepressant-associated chronic irritable dysphoria (ACID) in STEP-BD patients.
AB  - This study does not support the existence of ACID as an independent phenomenon. Rather, ACID appears to be part of a broader spectrum of antidepressant treatment-emergent affective switches.

UI  - 18552629
TI  - Usefulness of mindfulness-based cognitive therapy for treating insomnia in patients with anxiety disorders: a pilot study.
AB  - The objective of this study was to examine the usefulness of a mindfulness-based cognitive therapy (MBCT) for treating insomnia symptoms in patients with anxiety disorder. Nineteen patients with anxiety disorder were assigned to an 8-week MBCT clinical trial. Participants showed significant improvement in Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (Z = -3.46, p = 0.00), Penn State Worry Questionnaire (Z = -3.83, p = 0.00), Ruminative Response Scale (Z = -3.83, p = 0.00), Hamilton Anxiety Rating Scale (Z = -3.73, p = 0.00), and Hamilton Depression Rating Scale scores (Z = -3.06, p = 0.00) at the end of the 8-week program as compared with baseline. Multiple regression analysis showed that baseline Penn State Worry Questionnaire scores were associated with baseline Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index scores. These findings suggest that MBCT can be effective at relieving insomnia symptoms by reducing worry associated sleep disturbances in patients with anxiety disorder. However, well-designed, randomized, controlled trials are needed to confirm our findings.

UI  - 18540923
TI  - A randomized double-blind pilot trial of gabapentin versus placebo to treat alcohol dependence and comorbid insomnia.
AB  - Because gabapentin is a short-acting medication that was taken only at nighttime in this study, it may possibly exert a nocturnal effect that prevents relapse to heavy drinking by a physiological mechanism not measured in this pilot study.

UI  - 18539989
TI  - Melatonin for chronic insomnia in Angelman syndrome: a randomized placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - Previous studies suggested that melatonin improves sleep in insomniac patients with Angelman syndrome. To assess the efficacy of melatonin, a randomized placebo-controlled study was conducted in 8 children with Angelman syndrome with idiopathic chronic insomnia. After a 1-week baseline period, patients received, depending on age, either melatonin 5 or 2.5 mg, or placebo, followed by 4 weeks of open treatment. Parents recorded lights off time, sleep onset time, wake-up time, and epileptic seizures in a diary. Salivary melatonin levels were measured at baseline and the last evening of the fourth treatment week. Melatonin significantly advanced sleep onset by 28 minutes, decreased sleep latency by 32 minutes, increased total sleep time by 56 minutes, reduced the number of nights with wakes from 3.1 to 1.6 nights a week, and increased endogenous salivary melatonin levels. Parents were satisfied with these results. Indications that melatonin dose in Angelman syndrome patients should be low, are discussed.

UI  - 18487899
TI  - T'ai Chi exercise in patients with chronic heart failure.
AB  - TC may enhance quality of life, exercise capacity, and sleep stability in patients with chronic HF.

UI  - 18484552
TI  - Effects of zolpidem on cyclic alternating pattern, an objective marker of sleep instability, in Japanese patients with psychophysiological insomnia: a randomized crossover comparative study with placebo.
AB  - In Japanese patients with psychophysiological insomnia, zolpidem increased sleep stability by significantly improving the overnight CAP rate. Zolpidem also improved sleep depth and sleep quality, both subjectively and objectively.

UI  - 18482867
TI  - A randomized clinical trial of valerian fails to improve self-reported, polysomnographic, and actigraphic sleep in older women with insomnia.
AB  - Valerian did not improve sleep in this sample of older women with insomnia. Findings from this study add to the scientific evidence that does not support use of valerian in the clinical management of insomnia.

UI  - 18480921
TI  - Itch intensity evaluated in the German Atopic Dermatitis Intervention Study (GADIS): correlations with quality of life, coping behaviour and SCORAD severity in 823 children.
AB  - The German Atopic Dermatitis Intervention Study (GADIS), which includes 823 children and adolescents, showed that age-related educational programmes are effective in the long-term management of atopic dermatitis. We investigated whether the itch severity obtained in the scoring of atopic dermatitis (SCORAD) correlates with quality of life and coping behaviour in children and parents. There were significant but low correlations between the severity of atopic dermatitis and the itch intensity. Itch and sleeplessness were significantly correlated. Significant correlations of itch with the coping behaviour and quality of life in parents of children with atopic dermatitis were measured. The coping and itching behaviour of children (8-12 years) and adolescents (13-18 years) had higher significant correlations with the itch compared with the parents' answers. Quality of life in children (8-12 years) and adolescents (13-18 years) showed a significant negative correlation with itch intensity. Quality of life, itch intensity and coping strategies should be considered when treating patients with atopic dermatitis.

UI  - 18478627
TI  - The Children's Sleep Habits Questionnaire in toddlers and preschool children.
AB  - The somewhat higher subscale scores than previously reported for older children appear to be consistent with more sleep problems in younger children.

UI  - 18459154
TI  - A warm footbath before bedtime and sleep in older Taiwanese with sleep disturbance.
AB  - A single-group crossover design was used to examine the effects of a warm footbath on body temperatures, distal-proximal skin temperature gradient (DPG), and sleep outcomes in 15 Taiwanese elders with self-reported sleep disturbance. Body temperatures and polysomnography were recorded for three consecutive nights. Participants were assigned randomly to receive a 41 degrees C footbath for 40 minutes before sleep onset on night 2 or night 3. Mean DPG before lights off was significantly elevated on the bathing night. There were no significant differences in sleep outcomes between the two nights. However, when the first two non-rapid eye movement (NREM) sleep periods were examined, the amount of wakefulness was decreased in the second NREM period on the bathing night.

UI  - 18458207
TI  - Eszopiclone coadministered with escitalopram in patients with insomnia and comorbid generalized anxiety disorder.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00235508.

UI  - 18457236
TI  - Cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia enhances depression outcome in patients with comorbid major depressive disorder and insomnia.
AB  - This pilot study provides evidence that augmenting an antidepressant medication with a brief, symptom focused, cognitive-behavioral therapy for insomnia is promising for individuals with MDD and comorbid insomnia in terms of alleviating both depression and insomnia.

UI  - 18457235
TI  - Is insomnia a perpetuating factor for late-life depression in the IMPACT cohort?
AB  - These findings suggest that, in addition to being a risk factor for a depressive episode, persistent insomnia may serve to perpetuate the illness in some elderly patients and especially in those receiving standard care for depression in primary care settings. Enhanced depression care may partially mitigate the perpetuating effects of insomnia on depression.

UI  - 18456940
TI  - Auricular acupuncture versus sham acupuncture in the treatment of women who have insomnia.
AB  - Only modest evidence was found supporting the hypothesis that AAT may have an effect on insomnia. Least improvements were found in total sleep time and number of awakenings, 2 parameters directly associated with the definition of insomnia. AAT may have a role in the treatment of insomnia, especially in combination with other treatments such as cognitive behavioral therapy. This study provides an example of how to perform studies using alternative therapies for sleep disorders.

UI  - 18454251
TI  - The homeopathic preparation Neurexan vs. valerian for the treatment of insomnia: an observational study.
AB  - Insomnia is prevalent and complementary therapies are common, but data are lacking on the effectiveness and tolerability of preparations beyond valerian. Here we report on an open-label, prospective cohort study in 89 German centers offering both conventional and complementary therapies. Subjects received the homeopathic preparation Neurexan or valerian for 28 days. Doses were at physicians' judgments. Sleep duration and latency were evaluated based on patients' sleep diaries over 14 days; sleep quality was evaluated at 28 +/- 1 days. A total of 409 subjects were enrolled. The groups were balanced at baseline for age, sex, weight, and sleep disturbances. At day 14, both groups reported improved sleep latency and duration; latency was reduced from baseline by 37.3 +/- 36.3 min with Neurexan and by 38.2 +/- 38.5 min with valerian. The duration of sleep increased by 2.2 (+/-1.6) h in the Neurexan group and by 2.0 (+/-1.5) h in the valerian group. Differences between the groups in improvement on sleep duration were significantly in favor of Neurexan therapy at days 8, 12, and 14. At day 28, quality of sleep was improved in both groups with no significant differences between the treatments. Significantly more patients reported lack of daytime fatigue with Neurexan than with valerian therapies (49% vs. 32%; p < 0.05 for the comparison). For patients favorable towards a CAM-based therapy, Neurexan might be an effective and well-tolerated alternative to conventional valerian-based therapies for the treatment of mild to moderate insomnia.

UI  - 18447210
TI  - [Randomized controlled observation on head point-through-point therapy for treatment of insomnia].
AB  - The therapeutic effect of head penetration needling is better than that of the routine acupuncture, and the mechanism is related with regulation of serotonin metabolism.

UI  - 18426457
TI  - Music improves sleep quality in students.
AB  - Relaxing classical music is an effective intervention in reducing sleeping problems. Nurses could use this safe, cheap and easy to learn method to treat insomnia.

UI  - 18417099
TI  - Daytime functioning in older patients suffering from chronic insomnia: treatment outcome in a randomized controlled trial comparing CBT with Zopiclone.
AB  - The paper presents data from a randomized controlled trial comparing treatment effects of cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT), hypnotic treatment (Zopiclone), and placebo in a sample of insomnia patients. Data from the same trial have already demonstrated that CBT was more efficient in improving sleep than Zopiclone. The novel outcomes that are reported here concern daytime functioning. Forty-six older patients (age >or= 55) qualifying for a diagnosis of primary insomnia were recruited to participate. Assessments were completed at baseline, post-treatment, and at a 6-months follow-up, and measures of worry, anxiety, depression, interpersonal relationships, subjective alertness, vigilance, and quality of life were used. The participants in both treatment conditions scored within the normal range on the outcome measures at baseline with the exception of reporting less alertness, relative to a group of good sleepers. One interaction effect indicated that subjective alertness improved more in the Zopiclone group than the CBT group from baseline to post-treatment, and another that CBT was more effective than Zopiclone in reducing trait anxiety from baseline to follow-up. It was concluded that the treatments yielded only minor effects on the measures of daytime functioning, and that none of them was clearly superior to the other.

UI  - 18416075
TI  - Insomnia due to deficiency of both the heart and spleen treated by acupuncture-moxibustion and Chinese tuina.
AB  - The comprehensive therapy of acupuncture-moxibustion and Chinese Tuina can give marked therapeutic effects for treatment of insomnia due to deficiency of both the heart and spleen.

UI  - 18377143
TI  - Hypnotic discontinuation in chronic insomnia: impact of psychological distress, readiness to change, and self-efficacy.
AB  - Chronic users of hypnotic medications entered a taper intervention with equal levels of psychological distress, health, self-efficacy, and readiness to change. Successful hypnotic discontinuation was associated with overall improvement of insomnia, anxiety and distress symptoms, perceived health and self-efficacy. More intensive and individualized therapeutic attention may be warranted for individuals experiencing worsening of insomnia symptoms, more withdrawal symptoms and psychological distress, and lower self-efficacy during medication discontinuation.

UI  - 18374745
TI  - A bidirectional relationship between anxiety and depression, and insomnia? A prospective study in the general population.
AB  - Evidence suggests that there is a bidirectional relationship between, on one hand, anxiety and depression and, on the other hand, insomnia. This suggests that anxiety, depression, and insomnia are intertwined over time, implying implications for theoretical conceptualizations and interventions.

UI  - 18363314
TI  - Sleep in adults with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) before and during treatment with methylphenidate: a controlled polysomnographic study.
AB  - Sleep problems in patients with ADHD continue from childhood to adulthood, with similar objective sleep characteristics in adults and children with ADHD. Medication with methylphenidate appears to have beneficial effects on sleep parameters in adults with ADHD.

UI  - 18362052
TI  - Sleep onset insomnia symptoms during hospitalization for major burn injury predict chronic pain.
AB  - Both cross-sectional studies of chronic pain and sleep deprivation experiments suggest a bi-directional relationship between sleep and pain. Few longitudinal studies, however, have assessed whether acute insomnia following traumatic injury predicts the development of persistent pain. We sought to evaluate (1) whether in-hospital insomnia independently predicts long-term pain after burn injury and (2) whether in-hospital pain predicts future insomnia symptoms. We analyzed data on 333 subjects hospitalized for major burn injury (72.7% male; mean age=41.1+/-14.5years) who were participating in the multi-site, Burn Model System project. Subjects completed measures of health, function (SF-36), and psychological distress (Brief Symptom Inventory) while in hospital, at 6, 12, and 24months after discharge. Participants were categorized as either having or not having sleep onset insomnia at discharge. Linear mixed effects analyses revealed that persons reporting insomnia at discharge (40.5%) had significantly decreased improvement in pain and increased pain severity during long-term follow-up (p<0.001). More severe pain during the week preceding hospital discharge, time from injury, lack of college education and older age also contributed independent effects on chronic pain (p<0.05). In a reciprocal model (N=299), more severe pain during the week preceding discharge predicted increased rates of long-term sleep onset insomnia. In-hospital insomnia and pre-burn mental health symptoms were also highly significant predictors of insomnia. This study provides support for a long-term, prospective and reciprocal interaction between insomnia and pain. Future work should ascertain whether treatment of insomnia and pain during acute injury can prevent or minimize chronic pain.

UI  - 18350566
TI  - Next-day cognition, psychomotor function, and driving-related skills following nighttime administration of eszopiclone.
AB  - Nighttime administration of 3 mg eszopiclone improved objective and subjective sleep measures in patients with insomnia (and subjective sleep measures in healthy patients) and did not impair next-day driving-related skills or measures of cognition in either study population relative to placebo.

UI  - 18344728
TI  - Effects of 2-week treatment with temazepam and diphenhydramine in elderly insomniacs: a randomized, placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - A randomized, controlled, crossover clinical study compared 14-night treatment with 15 mg temazepam, 50 mg diphenhydramine, and placebo in elderly individuals with insomnia (mean age, 73.9 years; range, 70-89 years). Primary outcome measures were subjective assessments of sleep recorded on sleep diaries. Secondary measures were the morning-after psychomotor impairment, using the digit symbol substitution task and the manual tracking task, and the morning-after memory impairment, using a free-recall procedure. Results showed sleep improvements with 15 mg temazepam compared with placebo-sleep quality (mean score, 3.3 +/- 0.9 vs 2.9 +/- 0.8; P = 0.03), total sleep time (6.9 +/- 1.0 hours vs 6.3 +/-1.3 hours; P = 0.02), number of awakenings (1.5 +/- 1.3 vs 2.0 +/- 1.2; P < 0.001), and sleep-onset latency (25 +/- 22 minutes vs 37 +/- 25 minutes; P = 0.03). Improvements were seen with diphenhydramine treatment compared with placebo on the number of awakenings only (mean, 1.7 +/- 1.1 vs 2.0 +/- 1.2; P < 0.05). Numbers of adverse events reported were similar after all treatments, although there was 1 fall during temazepam treatment. Findings indicate that temazepam is more effective than diphenhydramine when compared with placebo at the doses tested, although this advantage is mitigated by the risk of falls associated with temazepam use. The choice of agent to use in the elderly must consider these relative benefits and risks.

UI  - 18323223
TI  - [Clinical observation of modified Suan Zao Ren decoction on insomnia of chronic hepatitis B patients].
AB  - Modified Suan Zao Ren Decoction is effective for improving sleep composition, and therefore improve the quality of sleep with few side effect. In the same time, it has the function in improving liver function, and can be used to treat chronic hepatitis B patients with insomnia.

UI  - 18320867
TI  - Climacteric symptom control after the addition of low-dose esterified conjugated estrogens to raloxifene standard doses.
AB  - The treatment that is proposed in this study can constitute a temporary alternative during the period of transition from HT to raloxifene.

UI  - 18303490
TI  - Polysomnographic study of intermittent zolpidem treatment in primary sleep maintenance insomnia.
AB  - Intermittent treatment with zolpidem in primary insomnia patients improves CAP parameters and arousals, as well as sleep duration and quality, in the absence of rebound insomnia.

UI  - 18302607
TI  - Efficacy of an insomnia intervention on fatigue, mood and quality of life in breast cancer survivors.
AB  - Globally, as the number of survivors in this population continues to grow, it is imperative that nurses continue testing interventions that may positively affect quality of life and the commonly experienced symptoms of fatigue, anxiety and depression.

UI  - 18289144
TI  - Effectiveness of mirtazapine for nausea and insomnia in cancer patients with depression.
AB  - In the present study mirtazapine rapidly improved nausea, sleep disturbance, pain and quality of life, as well as depression in cancer patients. Mirtazapine may be an effective treatment option in managing cancer patients with multiple distressing symptoms, including nausea and sleep disturbance.

UI  - 18280681
TI  - Use of clonidine in children with autism spectrum disorders.
AB  - Children with autism spectrum disorders (ASD) often exhibit sleep and behavioral disorders. Treatment of sleep disorders can be difficult in these children. Clonidine, an alpha2-adrenergic receptor agonist, has been shown to be effective in reducing impulsivity, inattention, and hyperactivity, as well as in serving as a sedative for medial procedures. An open labeled retrospective study of clonidine in treatment of insomnia, and/or hyperactivity, inattention, mood disorder, and aggressive behaviors was conducted using parent reports of sleep initiation and maintenance, as well as behaviors prior and during clonidine treatment. Clonidine was effective in reducing sleep initiation latency and night awakening, to a less degree in improving attention deficits hyperactivity, mood instability and aggressiveness in this cohort of 19 children with ASD. The side effects were largely tolerable. Further evaluation with placebo-controlled double-blind clinical trial of clonidine use in ASD will provide more insight into the clinical efficacy and safety of the medicine in ASD.

UI  - 18271228
TI  - [Randomized and controlled study on effect of acupuncture on sleep quality in the patient of primary insomnia].
AB  - Acupuncture treatment has advantages of improving somnipathy and increasing daytime functional state.

UI  - 18261024
TI  - Melatonin treatment in individuals with intellectual disability and chronic insomnia: a randomized placebo-controlled study.
AB  - Melatonin treatment improves some aspects of chronic sleep disturbance in individuals with ID.

UI  - 18257978
TI  - Post-bedtime dosing with indiplon in adults and the elderly: results from two placebo-controlled, active comparator crossover studies in healthy volunteers.
AB  - Indiplon, at doses of 10 mg in adults and 5 mg in the elderly, was not associated with next day residual sedation or impairment in simple cognitive and psychomotor tasks when administered during the night 4 h prior to awakening.

UI  - 18256066
TI  - Trazodone increases arousal threshold in obstructive sleep apnoea.
AB  - A low arousal threshold is believed to predispose to breathing instability during sleep. The present authors hypothesised that trazodone, a nonmyorelaxant sleep-promoting agent, would increase the effort-related arousal threshold in obstructive sleep apnoea (OSA) patients. In total, nine OSA patients, mean+/-sd age 49+/-9 yrs, apnoea/hypopnoea index 52+/-32 events.h(-1), were studied on 2 nights, one with trazodone at 100 mg and one with a placebo, in a double blind randomised fashion. While receiving continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP), repeated arousals were induced: 1) by increasing inspired CO(2) and 2) by stepwise decreases in CPAP level. Respiratory effort was measured with an oesophageal balloon. End-tidal CO(2 )tension (P(ET,CO(2))) was monitored with a nasal catheter. During trazodone nights, compared with placebo nights, the arousals occurred at a higher P(ET,CO(2)) level (mean+/-sd 7.30+/-0.57 versus 6.62+/-0.64 kPa (54.9+/-4.3 versus 49.8+/-4.8 mmHg), respectively). When arousals were triggered by increasing inspired CO(2) level, the maximal oesophageal pressure swing was greater (19.4+/-4.0 versus 13.1+/-4.9 cm H(2)O) and the oesophageal pressure nadir before the arousals was lower (-5.1+/-4.7 versus -0.38+/-4.2 cm H(2)O) with trazodone. When arousals were induced by stepwise CPAP drops, the maximal oesophageal pressure swings before the arousals did not differ. Trazodone at 100 mg increased the effort-related arousal threshold in response to hypercapnia in obstructive sleep apnoea patients and allowed them to tolerate higher CO(2) levels.

UI  - 18246982
TI  - Efficacy and safety of as-needed, post bedtime dosing with indiplon in insomnia patients with chronic difficulty maintaining sleep.
AB  - Patients with chronic insomnia with nocturnal awakenings achieved significant and sustained improvement in sleep parameters while utilizing an as-needed post bedtime dosing strategy with indiplon capsules. Indiplon was well-tolerated, with no self-rated, next-day residual effects.

UI  - 18246681
TI  - The short-term therapeutic effect of the three-part massotherapy for insomnia due to deficiency of both the heart and the spleen--a report of 100 cases.
AB  - The three-part massotherapy has definite therapeutic effects on insomnia due to deficiency of both the heart and the spleen, which is safe and easy to operate, and worthy of popularization.

UI  - 18220081
TI  - Long-term efficacy and safety of zolpidem extended-release 12.5 mg, administered 3 to 7 nights per week for 24 weeks, in patients with chronic primary insomnia: a 6-month, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group, multicenter study.
AB  - These findings establish the efficacy of 3 to 7 nights per week dosing of zolpidem extended-release 12.5 mg for up to 6 months. Treatment provided sustained and significant improvements in sleep onset and maintenance and also improved next-day concentration and morning sleepiness.

UI  - 18199897
TI  - Pharmacokinetics and bioavailability of the novel rivastigmine transdermal patch versus rivastigmine oral solution in healthy elderly subjects.
AB  - 

UI  - 18199895
TI  - A comparative pharmacokinetic study of recombinant human serum albumin with plasma-derived human serum albumin in patients with liver cirrhosis.
AB  - We conducted an open-label, parallel-group study of the high purity, mass-produced recombinant human serum albumin (rHSA), derived from the methylotrophic yeast Pichia pastoris, to compare pharmacokinetics and ensure bioequivalence with plasma-derived human serum albumin (pHSA) in 22 patients with liver cirrhosis. Both rHSA and pHSA groups enrolled 11 patients each, assigned according to predose serum albumin concentrations using the minimization method. Pharmacokinetic and safety profiles for 3-day repeated intravenous infusions at a daily dose of 25 g were evaluated for 8 days. Geometric mean AUC(0-168hr) (g.hr/dL) was 637.12 and 635.93 in the rHSA and pHSA groups, respectively, with a 90% confidence interval (CI) for the difference (92.9%-108.1%) lying within the bioequivalence range. The other major parameter, geometric mean C(max) (g/dL), was 4.16 and 4.19 in the rHSA and pHSA groups, respectively, with a 90% CI for the difference (92.7%-106.4%). The pHSA group presented with 3 adverse events: 1 case of insomnia, and 2 laboratory abnormalities with no serious adverse events. Results from this study show similar pharmacokinetic profiles following intravenous administration of 25g/day of rHSA and pHSA for 3 days, indicating bioequivalence.

UI  - 18182928
TI  - A randomized, controlled prospective trial of zolpidem and haloperidol for use as sleeping agents in pediatric burn patients.
AB  - Children with burn injuries often require hospital treatment where they are subjected to stimuli likely to produce sleep deprivation. Previously demonstrated sleep fragmentation and significantly reduced sleep stage 3/4 and rapid eye movement in this population led to a search for sleep-enhancing interventions. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effects of selected therapeutic interventions on sleep architecture. Forty patients with a mean (+/-SEM) age of 9.4 +/- 0.7 years, mean total burn surface area of 50.1 +/- 2.9% and full thickness burns of 43.2 +/- 3.6% were randomly assigned to one of two treatment regimens using a blinded crossover design. Continuous polysomnographic recordings were obtained for six study periods. Each patient alternately received zolpidem one week and haloperidol the next, with the first monitored night conducted without medication. Zolpidem minimally increased the proportion of 3/4 and rapid eye movement sleep (0.81 +/- 0.16 vs 0.61 +/- 0.10 hrs, P = .02) but not total sleep time (4.8 +/- 0.3 vs 4.3 +/- 0.3 hrs on control nights, P = .1). Haloperidol significantly increased total sleep (5.3 +/- 0.3 vs 4.3 +/- 0.3 hrs on control nights, P = .02) and stage 2 sleep (3.3 +/- 0.3 vs 2.4 +/- 0.2 hrs, P = .001) compared with control nights. Both drugs slightly improved average sleep and wake period duration compared with control nights. Although sleep was somewhat improved by each test drug, there were no statistically significant differences between the drugs. Additional studies are needed to identify methods for improving restorative sleep postburn.

UI  - 18182647
TI  - Melatonin for insomnia in children with autism spectrum disorders.
AB  - We describe our experience in using melatonin to treat insomnia, a common sleep concern, in children with autism spectrum disorders. One hundred seven children (2-18 years of age) with a confirmed diagnosis of autism spectrum disorders who received melatonin were identified by reviewing the electronic medical records of a single pediatrician. All parents were counseled on sleep hygiene techniques. Clinical response to melatonin, based on parental report, was categorized as (1) sleep no longer a concern, (2) improved sleep but continued parental concerns, (3) sleep continues to be a major concern, and (4) worsened sleep. The melatonin dose varied from 0.75 to 6 mg. After initiation of melatonin, parents of 27 children (25%) no longer reported sleep concerns at follow-up visits. Parents of 64 children (60%) reported improved sleep, although continued to have concerns regarding sleep. Parents of 14 children (13%) continued to report sleep problems as a major concern, with only 1 child having worse sleep after starting melatonin (1%), and 1 child having undetermined response (1%). Only 3 children had mild side-effects after starting melatonin, which included morning sleepiness and increased enuresis. There was no reported increase in seizures after starting melatonin in children with pre-existing epilepsy and no new-onset seizures. The majority of children were taking psychotropic medications. Melatonin appears to be a safe and well-tolerated treatment for insomnia in children with autism spectrum disorders. Controlled trials to determine efficacy appear warranted.

UI  - 18176336
TI  - Objective sleep in pediatric anxiety disorders and major depressive disorder.
AB  - Findings provide objective and subjective evidence of sleep disturbance in children and adolescents with anxiety disorders and replicate findings of limited objective sleep disturbance in those with MDD. Sleep problems are an important consideration when treating young people with anxiety.

UI  - 18173156
TI  - [Clinical observation on effect of electric acupuncture at Sishencong in treating insomnia].
AB  - EA at Sishencong has obvious effect on insomnia.

UI  - 18165461
TI  - Efficacy and safety of zolpidem extended release in elderly primary insomnia patients.
AB  - Zolpidem extended release 6.25 mg improved both sleep maintenance and sleep induction in elderly primary insomnia patients during three weeks of administration.
