
UI  - 24733354
TI  - Reduction of inappropriate benzodiazepine prescriptions among older adults through direct patient education: the EMPOWER cluster randomized trial.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT01148186.

UI  - 24680372
TI  - Safety and efficacy of suvorexant during 1-year treatment of insomnia with subsequent abrupt treatment discontinuation: a phase 3 randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - Merck & Co Inc.

UI  - 24469530
TI  - Impact of sleep complaints and depression outcomes among participants in the standard medical intervention and long-term exercise study of exercise and pharmacotherapy for depression.
AB  - The aim of this study was to examine the effects of exercise and sertraline on disordered sleep in patients with major depressive disorder (MDD). Methods The Standard Medical Intervention and Long-term Exercise study randomized the patients with MDD (n = 202) to one of four arms: a) supervised exercise, b) home-based exercise, c) sertraline therapy, and d) placebo pill. Sleep disturbance was assessed with three sleep-related items from the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HAM-D) before and after 4 months of treatment. The patients were followed for 12 months to assess the prognostic value of sleep disturbance on MDD relapse and recovery.Results Comparison of the active treatment and placebo groups showed no treatment differences in HAM-D sleep complaints after 4 months (p = 0.758). However, residual insomnia symptoms after treatment were strongly associated with elevated depressive symptoms assessed by the HAM-D after 4 months ( = 0.342, p < 0.0001) and MDD relapse (odds ratio, 1.55; 95% confidence interval, 1.15-2.10; p = 0.004) assessed at 1-year follow-up (16 months after randomization). Neither exercise nor sertraline was associated with greater improvements in sleep disturbance compared with the placebo controls. However, residual symptoms of insomnia after successful treatment of MDD predicted relapse, highlighting the clinical importance of addressing insomnia in patients with MDD.

UI  - 24430033
TI  - [The results of the Russian multicenter open observational non-comparative study on the efficacy and safety of valdoxan (agomelatin) in the treatment of patients with major depressive disorder and insomnia (the VIVALDI study)].
AB  - The results of the study on the efficacy and safety of the valdoxan (agomelatine) in the treatment of patients with major depressive disorder and insomnia are presented. The study included 64 patients (mean age 45.011.7 years). Agomelatine was given in dosage of 25--50 mg for 6 weeks. The following scales were used: HAMD-21, HADS, subjective sleep characteristics scale, sleep apnea screening questionnaire, the Epworth sleepiness scale. All the patients underwent night polysomnography. The use of agomelatine led to the improvement of affective symptoms on HAMD-21 and HADS from the first week of treatment. To the last visit, clinical symptoms of depression disappeared in 29 (49.5%) patients. Simultaneously, subjective sleep quality increased from 12.23.2 to 14.74.2 points on the appropriate scale and continued to improve. Polysomnography revealed the increase in the total sleep time, the time spent in stage 2, 4 and REM sleep as well as in sleep efficiency index. The sleep latency, number of awakenings and wake time decreased during sleep. The authors conclude that the use of agomelatine in standard dose reduces affective disorders and improves night sleep in patients with depressive disorder and insomnia.

UI  - 24429965
TI  - [The formation of clinical and functional remission during the treatment of non-psychotic depression with escitalopram (lenuxin)].
AB  - The results of this study showed a high frequency of clinical remission (45.26%) during therapy of 98 patients with non-psychotic depression with escitalopram (lenuxin). However, the majority of patients (81.4%) had symptomatic remission presented with persistent isolated monosymptom of insomnia, anxiety, somatic-autonomic disorders or hypochondria spectrum. The complete recovery of social functioning (functional remission) in all areas (work, communication, family) was observed in 51.16% patients. The relationship between the severity of residual symptoms and functional remission justifies the need to include clinical and subjective indicators in a modern integrative concept of remission. The high efficacy of escitalopram (lenuxin) was combined with its favorable tolerability profile.

UI  - 24313003
TI  - [Treatment with ramelteon for sleep disturbance in severely disabled children and young adults].
AB  - This preliminary study showed the efficacy and safety of ramelteon for sleep disturbance in severely disabled children and young adults. Further trials are necessary to determine optimal dosage and safety of ramelteon in children.

UI  - 24293756
TI  - Efficacy of vestipitant, a neurokinin-1 receptor antagonist, in primary insomnia.
AB  - Vestipitant improved sleep maintenance in patients with primary insomnia, with no associated next-day cognitive impairment. The effects on wake after sleep onset and total sleep time were maintained following repeated dosing.

UI  - 24187859
TI  - Efficacy of huadananshen mistura on insomnia: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, and multi-center clinical trial.
AB  - Huadananshen mistura is an effective and generally well-tolerated hypnotic medicine for the treatment of Chinese patients with insomnia.

UI  - 24055212
TI  - Efficacy and safety of rotigotine in Japanese patients with restless legs syndrome: a phase 3, multicenter, randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, parallel-group study.
AB  - Our results showed that rotigotine was effective without major safety concerns at doses of up to 3 mg/24 h in Japanese patients with RLS.

UI  - 23981403
TI  - The effect of a homeopathic complex on psychophysiological onset insomnia in males: a randomized pilot study.
AB  - Findings suggest that daily use of the homeopathic complex does have an effect over a 4-wk period on physiological and cognitive arousal at bedtime as well as on sleep onset latency in PI sufferers. Further research on the use of this complex for PI is warranted before any definitive conclusions can be drawn.

UI  - 23672055
TI  - [Study on efficacy of zaoren anshen capsules in treating senile insomnia and changes in its hemorheology].
AB  - Zaoren Anshen capsules have similar effect in treating senile insomnia with alprazolam, with less adverse reactions. They are so suitable for patients with senile insomnia that they can improve hemorheological indicators of patients with senile insomnia and have good effect in promoting circulation and removing stasis.

UI  - 23609389
TI  - Tolerability, pharmacokinetics, and pharmacodynamics of single-dose almorexant, an orexin receptor antagonist, in healthy elderly subjects.
AB  - Sleep disorders are common in the elderly population. Orexin receptor antagonism has been proposed as a new sleep-enabling approach to treat insomnia. The tolerability, pharmacokinetics, and pharmacodynamics of ascending single doses of almorexant, a dual orexin receptor antagonist, were investigated in healthy elderly male and female subjects. In this double-blind, placebo- and active-controlled study, each dose (100, 200, and 400 mg) was investigated in a separate group of 12 subjects (almorexant, placebo, and zolpidem 10 mg in an 8:2:2 ratio). Morning doses of almorexant were well tolerated. As expected for sleep-enabling compounds, somnolence and fatigue were frequently reported. Other adverse events included headache and nausea. Muscular weakness was reported at a higher incidence only with the highest almorexant dose. The pharmacokinetic profile of almorexant was characterized by a median time to the maximum concentration of 1.5 hours, quick disposition with a distribution half-life of 1.6 hours, and rapidly decreasing concentrations to approximately 20% of the maximum concentration over 8 hours, with a terminal half-life of 32 hours. Objective pharmacodynamic measures showed decreases in saccadic peak velocity and adaptive tracking performance and increases in body sway with the 400-mg dose of almorexant. Subjective assessments revealed a dose-dependent decrease in alertness. Almorexant had no effects on mood, calmness, subjective internal and external perception, and feeling high. These findings provide a solid basis to study the effects of almorexant in elderly patients with insomnia.

UI  - 23561946
TI  - Doxepin and cognitive behavioural therapy for insomnia in patients with Parkinson's disease -- a randomized study.
AB  - Doxepin and non-pharmacologic treatment substantially improved insomnia in Parkinson's disease. These potential benefits must be replicated in a full confirmatory randomized controlled trial.

UI  - 23543804
TI  - Efficacy and safety of a polyherbal sedative-hypnotic formulation NSF-3 in primary insomnia in comparison to zolpidem: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - NSF-3 is a safe and effective short-term alternative to zolpidem for primary insomnia. It remains to be explored whether the benefits are sustained and whether there is dependence liability with this formulation upon long term use.

UI  - 23508680
TI  - Persistent sleep disturbance is associated with treatment response in adolescents with depression.
AB  - Sleep disturbances were highly related to depressive state and were associated with poorer treatment response in adolescents with depression. These results provide a rationale for further exploration of sleep-related treatments for adolescents with depression. Knowledge of patient-reported persistent sleep disturbances can help clinicians to predict treatment outcomes and may direct them to augment treatment or focus on sleep-related treatment strategies.

UI  - 23448313
TI  - Exploring effective core drug patterns in primary insomnia treatment with Chinese herbal medicine: study protocol for a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - NCT01613183.

UI  - 23447917
TI  - Effect of low-dose French maritime pine bark extract on climacteric syndrome in 170 perimenopausal women: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - This study, applying a relatively low daily dose, allows identification of those climacteric symptoms which respond particularly well to supplementation with Pycnogenol.

UI  - 23400741
TI  - Population pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of gabapentin after administration of gabapentin enacarbil.
AB  - Gabapentin enacarbil (GEn) is an actively transported prodrug of gabapentin that provides sustained dose-proportional exposure to gabapentin and predictable bioavailability. Gabapentin enacarbil is approved by the US Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of moderate-to-severe primary restless legs syndrome (RLS) in adults. Using plasma gabapentin concentration data obtained after administration of GEn in 12 phase 1 to 3 GEn studies in healthy adults or patients with RLS (dose range, 300-2400 mg/d), a population pharmacokinetic (PK) model was developed by nonlinear mixed-effect modeling using NONMEM. Data were similar in subjects with and without RLS. Population PK-pharmacodynamic (PD) models were evaluated using gabapentin exposure and change from baseline in investigator- or patient-rated Clinical Global Impression of Improvement (CGI-I) or International Restless Legs Scale (IRLS) total score. Potential PK-PD models for sleep outcomes and safety parameters were also explored. The CGI-I response increased with increasing GEn dose, whereas the IRLS total score was similar at all exposures tested. Early adverse events of dizziness or somnolence/sedation were more frequent for GEn 600 mg than higher doses; however, this is confounded by the fact that all subjects received the 600-mg dose for 3 days prior to titration to higher dosages.

UI  - 23372266
TI  - Novel sublingual low-dose zolpidem tablet reduces latency to sleep onset following spontaneous middle-of-the-night awakening in insomnia in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, outpatient study.
AB  - NCT00466193: "A Study of Zolpidem Tartrate Tablet in Adult Patients with Insomnia" http://www.clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT00466193?spons=%22Transcept+Pharmaceuticals%22&spons_ex=Y&rank=2

UI  - 23291800
TI  - Treatment of paradoxical insomnia with atypical antipsychotic drugs. A comparison of olanzapine and risperidone.
AB  - Atypical anti-psychotic drugs such as olanzapine and risperidone may be beneficial options for treatment of paradoxical insomnia. Larger clinical trials with longer periods of follow-up are needed for further investigation.

UI  - 23282267
TI  - [Efficacy and safety of modified release zolpidem in patients with chronic insomnia].
AB  - these data support the efficacy, safety and acceptance of zolpidem MR administered on an "as per needed" regimen for the treatment of chronic insomnia.

UI  - 23235408
TI  - [The results of Russian multicenter open-label observational study of the efficacy and safety of elaxen (melatonin) for the treatment of disordered sleep in patients with chronic cerebral ischemia].
AB  - The results of the multicenter open-label observational study of the efficacy and safety of the Melaxen (melatonin) for the treatment of disordered sleep in patients with chronic cerebral ischemia are presented. 2062 patients were studied with the use of subjective psychometric scales: subjective sleep characteristics scale, sleep apnea screening questionnaire, Epworth sleepiness scale, hospital anxiety and depression scale. Mean age of patients was 55.79.0 years, there were 74.1% females and 25.9% males. Melaxen was given in dosage of 3 mg. before sleep for 24 days. The use of Melaxen leads to the increase of subjective sleep quality by the subjective sleep characteristics scale from 19.73.1 points to  22.73.4 points on day 14 and 22.73.4 on day 24 (differences are significant at p<0.0001). There was the decrease of the relative number of patients with frequent night awakenings, prolonged sleep latency, short night sleep, poor quality of morning awakening and multiple bothering dreams. Authors conclude that the use of Melaxen in dosage of 3 mg before sleep is effective and safe insomnia treatment in patients with chronic cerebral ischemia.

UI  - 23205513
TI  - Decreased health-related quality of life in women with breast cancer is associated with poor sleep.
AB  - This study examined the longitudinal relation between health-related quality of life (HR-QOL) and subjective and objective sleep quality in 166 women with newly diagnosed Stage-1 through Stage-3 breast cancer, who were scheduled to receive  4 cycles of adjuvant/neoadjuvant chemotherapy. HR-QOL was assessed with the Medical Outcomes Study 36-item Short Form, Physical Component Scale (PCS), and Mental Component Scale (MCS) scores; subjective sleep was assessed with the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index; and objective sleep was measured with actigraphy. Data were collected before starting chemotherapy and during the last week of Cycle 4 of chemotherapy. Patients reported poor HR-QOL and poor sleep quality before and during chemotherapy. Short sleep time and long naps were recorded at both time points. The MCS score was related to reports of poor sleep, but not to recorded sleep; worse PCS scores were associated with reports of poor sleep and less recorded naptime, suggesting sleep plays an important role in cancer patients' HR-QOL.

UI  - 23197752
TI  - Orexin receptor antagonism for treatment of insomnia: a randomized clinical trial of suvorexant.
AB  - This study provides Class I evidence that suvorexant improves sleep efficiency over 4 weeks in nonelderly adult patients with primary insomnia.

UI  - 23178661
TI  - Efficacy and safety of Wuling capsule, a single herbal formula, in Chinese subjects with insomnia: a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - Wuling capsule can improve insomnia when compared with pre-treatment for 4 weeks and be a well tolerated by all the patients at the 6 weeks of study period. However, there are no significant in the results of the variables tested when compared with placebo control. Further additional rigorous randomized clinical trials are still required.

UI  - 23115404
TI  - Efficacy of eight months of nightly zolpidem: a prospective placebo-controlled study.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT01006525; Trial Name: Safety and Efficacy of Chronic Hypnotic Use; http://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT01006525.

UI  - 23063301
TI  - A randomized placebo-controlled polysomnographic study of eszopiclone in Japanese patients with primary insomnia.
AB  - In Japanese patients with primary insomnia, eszopiclone 2mg and 3mg significantly improved PSG-determined and patient-reported sleep latency and sleep maintenance relative to placebo.

UI  - 23025837
TI  - A randomized, double-blind, double-dummy, multicenter, controlled trial on brotizolam intervention in outpatients with insomnia.
AB  - Brotizolam is effective and safe in relieving the symptoms of insomnia.

UI  - 23024438
TI  - Repeated melatonin supplementation improves sleep in hypertensive patients treated with beta-blockers: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - his study is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, identifier: NCT00238108; trial name: Melatonin Supplements for Improving Sleep in Individuals with Hypertension; URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT00238108.

UI  - 23005039
TI  - Melatonin treatment effects on adolescent students' sleep timing and sleepiness in a placebo-controlled crossover study.
AB  - During the last few decades, the incidence of sleep-onset insomnia, due to delay of circadian phase, has increased substantially among adolescents all over the world. We wanted to investigate whether a small dose of melatonin given daily, administered in the afternoon, could advance the sleep timing in teenagers. Twenty-one students, aged 14-19 yrs, with sleep-onset difficulties during school weeks were recruited. The study was a randomized, double blind, placebo (PL)-controlled crossover trial, lasting 5 wks. During the first 6 d in wks 2 and 4, the students received either PL or melatonin (1 mg) capsules between 16:30 and 18:00 h. During the first 6 d of wk 5, all students received melatonin. Wks 1 and 3 were capsule-free. In the last evening of each week and the following morning, the students produced saliva samples at home for later melatonin analysis. The samples were produced the same time each week, as late as possible in the evening and as early as possible in the morning. Both the student and one parent received automatic mobile text messages 15 min before saliva sampling times and capsule intake at agreed times. Diaries with registration of presumed sleep, subjective sleepiness during the day (Karolinska Sleepiness Scale, KSS) and times for capsule intake and saliva samplings were completed each day. Primary analysis over 5 wks gave significant results for melatonin, sleep and KSS. Post hoc analysis showed that reported sleep-onset times were advanced after melatonin school weeks compared with PL school weeks (p < .005) and that sleep length was longer (p < .05). After the last melatonin school week, the students fell asleep 68 min earlier and slept 62 min longer each night compared with the baseline week. Morning melatonin values in saliva diminished compared with PL (p < .001) and evening values increased (p < .001), indicating a possible sleep phase advance. Compared with PL school weeks, the students reported less wake up (p < .05), less school daytime sleepiness (p < .05) and increased evening sleepiness (p < .005) during melatonin weeks. We conclude that a small dose of melatonin given daily, administered in the afternoon, could advance the sleep timing and make the students more alert during school days even if they continued their often irregular sleep habits during weekends.

UI  - 22981051
TI  - A comparison between acupuncture versus zolpidem in the treatment of primary insomnia.
AB  - Acupuncture might be used as an alternative strategy compared to zolpidem for the treatment of primary insomnia.

UI  - 22963894
TI  - A double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial of adjunctive ramelteon for the treatment of insomnia and mood stability in patients with euthymic bipolar disorder.
AB  - The present study shows that ramelteon was effective in maintaining stability for individuals with bipolar disorder. Patients treated with ramelteon were approximately half as likely to relapse as patients treated with placebo throughout the 24-week treatment period.

UI  - 22920723
TI  - Efficacy of porcine placental extract on climacteric symptoms in peri- and postmenopausal women.
AB  - Oral PPE treatment is another possible option for treating perimenopausal and postmenopausal women with climacteric symptoms.

UI  - 22888075
TI  - Prostate cancer treatments and their side effects are associated with increased insomnia.
AB  - Androgen deprivation therapy is associated with an increased risk for insomnia, and side effects of ADT and RTH appear to play a role in the development of insomnia in this population.

UI  - 22851805
TI  - The orexin antagonist SB-649868 promotes and maintains sleep in men with primary insomnia.
AB  - The data demonstrate the sleep-promoting properties of the orexin antagonist SB-649868 in male patients with insomnia.

UI  - 22834326
TI  - [Agonist of V2 vasopressin receptor reduces depressive disorders in post-stroke patients].
AB  - Poststroke depression is one of the common psychiatric complications after stroke. Thus, the research of new ways for treatment depressed mood after stroke is actual. The previous researches revealed vasopressin to be effective in patients with memory, speech and motor function disorders after stroke. The purpose of the study was to investigate influence of vasopressin on depression after stroke. Fourteen patients with affective disorders have been treated with subendocrine doses of 1-desamino-8-D-arginin-vasopressin (DDAVP) daily by intranasal application during 1,5-2 months. Vasopressin was effective in correcting both apatoadinamic and anxious depression. Treatment effect was durable, lasts for 0,5-1 year after the first course of therapy. The results of this pilot study demonstrate perspective of using selective agonist of vasopressin V2 receptors, DDAVP, in therapy of post-stroke depression.

UI  - 22616853
TI  - Controlled-release melatonin, singly and combined with cognitive behavioural therapy, for persistent insomnia in children with autism spectrum disorders: a randomized placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - Although melatonin and cognitive-behavioural therapy have shown efficacy in treating sleep disorders in children with autism spectrum disorders, little is known about their relative or combined efficacy. One hundred and sixty children with autism spectrum disorders, aged 4-10 years, suffering from sleep onset insomnia and impaired sleep maintenance, were assigned randomly to either (1) combination of controlled-release melatonin and cognitive-behavioural therapy; (2) controlled-release melatonin; (3) four sessions of cognitive-behavioural therapy; or (4) placebo drug treatment condition for 12 weeks in a 1 : 1 : 1 : 1 ratio. Children were studied at baseline and after 12 weeks of treatment. Treatment response was assessed with 1-week actigraphic monitoring, sleep diary and sleep questionnaire. Main outcome measures, derived actigraphically, were sleep latency, total sleep time, wake after sleep onset and number of awakenings. The active treatment groups all resulted in improvements across all outcome measures, with moderate-to-large effect sizes from baseline to a 12-week assessment. Melatonin treatment was mainly effective in reducing insomnia symptoms, while cognitive-behavioural therapy had a light positive impact mainly on sleep latency, suggesting that some behavioural aspects might play a role in determining initial insomnia. The combination treatment group showed a trend to outperform other active treatment groups, with fewer dropouts and a greater proportion of treatment responders achieving clinically significant changes (63.38% normative sleep efficiency criterion of >85% and 84.62%, sleep onset latency <30 min). This study demonstrates that adding behavioural intervention to melatonin treatment seems to result in a better treatment response, at least in the short term.

UI  - 22549286
TI  - Orexin receptor antagonism, a new sleep-enabling paradigm: a proof-of-concept clinical trial.
AB  - The orexin system is a key regulator of sleep and wakefulness. In a multicenter, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, two-way crossover study, 161 primary insomnia patients received either the dual orexin receptor antagonist almorexant, at 400, 200, 100, or 50 mg in consecutive stages, or placebo on treatment nights at 1-week intervals. The primary end point was sleep efficiency (SE) measured by polysomnography; secondary end points were objective latency to persistent sleep (LPS), wake after sleep onset (WASO), safety, and tolerability. Dose-dependent almorexant effects were observed on SE , LPS , and WASO . SE improved significantly after almorexant 400 mg vs. placebo (mean treatment effect 14.4%; P < 0.001). LPS (18 min (P = 0.02)) and WASO (54 min (P < 0.001)) decreased significantly at 400 mg vs. placebo. Adverse-event incidence was dose-related. Almorexant consistently and dose-dependently improved sleep variables. The orexin system may offer a new treatment approach for primary insomnia.

UI  - 22465450
TI  - A WASO sub-group analysis of a 6-month study of eszopiclone 3 mg.
AB  - As illustrated in this analysis, a significant proportion of chronic insomnia patients in efficacy trials that select on the basis of sleep onset latency and total sleep time criteria may have normative-range WASO. However, even in the subgroup with minimal WASO there was a significant sleep maintenance effect. The absence of any sleep maintenance effect in a drug trial may reflect the inclusion of relatively many insomnia patients with no baseline WASO abnormality. However, treatments with therapeutic effects on sleep maintenance, can still demonstrate improvement in sleep maintenance, even in a population not selected for this type of sleep problem, if adequately powered. Future clinical trials intending to examine sleep maintenance should employ WASO selection criteria that would ensure sufficient power to detect a sleep maintenance effect. Drug-placebo difference increased as a function of baseline WASO severity, suggesting that eszopiclone's clinical effectiveness for insomnia may be enhanced in patients with more severe sleep maintenance symptoms.

UI  - 22433978
TI  - Effect of escitalopram on insomnia symptoms and subjective sleep quality in healthy perimenopausal and postmenopausal women with hot flashes: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Among healthy perimenopausal and postmenopausal women with hot flashes, escitalopram at 10 to 20 mg/day compared with placebo reduced insomnia symptoms and improved subjective sleep quality at 8 weeks of follow-up.

UI  - 22424859
TI  - Pregabalin increases slow-wave sleep and may improve attention in patients with partial epilepsy and insomnia.
AB  - Concurrent treatment with pregabalin improves sleep depth in patients with insomnia and epilepsy and improves daytime attention.

UI  - 22348451
TI  - Melatonin pharmacokinetics following two different oral surge-sustained release doses in older adults.
AB  - Melatonin is increasingly used for the treatment of sleep disorders. Surge-sustained formulations consisting of combined immediate release and controlled release dosing may mimic the endogenous melatonin physiologic profile. However, relatively little is known about the pharmacokinetic properties of low-dose (<0.5mg) and high-dose (>2mg) melatonin in a combined immediate release/controlled release dose, especially in older adults who may also exhibit altered melatonin disposition. To assess this, we conducted a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of low-dose (0.4mg) and high-dose (4.0mg) melatonin (25% immediate release+75% controlled release) in 27 older adults with insomnia complaints and low endogenous melatonin levels to determine whether melatonin pharmacokinetic properties differ between these two doses. The time to maximum level (1.3hrs versus 1.5hrs), elimination half-life (1.8hrs versus 2.1hrs), and apparent total clearance (379L/hr versus 478L/hr) did not differ significantly between the low- and high-dose arms, respectively. The maximum concentration was 40593pg/mL for the low-dose arm and 3999700pg/mL for the high-dose arm, both of which are substantially higher than physiologic melatonin levels for this age group. In addition, subjects in the high-dose arm maintained melatonin levels >50pg/mL for an average of 10hrs, which could result in elevated melatonin levels beyond the typical sleep period. Renal and liver function parameters remained stable after 6wks of treatment. The linear pharmacokinetic behavior of melatonin observed in the elderly can form the basis for future studies exploring a wider range of dosing scenarios to establish exposure-response relationships for melatonin-mediated sleep outcomes.

UI  - 22342027
TI  - Effectiveness of a cognitive behavioral self-help program for patients with primary insomnia in general practice - a pilot study.
AB  - This study supports the use of a cognitive-behavioral SHP on primary insomnia in the setting of a general practice and should be investigated in more detail. Also, regular appointments and the utilization of sleep logs seem to have a positive influence on sleep disorders.

UI  - 22334811
TI  - Objective vs. subjective measurements of sleep in depressed insomniacs: first night effect or reverse first night effect?
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT00247624.

UI  - 22250617
TI  - Is melatonin an adjunctive stabilizer?
AB  - 

UI  - 22240858
TI  - Low-dose glucocorticoid therapy complements the pituitary-adrenocortical system and reduces anxiety and insomnia in myasthenia gravis patients.
AB  - Myasthenia gravis (MG) is an autoimmune disorder generally mediated by antibodies against the acetylcholine receptors of the skeletal muscles. Depending on the disease burden, MG patients may experience chronic dysregulation of both the hormonal stress axis and the immune system, consequently, aggravating the disease itself but also leading to secondary psychopathological abnormalities. A long-term clinical course requires long-term glucocorticoid (GC) therapy, which may change the psychological state by affecting the pituitary-adrenocortical system in MG patients. In this study, we investigated the function of the pituitary-adrenocortical system in MG patients who were treated with prednisolone (PSL) and evaluated their quality of life by using the Medical Outcomes Study 36-item Short-Form Health Survey and the 28-item general health questionnaire (GHQ-28). ACTH and cortisol levels in the plasma of patients who were treated with PSL (PSL[+] group, n = 18) were lower than those in the plasma of patients who were treated without PSL (PSL[-] group, n = 29; P < 0.05 and P < 0.01, respectively). In the PSL(+) group, we confirmed that cortisol levels negatively correlated with daily PSL dosages (P < 0.05). The anxiety and depression scores from the GHQ-28 in the PSL(+) group were lower than those in the PSL(-) group (P < 0.05, respectively). There was no significant correlation between cortisol levels and corticotropin levels in plasma of the PSL(-) group. However, we confirmed that corticotropin levels positively correlated with cortisol levels in plasma (P < 0.01) and negatively correlated with anxiety/insomnia scores from the GHQ-28 (P < 0.05) in the PSL(+) group. In conclusion, low-dose GC treatment complemented the pituitary-adrenocortical system and improved the psychological state in MG patients.

UI  - 22237311
TI  - Differential effects of a dual orexin receptor antagonist (SB-649868) and zolpidem on sleep initiation and consolidation, SWS, REM sleep, and EEG power spectra in a model of situational insomnia.
AB  - Orexins have a role in sleep regulation, and orexin receptor antagonists are under development for the treatment of insomnia. We conducted a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, four-period crossover study to investigate the effect of single doses of the dual orexin receptor antagonist SB-649868 (10 or 30 mg) and a positive control zolpidem (10 mg), an allosteric modulator of GABA(A) receptors. Objective and subjective sleep parameters and next-day performance were assessed in 51 healthy male volunteers in a traffic noise model of situational insomnia. Compared with placebo, SB-649868 10 and 30 mg increased total sleep time (TST) by 17 and 31 min (p<0.001), whereas after zolpidem TST was increased by 11.0 min (p=0.012). Wake after sleep onset was reduced significantly by 14.7 min for the SB-6489698 30 mg dose (p<0.001). Latency to persistent sleep was significantly reduced after both doses of SB-6489698 (p=0.003), but not after zolpidem. Slow wave sleep (SWS) and electroencephalogram (EEG) power spectra in non-REM sleep were not affected by either dose of SB-640868, whereas SWS (p< 0.001) and low delta activity (<=1.0 Hz) were increased, and 2.25-11.0 Hz activity decreased after zolpidem. REM sleep duration was increased after SB-649868 30 mg (p=0.002) and reduced after zolpidem (p=0.049). Latency to REM sleep was reduced by 20.1 (p=0.034) and 34.0 min (p<0.001) after 10 and 30 mg of SB-649868. Sleep-onset REM episodes were observed. SB-649868 was well tolerated. This dual orexin receptor antagonist exerts hypnotic activity, with effects on sleep structure and the EEG that are different from those of zolpidem.

UI  - 22197474
TI  - Efficacy and safety of doxepin 6 mg in a four-week outpatient trial of elderly adults with chronic primary insomnia.
AB  - In elderly adults with insomnia, DXP 6 mg produced significant improvements in sleep maintenance, sleep duration, and sleep quality endpoints that were sustained throughout the trial. These data suggest that DXP 6 mg is effective for treating sleep maintenance insomnia and is well-tolerated in elderly adults with chronic primary insomnia.

UI  - 22131601
TI  - MSLT in primary insomnia: stability and relation to nocturnal sleep.
AB  - These data support the hypothesis that some insomniacs show a reliable disorder of hyperarousal with increased wake drive both at night and during the day.

UI  - 22097346
TI  - [Clinical study on intervention of spleen-restoring decoction integrating with dormancy hygiene education on subhealthy insomnia of deficiency of both heart and spleen pattern].
AB  - Both the intervention of spleen-restoring decoction integrating with dormancy hygiene education and spleen-restoring decoction had obvious clinical efficacy on treating subhealthy insomnia of deficiency of both the heart and spleen pattern, and had high compliance and safety. The intervention of spleen-restoring decoction integrating with dormancy hygiene education showed no better clinical efficacy than spleen-restoring decoction did.

UI  - 22057018
TI  - EEG spectral power density profiles during NREM sleep for gaboxadol and zolpidem in patients with primary insomnia.
AB  - There is significant interest in the functional significance and the therapeutic value of slow-wave sleep (SWS)-enhancing drugs. A prerequisite for studies of the functional differences is characterization of the electroencephalography (EEG) spectra following treatment in relevant patients. We evaluate for the first time gaboxadol and zolpidem treatments in insomniac patients using power spectra analysis. We carried out two randomized, double-blind, crossover studies. Study 1, 38 patients received gaboxadol 10 mg and 20 mg and zolpidem 10 mg; study 2, 23 patients received gaboxadol 5 mg and 15 mg. Treatments were administered during two nights and compared with placebo. Gaboxadol 10, 15 and 20 mg enhanced slow-wave activity (SWA) and theta power. In 1 Hz bins gaboxadol 10 and 20 mg enhanced power up to 9 Hz. In study 2, 15 mg gaboxadol showed a similar effect pattern. Zolpidem suppressed theta and alpha power, and increased sigma power, with no effect on SWA. In the 1 Hz bins zolpidem suppressed power between 5-10 Hz. Gaboxadol dose-dependently increased SWA and theta power in insomniac patients. In contrast, zolpidem did not affect SWA, reduced theta and alpha activity and enhanced sigma power. EEG spectral power differences may be consequences of the different mechanisms of action for zolpidem and the SWS-enhancing agent, gaboxadol.

UI  - 22004689
TI  - Twelve months of nightly zolpidem does not lead to rebound insomnia or withdrawal symptoms: a prospective placebo-controlled study.
AB  - Rebound insomnia, worsened sleep when discontinuing use of a hypnotic, is reported in some short-term studies. No study has prospectively assessed, using patient reports or nocturnal polysomnography (NPSG), the likelihood of rebound insomnia with chronic hypnotic use. The objectives of this study was to assess in primary insomniacs the likelihood of experiencing rebound insomnia and a withdrawal syndrome on repeated placebo substitutions over 12 months of nightly zolpidem use. A group of 33 primary insomniacs, without psychiatric disorders or drug and alcohol abuse, 32-65 years old, 15 men and 18 women, were randomized to take zolpidem 10 mg (n = 17) or placebo (n = 16) nightly for 12 months. In probes during months 1, 4, and 12, placebo was substituted for 7 consecutive nights in both the zolpidem and placebo groups. NPSGs were collected and Tyrer Bezodiazepine Withdrawal Symptom Questionnaires were completed on the first two discontinuation nights. Rebound insomnia was not observed on the first two and the seventh discontinuation nights and its likelihood did not increase over the 12 months of nightly zolpidem use. Some individuals did show rebound insomnia, approximately 30-40% of participants, but the percentage of 'rebounders' did not differ between the placebo and zolpidem groups and did not increase across 12 months. No clinically significant withdrawal symptoms on the Tyrer were observed on the discontinuation nights over the 12 months of nightly use. Chronic nightly hypnotic use at therapeutic doses by primary insomniacs does not lead to rebound insomnia or withdrawal symptoms.

UI  - 22003345
TI  - EEG power spectra response to a 4-h phase advance and gaboxadol treatment in 822 men and women.
AB  - www.clinicaltrials.gov, study identifier: NCT00102167.

UI  - 22002961
TI  - Enhanced slow wave sleep and improved sleep maintenance after gaboxadol administration during seven nights of exposure to a traffic noise model of transient insomnia.
AB  - Slow wave sleep (SWS) has been reported to correlate with sleep maintenance, but whether pharmacological enhancement of SWS also leads to improved sleep maintenance is not known. Here we evaluate the time-course of the effects of gaboxadol, an extra-synaptic gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) agonist, on SWS, sleep maintenance, and other sleep measures in a traffic noise model of transient insomnia. After a placebo run-in, 101 healthy subjects (20-78y) were randomized to gaboxadol (n=50; 15mg in subjects <65y and 10mg in subjects 65y) or placebo (n=51) for 7 nights (N1-N7). The model caused some disruption of sleep initiation and maintenance, with greatest effects on N1. Compared with placebo, gaboxadol increased SWS and slow wave activity throughout N1 to N7 (p<0.05). Gaboxadol reduced latency to persistent sleep overall (N1-N7) by 4.5min and on N1 by 11min (both p<0.05). Gaboxadol increased total sleep time (TST) overall by 16min (p<0.001) and on N1 by 38min (p<0.0001). Under gaboxadol, wakefulness after sleep onset was reduced by 11min overall (p<0.01) and by 29min on N1 (p<0.0001), and poly-somnographic awakenings were reduced on N1 (p<0.05). Gaboxadol reduced self-reported sleep onset latency overall and on N1 (both p<0.05) and increased self-reported TST overall (p<0.05) and on N1 (p<0.01). Subjective sleep quality improved overall (p<0.01) and on N1 (p<0.0001). Increases in SWS correlated with objective and subjective measures of sleep maintenance and subjective sleep quality under placebo and gaboxadol (p<0.05). Gaboxadol enhanced SWS and reduced the disruptive effects of noise on sleep initiation and maintenance.

UI  - 21993580
TI  - A randomized, controlled pilot trial of hormone therapy for menopausal insomnia.
AB  - Insomnia is a frequent climacteric symptom. This pilot, double-blind, randomized placebo-controlled trial compared estradiol associated with trimegestone or placebo in 12 women with perimenopausal insomnia. The Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI) was administered, and polysomnography was performed at baseline and after 28 days. Sleep efficiency and median score of the PSQI improved significantly in the hormone therapy group (HT) (p=0.041 and p=0.027, respectively) and not in placebo group. Perimenopausal insomnia improved after short-term HT.

UI  - 21966075
TI  - Efficacy and safety of doxepin 3 and 6 mg in a 35-day sleep laboratory trial in adults with chronic primary insomnia.
AB  - Five weeks of nightly administration of DXP 3 mg and 6 mg to adults with chronic primary insomnia resulted in significant and sustained improvements in sleep maintenance and early morning awakenings (with the exception of SE in the final quarter of the night on N29 for 3 mg [P=0.0691]). These sleep improvements were not accompanied by next-day residual effects or followed by rebound insomnia or withdrawal effects upon discontinuation. These findings confirm the unique profile of sleep maintenance efficacy and safety of DXP observed in prior studies.

UI  - 21955196
TI  - Efficacy and tolerability of ramelteon in a double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover study in Japanese patients with chronic primary insomnia.
AB  - The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of ramelteon 4, 8, 16 or 32 mg and placebo in Japanese patients with chronic insomnia using a randomized, double-blind, five-period crossover design. A total of 65 Japanese patients with chronic primary insomnia received ramelteon or placebo for two nights each in sleep laboratories. Changes in sleep parameters were assessed objectively by polysomnography and subjectively by postsleep questionnaires. Safety and tolerability was evaluated by assessment of the occurrence of adverse events, next-day residual effects and laboratory and ECG investigations. Ramelteon 8 and 32 mg significantly shortened the mean latency to persistent sleep in comparison with placebo, and there was a statistically significant trend for linear dose-response for this sleep parameter. Overall changes in sleep architecture were modest (<3% changes vs placebo), with increases in stage 1 and decreases in stage 3/4. Ramelteon was well tolerated, the most common adverse effect being somnolence, which was similar to placebo at doses up to 8 mg, but increased with higher doses. Next-day residual effects occurred no more frequently with ramelteon at any dose than with placebo. When compared with sleep latency data from a similarly-designed US study, there was no evidence of any ethnic differences in the efficacy of ramelteon between Japanese and US patients. Overall, ramelteon 8 mg showed the most favorable balance between sleep-promoting effects and tolerability. The unique efficacy profile of ramelteon, promoting sleep initiation without affecting other sleep parameters, may be due to its circadian shifting effect.

UI  - 21939549
TI  - Preliminary examination of the efficacy and safety of a standardized chamomile extract for chronic primary insomnia: a randomized placebo-controlled pilot study.
AB  - Chamomile could provide modest benefits of daytime functioning and mixed benefits on sleep diary measures relative to placebo in adults with chronic primary insomnia. However, further studies in select insomnia patients would be needed to investigate these conclusions.

UI  - 21925941
TI  - Use of a post-sleep questionnaire-interactive voice response system (PSQ-IVRS) to evaluate the subjective sleep effects of ramelteon in adults with chronic insomnia.
AB  - Use of ramelteon 8 mg in an at-home setting did not demonstrate statistically significant improvements in subjective sleep latency compared with placebo, when measured by PSQ-IVRS.

UI  - 21887807
TI  - The effect of herbal extract (EstroG-100) on pre-, peri- and post-menopausal women: a randomized double-blind, placebo-controlled study.
AB  - This clinical research study was designed to evaluate the efficacy of a new herbal product, EstroG-100, containing a mixture of standardized extracts of Cynanchum wilfordii, Phlomis umbrosa and Angelica gigas, on menopausal symptoms. This randomized double-blind, placebo-controlled trial was performed for 12 weeks with 64 pre-, peri- and postmenopausal White Hispanic, White non-Hispanic and African American women who were randomly allocated to either the EstroG-100 group (n = 31) or the placebo group (n = 33). Primary end-points were the mean change in scores of the Kupperman menopause index (KMI) that evaluates 11 symptoms, and the mean change in scores of vaginal dryness. The mean KMI score was significantly reduced in the EstroG-100 group from 29.5  7.4 at baseline to 11.3  5.8 (p < 0.01) compared with change of the placebo group (29.2  6.6 at baseline vs 23.7  7.7 at week 12). The constituting symptoms of vasomotor, paresthesia, insomnia, nervousness, melancholia, vertigo, fatigue and rheumatic pain were significantly improved in the EstroG-100 group in comparison with the placebo group (p < 0.05). Statistically significant improvement in vaginal dryness in the EstroG-100 group was also observed compared with that of the placebo group (p < 0.05). In conclusion, EstroG-100 significantly improved the menopausal symptoms of pre-, peri- and post-menopausal women without weight gain or any serious side effects.

UI  - 21775910
TI  - Effect of valerian on sleep quality in postmenopausal women: a randomized placebo-controlled clinical trial.
AB  - Valerian improves the quality of sleep in women with menopause who are experiencing insomnia. Findings from this study add support to the reported effectiveness of valerian in the clinical management of insomnia.

UI  - 21723905
TI  - Patients with insomnia and subthreshold depression show marked worsening of insomnia after discontinuation of sleep promoting medication.
AB  - Patients with subthreshold depression, even if the depressive symptoms do not fulfill the time criteria for depressive episode, show marked worsening of insomnia after discontinuation of sleep promoting medication.

UI  - 21681607
TI  - Modeling sleep data for a new drug in development using markov mixed-effects models.
AB  - The proposed accelerated model-building strategy resulted in a model well describing sleep patterns of insomnia patients with and without treatments.

UI  - 21640548
TI  - A Phase II dose titration study of thalidomide for cancer-associated anorexia.
AB  - Thalidomide reduced multiple symptoms commonly associated with cancer-related anorexia and improved QOL. Our findings confirmed and validated a previously published single-arm trial. A recent randomized trial demonstrated greater benefits when thalidomide is used combined with other agents to treat cancer-associated anorexia and cachexia. Thalidomide helped cancer-associated anorexia in most patients. It also improved insomnia and QOL in advanced cancer.

UI  - 21623982
TI  - Cognitive, psychomotor and polysomnographic effects of trazodone in primary insomniacs.
AB  - Trazodone is prescribed widely as a sleep aid, although it is indicated for depression, not insomnia. Its daytime cognitive and psychomotor effects have not been investigated systematically in insomniacs. The primary goal of this study was to quantify, in primary insomniacs, the hypnotic efficacy of trazodone and subsequent daytime impairments. Sixteen primary insomniacs (mean age 44 years) participated, with insomnia confirmed by overnight polysomnography (sleep efficiency  85%). Trazodone 50 mg was administered to participants 30 min before bedtime for 7 days in a 3-week, within-subjects, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled design. Subjective effects, equilibrium (anterior/posterior body sway), short-term memory, verbal learning, simulated driving and muscle endurance were assessed the morning after days 1 and 7 of drug administration. Sleep was evaluated with overnight polysomnography and modified Multiple Sleep Latency Tests (MSLT) on days 1 and 7. Trazodone produced small but significant impairments of short-term memory, verbal learning, equilibrium and arm muscle endurance across time-points. Relative to placebo across test days, trazodone was associated with fewer night-time awakenings, minutes of Stage 1 sleep and self-reports of difficulty sleeping. On day 7 only, slow wave sleep was greater and objective measures of daytime sleepiness lower with trazodone than with placebo. Although trazodone is efficacious for sleep maintenance difficulties, its associated cognitive and motor impairments may provide a modest caveat to health-care providers.

UI  - 21601519
TI  - Dissection of the factors driving the placebo effect in hypnotic treatment of depressed insomniacs.
AB  - Factors that have been associated with the "placebo effect" are operating in hypnotic clinical trials. However, the role of each factor differs depending upon which self-reported variable is being considered. The findings have implications for clinical trial design in insomnia.

UI  - 21593661
TI  - A randomized cross-over study to compare raltegravir and efavirenz (SWITCH-ER study).
AB  - Half of patients previously on a stable EFV preferred to switch to RAL, after double-blind exposure to RAL for 2 weeks. Substitution of EFV by RAL significantly impacted on lipid levels, stress, and anxiety scores.

UI  - 21570345
TI  - Night-to-night variability of sleep latency significantly predicts the magnitude of subsequent change in sleep latency during placebo administration.
AB  - The importance of night-to-night variability of sSL in sleep assessment is highlighted. Excluding patients with high variability of lead-in sSL should be considered in clinical studies evaluating an effect on sleep onset, especially in the early stages of clinical development.

UI  - 21457679
TI  - Brief behavioral therapy for refractory insomnia in residual depression: an assessor-blind, randomized controlled trial.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00610259.

UI  - 21399726
TI  - The use of Valeriana officinalis (Valerian) in improving sleep in patients who are undergoing treatment for cancer: a phase III randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind study (NCCTG Trial, N01C5).
AB  - Sleep disorders are a substantial problem for cancer survivors, with prevalence estimates ranging from 23% to 61%. Although numerous prescription hypnotics are available, few are approved for long-term use or have demonstrated benefit in this circumstance. Hypnotics may have unwanted side effects and are costly, and cancer survivors often wish to avoid prescription drugs. New options with limited side effects are needed. The purpose of this trial was to evaluate the efficacy of a Valerian officinalis supplement for sleep in people with cancer who were undergoing cancer treatment. Participants were randomized to receive 450 mg of valerian-or placebo orally 1 hour before bedtime for 8 weeks. The primary end point was area under the curve (AUC) of the overall Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI). Secondary outcomes included the Functional Outcomes of Sleep Questionnaire, the Brief Fatigue Inventory (BFI), and the Profile of Mood States (POMS). Toxicity was evaluated with both self-reported numeric analogue scale questions and the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 3.0. Questionnaires were completed at baseline and at 4 and 8 weeks. A total of 227 patients were randomized into this study between March 19, 2004, and March 9, 2007, with 119 being evaluable for the primary end point. The AUC over the 8 weeks for valerian was 51.4 (SD = 16), while that for placebo was 49.7 (SD = 15), with a P value of 0.6957. A supplemental, exploratory analysis revealed that several fatigue end points, as measured by the BFI and POMS, were significantly better for those taking valerian over placebo. Participants also reported less trouble with sleep and less drowsiness on valerian than placebo. There were no significant differences in toxicities as measured by self-report or the CTCAE except for mild alkaline phosphatase increases, which were slightly more common in the placebo group. This study failed to provide data to support the hypothesis that valerian, 450 mg, at bedtime could improve sleep as measured by the PSQI. However, exploratory analyses revealed improvement in some secondary outcomes, such as fatigue. Further research with valerian exploring physiologic effects in oncology symptom management may be warranted.

UI  - 21397868
TI  - Mindfulness-based stress reduction versus pharmacotherapy for chronic primary insomnia: a randomized controlled clinical trial.
AB  - Between baseline and eight weeks, sleep onset latency (SOL) measured by actigraphy decreased 8.9 minutes in the MBSR arm (P < .05). Large, significant improvements were found on the ISI, PSQI, and diary-measured total sleep time, SOL, and sleep efficiency (P < .01, all) from baseline to five-month follow-up in the MBSR arm. Changes of comparable magnitude were found in the PCT arm. Twenty-seven of 30 patients completed their assigned treatment. This study provides initial evidence for the efficacy of MBSR as a viable treatment for chronic insomnia as measured by sleep diary, actigraphy, well-validated sleep scales, and measures of remission and clinical recovery.

UI  - 21392474
TI  - A double-blind, randomized, comparative study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of zaleplon versus zolpidem in shortening sleep latency in primary insomnia.
AB  - There was no significant difference between zaleplon and zolpidem in the efficacy of reducing sleep latency or adverse effects. A large pharmacovigilance study is needed before concluding that either zolpidem or zaleplon is free from next-day residual effects.

UI  - 21367352
TI  - Eszopiclone for the treatment of posttraumatic stress disorder and associated insomnia: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00120250.

UI  - 21340475
TI  - Evaluation of sleep, puberty and mental health in children with long-term melatonin treatment for chronic idiopathic childhood sleep onset insomnia.
AB  - This follow-up study demonstrates that melatonin treatment in children can be sustained over a long period of time without substantial deviation of the development of children with respect to sleep quality, puberty development and mental health scores, as compared with the general Dutch population.

UI  - 21306209
TI  - Efficacy and safety of ramelteon in Japanese adults with chronic insomnia: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study.
AB  - This randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study assessed the efficacy and safety of ramelteon 4 and 8 mg in Japanese adults with chronic insomnia. A secondary objective was to evaluate efficacy and safety when doses were uptitrated from placebo, ramelteon 4 and 8 mg to 4, 8 and 16 mg, respectively. Patient-reported sleep data were collected using sleep diaries. There was no statistically significant difference between ramelteon and placebo in the change in subjective sleep latency (sSL) in the full analysis set (n = 1130). Significant improvement was observed in the change in subjective total sleep time with ramelteon 8 mg at week 1. In post hoc analyses, ramelteon 8 mg reduced sSL in individuals with smaller fluctuations (within 30 min) of sSL at baseline, in those with a shorter (<1 year) history of insomnia and in individuals who had not used benzodiazepines. Ramelteon up to 16 mg nightly was safe and well tolerated.

UI  - 21296508
TI  - Sleep disturbance and the effects of extended-release zolpidem during cannabis withdrawal.
AB  - These data extend prior research that indicates abrupt abstinence from cannabis can lead to clinically significant sleep disruption in daily users. The findings also indicate that sleep disruption associated with cannabis withdrawal can be attenuated by zolpidem, suggesting that hypnotic medications might be useful adjunct pharmacotherapies in the treatment of cannabis use disorders.

UI  - 21286241
TI  - Twelve months of nightly zolpidem does not lead to dose escalation: a prospective placebo-controlled study.
AB  - Zolpidem was preferred to placebo, but its self-administration did not increase with 12 months of use. Chronic hypnotic use by primary insomniacs does not lead to dose escalation.

UI  - 21277255
TI  - Long-term safety and efficacy of ramelteon in Japanese patients with chronic insomnia.
AB  - Ramelteon was well tolerated in adult Japanese patients with chronic insomnia and did not cause deterioration of efficacy, residual effects, rebound insomnia, withdrawal symptoms, or dependence after 24 weeks' treatment.

UI  - 21256803
TI  - Evaluation of subjective efficacy and safety of ramelteon in Japanese subjects with chronic insomnia.
AB  - In Japanese adults with chronic insomnia, ramelteon 8 mg significantly reduced patient-reported sleep latency, increased total sleep time and improved sleep quality after 1 week of treatment. Ramelteon was generally well tolerated with no rebound insomnia.

UI  - 21246844
TI  - [Effect of acupuncture treatment of relieving depression and regulating mind on insomnia accompanied with depressive disorders].
AB  - Acupuncture treatment of relieving depression and regulating mind is superior to Trazodone with oral administration for sleep quality and daytime function, with milder adverse reactions.

UI  - 21226679
TI  - The effect of melatonin, magnesium, and zinc on primary insomnia in long-term care facility residents in Italy: a double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial.
AB  - The administration of nightly melatonin, magnesium, and zinc appears to improve the quality of sleep and the quality of life in long-term care facility residents with primary insomnia.

UI  - 21208597
TI  - Improved insomnia symptoms and sleep-related next-day functioning in patients with comorbid major depressive disorder and insomnia following concomitant zolpidem extended-release 12.5 mg and escitalopram treatment: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00296179.

UI  - 21208574
TI  - A post hoc analysis of the effect of nightly administration of eszopiclone and a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor in patients with insomnia and anxious depression.
AB  - In this post hoc analysis of patients with insomnia and comorbid anxious depression derived from 2 trials, 8 weeks of eszopiclone therapy coadministered with an SSRI resulted in significantly greater improvements in insomnia, significantly greater reductions in HDRS-17 total score, and significantly greater HDRS-17 response rates compared with placebo coadministration. There were no significant differences in response rates (when insomnia items were excluded) and remission rates, as well as in anxiety/somatization scores. Further research is warranted to determine whether these modest antidepressant effects can be replicated, and anxiolytic effects demonstrated, when evaluated in a prospective manner.

UI  - 21206546
TI  - Effectiveness of ramelteon for insomnia symptoms in older adults with obstructive sleep apnea: a randomized placebo-controlled pilot study.
AB  - Ramelteon was effective in improving objective, but not subjective, sleep onset latency even in older adults who were starting APAP therapy for sleep apnea. Further research is warranted in examining the role of ramelteon in the care of older adults with insomnia symptoms and sleep apnea.

UI  - 21107748
TI  - Propofol-induced sleep: efficacy and safety in patients with refractory chronic primary insomnia.
AB  - Insomnia, defined as difficulty in falling asleep and/or staying asleep, short sleep duration, or poor quality sleep, is a common sleep disorder affecting 30-40% of adult population. We have conducted a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study to test if anesthesia is therapeutically beneficial in patients with refractory chronic primary insomnia. We have assessed the efficacy and safety of propofol-induced sleep in these patients. This study comprised of 103 patients with refractory chronic primary insomnia (including 59 non-pregnant, non-lactating women; 28-60 years) and the participants were randomized to receive either physiological saline (placebo) (n = 39) or 3.0 g/l propofol (n = 64) in a 2-h continuous intravenous infusion for five consecutive nights. The Leeds Sleep Evaluation Questionnaire was used for the subjective assessment of sleep, and polysomnography was used for the objective measurement of sleep architecture and patterns. The assessments were done prior to and at the end of the 5-day treatment and 6 months after treatment period. The adverse effects of the treatment were also recorded. A 2-h continuous intravenous infusion of 3.0 g/l propofol for five consecutive nights improved the subjective and objective assessments of sleep in 64 patients with refractory chronic primary insomnia. This improvement occurred immediately after the therapy and persisted for 6 months. No serious adverse events were noticed during the period of drug administration or 6 months after the treatment. Propofol therapy is an efficacious and safe choice for restoring normal sleep in patients with refractory chronic primary insomnia.

UI  - 21105284
TI  - Next-day residual sedative effect after nighttime administration of an over-the-counter antihistamine sleep aid, diphenhydramine, measured by positron emission tomography.
AB  - Antihistamines often are self-administered at night as over-the-counter (OTC) sleep aids, but their next-day residual sedative effect has never been evaluated using a reliable quantitative method such as positron emission tomography (PET). We performed a double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover study in which we evaluated the residual effect the next day after nighttime administration of diphenhydramine, a commonly used OTC sleep aid, in terms of brain H receptor occupancy (HRO) measured using C-doxepin-PET. We also compared the results of diphenhydramine with those of bepotastine, a second-generation antihistamine. Eight healthy adult male subjects underwent PET measurement the morning (11:00) after random oral administration of diphenhydramine (50 mg), bepotastine (10 mg), or placebo the night before (23:00). Binding potential ratios and HROs were calculated in different brain regions of interest such as the cingulate gyrus, frontotemporal cortex, and cerebellum. Subjective sleepiness and plasma drug concentration also were measured. Calculation of binding potential ratios revealed significantly lower values for diphenhydramine than for bepotastine or placebo in all regions of interest (P < 0.01). Cortical mean HRO after diphenhydramine treatment was 44.7% compared with 16.6% for bepotastine treatment (P < 0.01). Subjective sleepiness was not significantly different among the subjects treated with each test drug or the placebo. In conclusion, the next-day residual sedative effect after nighttime administration of the OTC sleep aid diphenhydramine was verified for the first time by direct PET measurement of HRO. Taking into account the possible hangover effect of OTC antihistamine sleep aids, care needs to be taken during their administration.

UI  - 21102998
TI  - Alterations in cyclic alternating pattern associated with phase advanced sleep are differentially modulated by gaboxadol and zolpidem.
AB  - disruptions in CAP produced by phase advanced sleep were significantly and differentially modulated by gaboxadol and zolpidem. The relative independence of CAP parameters from other electrophysiological measures of sleep, their high sensitivity to sleep disruption, and their strong association with subjective sleep quality suggest that CAP variables may serve as valuable endpoints in future insomnia research.

UI  - 21102997
TI  - Efficacy and Safety of Doxepin 1 mg and 3 mg in a 12-week Sleep Laboratory and Outpatient Trial of Elderly Subjects with Chronic Primary Insomnia.
AB  - DXP 1 mg and 3 mg administered nightly to elderly chronic insomnia patients for 12 weeks resulted in significant and sustained improvements in most endpoints. These improvements were not accompanied by evidence of next-day residual sedation or other significant adverse effects. DXP also demonstrated improvements in both patient- and physician-based ratings of global insomnia outcome. The efficacy of DXP at the doses used in this study is noteworthy with respect to sleep maintenance and early morning awakenings given that these are the primary sleep complaints of the elderly. This study, the longest placebo-controlled, double-blind, polysomnographic trial of nightly pharmacotherapy for insomnia in the elderly, provides the best evidence to date of the sustained efficacy and safety of an insomnia medication in older adults.

UI  - 21091391
TI  - Prolonged release melatonin in the treatment of primary insomnia: evaluation of the age cut-off for short- and long-term response.
AB  - The results demonstrate short- and long-term efficacy of PRM in insomnia patients aged 18-80 years, particularly those aged 55 and over. PRM was well-tolerated over the entire 6-month period with no rebound or withdrawal symptoms following discontinuation. Study Registry No: ClinicalTrials.gov ID: NCT00397189.

UI  - 20878849
TI  - Sleep aid use during and following breast cancer adjuvant chemotherapy.
AB  - Results reflect the natural course of CTX, recovery, and healing. Comprehensive screening for sleep-wake disturbances and sleep aid use may lead to a better understanding of the risks and benefits of pharmacologic and non-pharmacologic interventions, and ultimately lead to selection of the safest and most effective treatment.

UI  - 20872929
TI  - The effect of memantine on sleep behaviour in dementia with Lewy bodies and Parkinson's disease dementia.
AB  - Memantine decreases probable REM sleep behaviour disorder in patients with DLB and PDD. Both diagnostic groups contributed equally to the outcome.

UI  - 20861739
TI  - A randomized, placebo-controlled study of adjunctive ramelteon in ambulatory bipolar I disorder with manic symptoms and sleep disturbance.
AB  - This study evaluated the efficacy and tolerability of ramelteon in ambulatory bipolar I disorder with manic symptoms and insomnia. Twenty-one outpatients with bipolar I disorder by Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, fourth edition criteria with mild-to-moderate manic symptoms and sleep disturbance were randomized to receive either ramelteon (N=10) or placebo (N=11) in an 8-week, double-blind, fixed-dose (8 mg/day) study. Ramelteon and placebo had similar rates of reduction in ratings of symptoms of insomnia, mania, and global severity of illness. However, ramelteon was associated with improvement in a global rating of depressive symptoms. It was also well tolerated and associated with no serious adverse events. The small sample size may have limited the ability of the study to detect potentially clinically important drug-placebo differences. Further studies of ramelteon in subgroups of bipolar patients with sleep disturbance, including those with depression or euthymia, seem indicated.

UI  - 20817598
TI  - Efficacy and safety of doxepin 6 mg in a model of transient insomnia.
AB  - In this model of transient insomnia, DXP 6mg demonstrated significant improvements in sleep onset, sleep maintenance, sleep duration and sleep quality, and also appeared to reduce early morning awakenings. These data suggest that DXP 6mg may be effective and well tolerated in adults experiencing transient insomnia.

UI  - 20729765
TI  - Isoflavones decrease insomnia in postmenopause.
AB  - In postmenopausal women with insomnia, isoflavone treatment was effective in reducing insomnia symptoms, which was confirmed by increased sleep efficiency as observed by polysomnographic analysis.

UI  - 20726279
TI  - Treatment of insomnia in depressed insomniacs: effects on health-related quality of life, objective and self-reported sleep, and depression.
AB  - ESZ treatment of insomnia in depressed patients is associated with multiple favorable outcomes, including superior improvement in HRQOL, depression severity, and sleep.

UI  - 20712869
TI  - Nightly treatment of primary insomnia with prolonged release melatonin for 6 months: a randomized placebo controlled trial on age and endogenous melatonin as predictors of efficacy and safety.
AB  - The results demonstrate short- and long-term efficacy and safety of PRM in elderly insomnia patients. Low melatonin production regardless of age is not useful in predicting responses to melatonin therapy in insomnia. The age cut-off for response warrants further investigation.

UI  - 20668840
TI  - Dose finding of melatonin for chronic idiopathic childhood sleep onset insomnia: an RCT.
AB  - No dose-response relationship of melatonin with SO, SOL, and DLMO is found within a dosage range of 0.05-0.15mg/kg. The effect of exogenous melatonin on SO, SOL, and DLMO increases with an earlier circadian TOA. The soporific effects of melatonin enhance the SO shift. This study demonstrates that melatonin for treatment of CSOI in children is effective in a dosage of 0.05mg/kg given at least 1 to 2h before DLMO and before desired bedtime.

UI  - 20653397
TI  - The assessment of efficacy of Diascorea alata for menopausal symptom treatment in Taiwanese women.
AB  - Compared with placebo, Diascorea alata improves symptoms, particularly the psychological parameters in menopausal women. Safety monitoring indicated that standardized extracts of Diascorea alata were safe during daily administration over a period of 12 months.

UI  - 20589875
TI  - Treatment of insomnia in Parkinson's disease: a controlled trial of eszopiclone and placebo.
AB  - Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common neurodegenerative disease affecting up to 1 million individuals in the United States. Sleep disturbances, typically in sleep maintenance, are found in up to 88% of these individuals and are associated with a variety of poor outcomes. Despite being common and important, there are few data to guide clinical care. We conducted a 6-week, randomized, controlled trial of eszopiclone and placebo in 30 patients with PD and insomnia. Patients with other primary sleep disorders (PSG defined) were excluded. The primary outcome was total sleep time (TST), and secondary measures included wake after sleep onset (WASO), number of awakenings, and quality of sleep, among others. The groups did not significantly differ on TST, but significant differences, favoring eszopiclone, did emerge in number of awakenings (P = 0.035), quality of sleep (P = 0.018), and in physician-rated CGI improvement (P = 0.035). There was also a trend toward significance in WASO (P = 0.071). There were no significant differences between groups in measures of daytime functioning. The drug was well tolerated, with 33% of patients on eszopiclone and 27% of patients on placebo reporting adverse events. Although modest in size, this is the first controlled study of the treatment of insomnia in patients with PD. Eszopiclone did not increase TST significantly but was superior to placebo in improving quality of sleep and some measures of sleep maintenance, which is the most common sleep difficulty experienced by patients with PD. Definitive trials of the treatment of sleep disorders in this population are warranted.

UI  - 20572379
TI  - Quetiapine for primary insomnia: a double blind, randomized controlled trial.
AB  - The present study is the first study to evaluate the effect of Quetiapine in primary insomnia in a randomized controlled trial. Quetiapine at 25 mg at night did show a trend for improvement of TST and reduced SL in primary insomnia with few side effects but not reaching statistical significance. A study with a larger sample size is needed to demonstrate its efficacy.

UI  - 20537515
TI  - Effect of crocetin from Gardenia jasminoides Ellis on sleep: a pilot study.
AB  - Crocetin is a pharmacologically active carotenoid compound of Gardenia jasminoides Ellis used as a traditional herbal medicine and natural colorant. The present pilot study investigated the effect of crocetin on sleep. The clinical trial comprised a double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover trial of 21 healthy adult men with a mild sleep complaint. It included two intervention periods of 2 weeks each, separated by a 2-week washout period. We measured objective sleep quality using an actigraph, and assessed the subjective symptoms using St Mary's Hospital Sleep Questionnaire. Actigraph data showed that after administration of crocetin, the number of wakening episodes was reduced compared to that of the placebo (p=0.025). Subjective data from St Mary's Hospital Sleep Questionnaire showed that crocetin tended to improve the quality of sleep compared to sleep before its intake. Additionally, no side effects from crocetin intake were observed. The results suggest that crocetin may contribute to improving the quality of sleep.

UI  - 20522079
TI  - Evaluating therapeutic effect in symptoms of moderate-to-severe premenstrual syndrome with Vitex agnus castus (BNO 1095) in Chinese women.
AB  - Vitex agnus castus is more effective than placebo in the treatment of moderate-to-severe PMS in Chinese women, especially in symptoms of negative effect and insomnia.

UI  - 20478741
TI  - Insomnia severity is an indicator of suicidal ideation during a depression clinical trial.
AB  - The results support the concept that insomnia may be a useful indicator for suicidal ideation and now extend this idea into clinical trials. Insomnia remains an independent indicator of suicidal ideation, even taking into account the core symptoms of depression such as depressed mood and anhedonia. The complaint of insomnia during a depression clinical trial might indicate that more direct questioning about suicide is warranted.

UI  - 20435443
TI  - The importance of a good night's sleep: an open-label trial of the sodium salt of gamma-hydroxybutyric acid in insomnia associated with schizophrenia.
AB  - 

UI  - 20411695
TI  - Sleep restriction therapy and hypnotic withdrawal versus sleep hygiene education in hypnotic using patients with insomnia.
AB  - These results provide evidence that more intensive treatment of insomnia (i.e., 8 sessions of SR+HW plus hypnotic withdrawal instructions) results in better outcomes than SHE alone.

UI  - 20397964
TI  - Sublingual zolpidem in early onset of sleep compared to oral zolpidem: polysomnographic study in patients with primary insomnia.
AB  - The results demonstrate that sublingual zolpidem is superior to an equivalent dose of oral zolpidem in terms of sleep inducing properties in a carefully selected sample of primary insomnia patients.

UI  - 20390696
TI  - Provision of ancillary medications during buprenorphine detoxification does not improve treatment outcomes.
AB  - For individuals dependent on opioids, recovery efforts begin with a period of withdrawal that typically includes discomfort from symptoms, possibly precipitating a return to drug use. The study described here investigated whether the provision of ancillary medications for opioid withdrawal symptoms affected treatment outcomes in 139 participants receiving buprenorphine in a 13-day detoxification trial. Outcome measures include the number of opioid-free urine samples collected and retention in treatment. Ancillary medications were provided to 70% of participants: 59% received medication for insomnia, 45% for anxiety, 40% for bone pain, 35% for nausea, and 28% for diarrhea. Findings indicate no difference in the number of opioid-free urine samples between the group receiving ancillary medication and the group who did not, although tests of specific ancillary medications indicate that those who received diarrhea medication had fewer opioid-free urines than those who did not (P = .004). Results also indicate that participants attended fewer days of treatment if they received anxiety, nausea, or diarrhea medication compared to no medication (all P values < .05).

UI  - 20376002
TI  - Orexin receptor antagonism, a new sleep-promoting paradigm: an ascending single-dose study with almorexant.
AB  - Almorexant, a dual orexin receptor antagonist potentially representing a new class of sleep-promoting compounds, was administered in an ascending single-dose study to evaluate tolerability, pharmacokinetics, and pharmacodynamics. Seventy healthy male subjects were enrolled in this double-blind, placebo- and active-controlled study. Each dose level (1-1,000 mg) was investigated in a separate group of 10 subjects (6 on almorexant, 2 on placebo, 2 on zolpidem 10 mg). Almorexant was well tolerated with no signs of cataplexy. Peak plasma concentration (C(max)) was quickly attained (median time to maximum concentration (t(max)) ranged from 0.7 to 2.3 h), and plasma concentrations subsequently decreased quickly to ~20% of C(max) over the course of 8 h. Vigilance, alertness, and visuomotor and motor coordination were reduced following daytime administration of zolpidem or almorexant at doses of > or =400 mg. Population pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic modeling suggested that doses of ~500 mg almorexant and 10 mg zolpidem are equivalent with respect to subjectively assessed alertness.

UI  - 20196640
TI  - Health-related quality of life during hormone therapy after breast cancer: a randomized trial.
AB  - The effects of HT on quality of life in breast cancer survivors have not previously been reported. The present data suggest that this controversial treatment may improve quality of life after breast cancer.

UI  - 20191935
TI  - Effect of gaboxadol on patient-reported measures of sleep and waking function in patients with Primary Insomnia: results from two randomized, controlled, 3-month studies.
AB  - Gaboxadol 15 mg showed variable efficacy on measures of sleep duration and onset at 3 months in adult patients with Primary Insomnia in these studies and appeared to be more effective in women than men. Gaboxadol 10 mg was not effective in these studies. (Clinical trial registration numbers: NCT00103818, NCT00095069).

UI  - 20175406
TI  - A 12-week, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study evaluating the effect of eszopiclone 2 mg on sleep/wake function in older adults with primary and comorbid insomnia.
AB  - A Long-Term Safety and Efficacy Study of Eszopiclone in Elderly Subjects With Primary Chronic Insomnia; Registration #NCT00386334; URL - http://www.clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT00386334?term=eszopiclone&rank=24

UI  - 20124884
TI  - Treatment effects of gabapentin for primary insomnia.
AB  - Gabapentin enhances slow-wave sleep in patients with primary insomnia. It also improves sleep quality by elevating sleep efficiency and decreasing spontaneous arousal. The results suggest that gabapentin may be beneficial in the treatment of primary insomnia.

UI  - 20052524
TI  - Multinomial logistic estimation of Markov-chain models for modeling sleep architecture in primary insomnia patients.
AB  - Hypnotic drug development calls for a better understanding of sleep physiology in order to improve and differentiate novel medicines for the treatment of sleep disorders. On this basis, a proper evaluation of polysomnographic data collected in clinical trials conducted to explore clinical efficacy of novel hypnotic compounds should include the assessment of sleep architecture and its drug-induced changes. This work presents a non-linear mixed-effect Markov-chain model based on multinomial logistic functions which characterize the time course of transition probabilities between sleep stages in insomniac patients treated with placebo. Polysomnography measurements were obtained from patients during one night treatment. A population approach was used to describe the time course of sleep stages (awake stage, stage 1, stage 2, slow-wave sleep and REM sleep) using a Markov-chain model. The relationship between time and individual transition probabilities between sleep stages was modelled through piecewise linear multinomial logistic functions. The identification of the model produced a good adherence of mean post-hoc estimates to the observed transition frequencies. Parameters were generally well estimated in terms of CV, shrinkage and distribution of empirical Bayes estimates around the typical values. The posterior predictive check analysis showed good consistency between model-predicted and observed sleep parameters. In conclusion, the Markov-chain model based on multinomial logistic functions provided an accurate description of the time course of sleep stages together with an assessment of the probabilities of transition between different stages.

UI  - 20035910
TI  - Eszopiclone improves insomnia and depressive and anxious symptoms in perimenopausal and postmenopausal women with hot flashes: a randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled crossover trial.
AB  - Eszopiclone treats insomnia and cooccurring menopause-related symptoms. Our results provide evidence that hypnotic therapies may improve multiple domains of well-being during midlife.

UI  - 20007734
TI  - The effects of nabilone on sleep in fibromyalgia: results of a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Nabilone is effective in improving sleep in patients with FM and is well tolerated. Low-dose nabilone given once daily at bedtime may be considered as an alternative to amitriptyline. Longer trials are needed to determine the duration of effect and to characterize long-term safety.

UI  - 19945340
TI  - Treatment of elderly primary insomnia patients with EVT 201 improves sleep initiation, sleep maintenance, and daytime sleepiness.
AB  - EVT 201 improved PSG measures of sleep onset and sleep maintenance and significantly reduced daytime physiological sleep tendency. These findings suggest that treatment of primary insomnia in older patients has the potential to improve daytime sleepiness as well as sleep.

UI  - 19894388
TI  - The XIA's No. 1 sleeping Prescription for the treatment of insomnia of the deficiency type: a clinical observation of 60 cases.
AB  - The XIA's No. 1 Sleeping Prescription is effective for insomnia of the deficiency type and with no obvious toxic side effects.

UI  - 19888921
TI  - Melatonin decreases daytime challenging behaviour in persons with intellectual disability and chronic insomnia.
AB  - Melatonin treatment in persons with ID and chronic insomnia decreases daytime challenging behaviour, probably by improving sleep maintenance or by improving circadian melatonin rhythmicity.

UI  - 19841476
TI  - Nelotanserin, a novel selective human 5-hydroxytryptamine2A inverse agonist for the treatment of insomnia.
AB  - 5-Hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)(2A) receptor inverse agonists are promising therapeutic agents for the treatment of sleep maintenance insomnias. Among these agents is nelotanserin, a potent, selective 5-HT(2A) inverse agonist. Both radioligand binding and functional inositol phosphate accumulation assays suggest that nelotanserin has low nanomolar potency on the 5-HT(2A) receptor with at least 30- and 5000-fold selectivity compared with 5-HT(2C) and 5-HT(2B) receptors, respectively. Nelotanserin dosed orally prevented (+/-)-1-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane (DOI; 5-HT(2A) agonist)-induced hypolocomotion, increased sleep consolidation, and increased total nonrapid eye movement sleep time and deep sleep, the latter marked by increases in electroencephalogram (EEG) delta power. These effects on rat sleep were maintained after repeated subchronic dosing. In healthy human volunteers, nelotanserin was rapidly absorbed after oral administration and achieved maximum concentrations 1 h later. EEG effects occurred within 2 to 4 h after dosing, and were consistent with vigilance-lowering. A dose response of nelotanserin was assessed in a postnap insomnia model in healthy subjects. All doses (up to 40 mg) of nelotanserin significantly improved measures of sleep consolidation, including decreases in the number of stage shifts, number of awakenings after sleep onset, microarousal index, and number of sleep bouts, concomitant with increases in sleep bout duration. Nelotanserin did not affect total sleep time, or sleep onset latency. Furthermore, subjective pharmacodynamic effects observed the morning after dosing were minimal and had no functional consequences on psychomotor skills or memory. These studies point to an efficacy and safety profile for nelotanserin that might be ideally suited for the treatment of sleep maintenance insomnias.

UI  - 19725253
TI  - Diclofenac potassium restores objective and subjective measures of sleep quality in women with primary dysmenorrhea.
AB  - Diclofenac potassium effectively attenuates nighttime dysmenorrheic pain and restores subjective and objective measures of sleep quality to values recorded in a pain-free phase of the menstrual cycle.

UI  - 19694735
TI  - Effect of renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of PD 0200390, a novel ligand for the voltage-gated calcium channel alpha-2-delta subunit.
AB  - PD 0200390 pharmacokinetic parameters (CL/F, CL(R) and AUC(0-infinity)) vary predictably with decreases in renal function; therefore dose adjustment may be required in individuals with RI.

UI  - 19584739
TI  - The effect of prolonged-release melatonin on sleep measures and psychomotor performance in elderly patients with insomnia.
AB  - Objectives of this study were to investigate the effects of prolonged-release melatonin 2 mg (PRM) on sleep and subsequent daytime psychomotor performance in patients aged > or =55 years with primary insomnia, as defined by fourth revision of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders of the American Psychiatric Association. Patients (N = 40) were treated nightly single-blind with placebo (2 weeks), randomized double-blind to PRM or placebo (3 weeks) followed by withdrawal period (3 weeks). Sleep was assessed by polysomnography, all-night sleep electroencephalography spectral analysis and questionnaires. Psychomotor performance was assessed by the Leeds Psychomotor Test battery. By the end of the double-blind treatment, the PRM group had significantly shorter sleep onset latency (9 min; P = 0.02) compared with the placebo group and scored significantly better in the Critical Flicker Fusion Test (P = 0.008) without negatively affecting sleep structure and architecture. Half of the patients reported substantial improvement in sleep quality at home with PRM compared with 15% with placebo (P = 0.018). No rebound effects were observed during withdrawal. In conclusion, nightly treatment with PRM effectively induced sleep and improved perceived quality of sleep in patients with primary insomnia aged > or =55 years. Daytime psychomotor performance was not impaired and was consistently better with PRM compared with placebo. PRM was well tolerated with no evidence of rebound effects.

UI  - 19548434
TI  - [Effect of modified xiaoyao powder for improving sleep in patients with psychological stress insomnia].
AB  - JXYP, combined with or without Estazolam, can improve the quality of sleep subjectively, and the combination of the two could enhance the efficacy of sleep in patients with psychological stress insomnia.

UI  - 19548433
TI  - [Analysis on somnipathy related factors in elderly patients with stroke and comparative study on the efficacy of treatment by traditional Chinese medicine and by estazolam].
AB  - The occurrence of somnipathy in stroke patients was closely related with the property and site of lesion, and the neurological deficit degree of patients. Better sleep is surely favorable for recovery of the nervous function, and TCM shows a favorable efficacy on somnipathy.

UI  - 19542983
TI  - The efficacy of pregabalin and benzodiazepines in generalized anxiety disorder presenting with high levels of insomnia.
AB  - The objective of this study was to assess the impact of high levels of insomnia on response to pregabalin (PGB) in patients with generalized anxiety disorder (GAD). Pooled data were analyzed from six double-blind, placebo-controlled, 4- to 6-week trials of outpatients who met the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (fourth edition) criteria for GAD with a minimum Hamilton Rating Scale for Anxiety (HAM-A) score = 18. Response was evaluated for three fixed-dose PGB groups (150, 300-450, 600 mg/day), and for a benzodiazepine group (alprazolam or lorazepam). A 'high-insomnia' subgroup was defined by a baseline HAM for Depression (HAM-D) insomnia factor score greater than 3 (maximum = 6). At baseline, 1002 (54%) patients met the criteria for the high-insomnia subgroup, and 852 (46%) for the low-insomnia subgroup. Mean baseline HAM-A scores were 1-2 points higher in high-insomnia versus low-insomnia patients. In high-insomnia patients, PGB produced significantly greater improvement in HAM-A total scores at last observation carried forward endpoint on 300-450 mg (-13.1+/-0.6) and 600 mg (-11.2+/-0.5) dose groups compared with placebo (-8.3+/-0.5; P<0.0001 for both comparisons); the improvement on PGB 150 mg was not significant (-9.9+/-0.7; P = 0.051). Improvement was significant in the benzodiazepine group (-11.0+/-0.6; P<0.0001). In the high-insomnia subgroup, treatment with PGB significantly (P<0.001) improved the HAM-D insomnia factor scores on both the 300-450 mg (-2.73) and 600 mg (-2.35) doses, and on benzodiazepines (-2.52) compared with placebo (-1.51); improvement on PGB 150 mg (-1.69) was not significant. Rates of treatment-emergent insomnia were lower on PGB compared with placebo in both the high- and low-insomnia subgroups. In conclusion, PGB was well tolerated, and improved overall anxiety symptoms, while specifically improving insomnia in patients with GAD presenting with high levels of concurrent insomnia.

UI  - 19505198
TI  - Validation of the sleep impact scale in patients with major depressive disorder and insomnia.
AB  - This study yielded adequate evidence of the validity of the SIS for use in clinical trials and research on MDD patients with comorbid insomnia.

UI  - 19463883
TI  - Zaleplon increases nocturnal melatonin secretion in humans.
AB  - Insomnia is the most common sleep condition. Many hypnotics decrease nocturnal melatonin secretion. The aim of this research consists of studying the effect of the hypnotic drug zaleplon on melatonin secretion. Twelve non-smoker drug-free healthy male subjects participated in the study. All participants were normal sleepers and aged 33.2 +/- 11.7 years. They orally took 10 mg of zaleplon at 22:00 h in a double-blind, randomized, cross-over design. The study was carried out during two consecutive days in a week-end. Blood samples were extracted at 22:00, 23:00, 24:00, 01:00, 02:00 and 12:00 h. Melatonin was measured by an ELISA assay. All the subjects had a circadian rhythm of melatonin secretion. Zaleplon compared to placebo increased significantly the melatonin levels at 23:00, 24:00 and 01:00 h. No differences in melatonin levels between placebo and zaleplon were found at 12:00, 22:00 and 02:00 h. Zaleplon compared to placebo increased by 46% the Area Under the Curve of melatonin secretion. The present study indicates that zaleplon increases nocturnal melatonin secretion without increasing daytime melatonin levels. We suggest that when clinicians prescribe a hypnotic, the effect on melatonin levels should be another parameter to be taken into account.

UI  - 19440075
TI  - Zolpidem extended-release improves sleep and next-day symptoms in comorbid insomnia and generalized anxiety disorder.
AB  - A multicenter, double-blind, parallel-group study was designed to assess the efficacy and safety of zolpidem extended-release coadministered with escitalopram in patients with insomnia and comorbid generalized anxiety disorder. Patients (N = 383) received open-label escitalopram 10 mg/d and were randomized to either adjunct zolpidem extended-release 12.5 mg or placebo. The primary efficacy measure was change from baseline to week 8 in subjective total sleep time. Secondary efficacy measures included subjective sleep onset latency, number of awakenings, wake time after sleep onset, sleep quality, the Hamilton Rating Scale for Anxiety, the Beck Anxiety Inventory, the Sleep Impact Scale, the Massachusetts General Hospital Cognitive and Physical Functioning Questionnaire, and the Sheehan Disability Scale. The last-observation-carried-forward method was used to impute missing values for most efficacy measures. Safety was monitored at each visit. At week 8 and all time points, there was a significant improvement in the zolpidem extended-release/escitalopram group compared with placebo/escitalopram for total sleep time (P < 0.0001). Most of the secondary efficacy measures also significantly favored zolpidem at most visits (P < 0.0001). The most common treatment-emergent adverse events in both groups were nausea, dizziness, headache, fatigue, and dry mouth. Concurrent zolpidem extended-release/escitalopram, compared with placebo/escitalopram, significantly improved insomnia and sleep-related next-day symptoms, but not anxiety symptoms, in patients with comorbid insomnia and generalized anxiety disorder.

UI  - 19410509
TI  - The effects of pregabalin on sleep disturbance symptoms among individuals with fibromyalgia syndrome.
AB  - These data demonstrate improvement in FM-related sleep dysfunction with pregabalin therapy. The majority of this benefit was a direct effect of pregabalin on the patients' insomnia, while the remainder occurred through the drug's analgesic activity.

UI  - 19403468
TI  - Controlled clinical trial of zolpidem for the treatment of insomnia associated with attention-deficit/ hyperactivity disorder in children 6 to 17 years of age.
AB  - Zolpidem at a dose of 0.25 mg/kg per day to a maximum of 10 mg failed to reduce the latency to persistent sleep on polysomnographic recordings after 4 weeks of treatment in children and adolescents 6 through 17 years of age who had attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder-associated insomnia.

UI  - 19351801
TI  - Effects on sleep stages and microarchitecture of caffeine and its combination with zolpidem or trazodone in healthy volunteers.
AB  - Caffeine is the world's most popular stimulant and is known to disrupt sleep. Administration of caffeine can therefore be used in healthy volunteers to mimic the effects of insomnia and thus to test the hypnotic effects of medication. This study assessed the effects of caffeine on sleep architecture and electroencephalography (EEG) spectrum alone and in combination with two different sleep-promoting medications. Home polysomnography was performed in 12 healthy male volunteers in a double-blind study whereby subjects received placebo, caffeine (150 mg), caffeine plus zolpidem (10 mg) and caffeine plus trazodone (100 mg) at bedtime in a randomised crossover design. In addition to delaying sleep onset, caffeine decreased total sleep time (TST), sleep efficiency (SE) and stage 2 sleep without significantly altering wake after sleep onset or the number of awakenings. Zolpidem attenuated the caffeine-induced decrease in SE and increased spindle density in the caffeine plus zolpidem combination compared with placebo. Trazodone attenuated the decrease in SE and TST, and it also increased stage 3 sleep, decreased the number of awakenings and decreased the spindle density. No significant changes in rapid eye movement (REM) sleep were observed, neither was any significant alteration in slow wave activity nor other EEG spectral measures, although the direction of change was similar to that previously reported for caffeine and appeared to 'normalise' after trazodone. These data suggest that caffeine mimics some, but not all of the sleep disruption seen in insomnia and that its disruptive effects are differentially attenuated by the actions of sleep-promoting compounds with distinct mechanisms of action.

UI  - 19346160
TI  - A 2-week efficacy and safety study of gaboxadol and zolpidem using electronic diaries in primary insomnia outpatients.
AB  - Gaboxadol 15mg treatment for 2 weeks significantly improved sleep onset and maintenance variables as well as sleep quality and daytime function, as did zolpidem. Gaboxadol 5 and 10mg also showed benefits on most efficacy variables. Gaboxadol was generally safe and well tolerated, with no evidence of withdrawal symptoms or rebound insomnia after discontinuation of short-term treatment. For zolpidem, transient rebound insomnia was observed.

UI  - 19345644
TI  - The partial positive allosteric GABA(A) receptor modulator EVT 201 is efficacious and safe in the treatment of adult primary insomnia patients.
AB  - This first study of EVT 201 in adult patients with primary insomnia demonstrated improved measures of sleep onset and sleep maintenance, including during the third and fourth quarters of the night. Adverse events were infrequent and all were mild to moderate in severity.

UI  - 19344044
TI  - Intensity and treatment of symptoms in 3,030 palliative care patients: a cross-sectional survey of the EAPC Research Network.
AB  - This survey shows that clinically relevant symptoms are frequent and that one-third to half of the patients with a symptom observed as moderate or severe do not receive any treatment aimed to reduce the symptom intensity. Several symptoms and treatments differed between WHO-groups, cancer diagnoses, metastasis locations, countries, and genders. Prescription practice varied between countries both in terms of medication administered and percent of patients receiving specific treatment.

UI  - 19330598
TI  - Low-dose estradiol for climacteric symptoms in Japanese women: a randomized, controlled trial.
AB  - The dose of 0.5 mg/day was effective as the oral E2 starting dose for treatment of hot flushes in Japanese women.

UI  - 19317379
TI  - Effect of ramelteon on middle-of-the-night balance in older adults with chronic insomnia.
AB  - In older adults, ramelteon did not impair middle-of-the night balance, mobility, or memory relative to placebo.

UI  - 19317378
TI  - Ramelteon for insomnia symptoms in a community sample of adults with generalized anxiety disorder: an open label study.
AB  - Data from this 12-week open-label study suggests ramelteon is an effective and generally well tolerated treatment for insomnia symptoms in this community sample of adults with GAD.

UI  - 19294955
TI  - Efficacy and safety of 6-month nightly ramelteon administration in adults with chronic primary insomnia.
AB  - In adults with chronic insomnia, long-term ramelteon treatment consistently reduced sleep onset, with no next-morning residual effects or rebound insomnia or withdrawal symptoms upon discontinuation.

UI  - 19284927
TI  - Safety and subjective sleep effects of ramelteon administration in adults and older adults with chronic primary insomnia: a 1-year, open-label study.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00671086.

UI  - 19237617
TI  - Ramelteon for the treatment of insomnia in menopausal women.
AB  - Overall, results suggest that ramelteon is an effective non-hormonal approach for the treatment of insomnia in menopause. Randomized-controlled trials are needed to further evaluate the efficacy of this intervention.

UI  - 19192438
TI  - Efficacy and safety of doxepin 1 mg, 3 mg, and 6 mg in elderly patients with primary insomnia: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled crossover study.
AB  - In this 2-night study of elderly adults with primary insomnia, doxepin doses of 1 mg, 3 mg, and 6 mg were well tolerated and produced significant improvement in objective and subjective sleep maintenance and duration endpoints that persisted into the final hour of the night. Positive effects on patient-reported sleep onset were observed at the highest dose. All 3 doxepin doses had a safety profile comparable to placebo. These data demonstrate that doxepin was efficacious in improving sleep in elderly adults.

UI  - 19188575
TI  - Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of XP13512/GSK1838262 in patients with RLS.
AB  - XP13512 1,200 mg, taken once daily, significantly improved restless legs syndrome (RLS) symptoms compared with placebo and was generally well tolerated in adults with moderate to severe primary RLS.

UI  - 19127908
TI  - [Observation on the therapeutic effect of neck clustered needling on insomnia].
AB  - The therapeutic effect of the neck clustered needling on insomnia is better than that of the medicine.

UI  - 20581790
TI  - The efficacy and tolerability of once-daily controlled-release trazodone for depressed mood, anxiety, insomnia, and suicidality in major depressive disorder.
AB  - Trazodone Contramid(R) once-a-day (TzCOAD) is a reformulation of trazodone hydrochloride that controls the release of trazodone over 24 hours. A standard effect size analysis (Cohen's d) determined which items of the 17-item Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAMD-17) and the Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS) showed the greatest improvement in patients with major depressive disorder (MDD), following up to 8 weeks of therapy with TzCOAD. An additional insomnia analysis assessed whether the efficacy of TzCOAD is influenced by improvements in insomnia or baseline severity of insomnia. The analyses used data from a randomized study of 412 patients receiving 150-375 mg TzCOAD (N = 206) or placebo (N = 206). The results of the Cohen's d analysis on the modified intent-to-treat population (LOCF) showed HAMD items with the greatest improvement were insomnia items (middle (-0.35), late (-0.24)), feelings of guilt (-0.24), and depressed mood (-0.23); for MADRS items they were reduced sleep (-0.31), inner tension (-0.22), reported sadness (-0.21), and suicidal thoughts (-0.21). An analysis of covariance showed no significant interaction between improvements in the HAMD Bech-6 core symptoms of depression and the baseline MADRS reduced sleep item or early changes in the HAMD-17 sleep disturbance factor. These results suggest that the antidepressant efficacy was independent of the baseline severity of insomnia and of the improvement in insomnia. Overall, the results elucidate the efficacy components and tolerability characteristics previously demonstrated for TzCOAD monotherapy for patients with MDD at the recommended daily dose of 300 mg.

UI  - 19115423
TI  - Cognitive-behavioural, pharmacological and psychosocial predictors of outcome during tapered discontinuation of benzodiazepine.
AB  - Eighty-six participants wishing to stop benzodiazepine and who met DSM-IV (Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, 4th ed. American Psychological Association, 1994) criteria for anxiety disorder or insomnia were assessed pre- and post-taper on clinical, pharmacological and psychosocial measures. An initial cohort of 41 participants received treatment as usual (taper only) plus physician counselling in the same clinic setting. A second cohort of 45 participants were randomly allocated to group cognitive-behavioural therapy (CBT) plus taper, or group support (GS) plus taper. At 3 months follow-up, the outcomes in both the CBT and the GS subgroups were equivalent. Intention to treat analysis revealed a slight advantage to the CBT over the GS group and the CBT group showed higher self-efficacy post-taper.Over all 86 participants, a high-baseline level of psychological distress, anxiety and dosage predicted a poor outcome, but increase in self-efficacy contributed to a successful outcome particularly in those with initially poor baseline predictors. Although there was a decrease in positive affect during preliminary stages of tapered discontinuation compared to baseline, there was no significant overall increase in negative affect.

UI  - 19090503
TI  - Effects of long-term exposure to ramelteon, a melatonin receptor agonist, on endocrine function in adults with chronic insomnia.
AB  - Long-term exposure to ramelteon 16 mg, a potent melatonin receptor agonist, resulted in mild, transient increase in prolactin, in women only, that were not associated with measurable reproductive effects. There were no consistent changes in other endocrine measures.

UI  - 19090322
TI  - APD125, a selective serotonin 5-HT(2A) receptor inverse agonist, significantly improves sleep maintenance in primary insomnia.
AB  - APD125 produced statistically significant improvements in objective parameters of sleep maintenance and sleep consolidation and was well tolerated in adults with primary chronic insomnia.

UI  - 19078947
TI  - The use of a clinical utility index to compare insomnia compounds: a quantitative basis for benefit-risk assessment.
AB  - The use of a clinical utility index (CUI) was proposed in order to compare two calcium channel alpha2delta ligands that were in development for the treatment of insomnia. The important attributes included in the CUI were two measures of residual sedation and five measures of efficacy (wake after sleep onset, sleep quality, sleep latency, and sleep stages (stage 1 and stages 3-4)). Dose-response analyses were conducted on each end point, and a sensitivity analysis was conducted to determine a clinically meaningful difference in CUI. Nonparametric bootstrap parameters were used to build confidence intervals (CIs). Peak CUI (80% CI) was 0.345 (0.25-0.43), observed at a dose of approximately 30 mg with the lead compound and 0.436 (0.35-0.52) observed at >600-mg dose for the backup. Although CUI was slightly greater for the backup, peak CUI values were observed at doses that were not considered viable, and therefore development of the ligand was discontinued. The use of the CUI allowed an efficient, quantitative, and transparent decision.

UI  - 19054552
TI  - Melatonin agonist tasimelteon (VEC-162) for transient insomnia after sleep-time shift: two randomised controlled multicentre trials.
AB  - After an abrupt advance in sleep time, tasimelteon improved sleep initiation and maintenance concurrently with a shift in endogenous circadian rhythms. Tasimelteon may have therapeutic potential for transient insomnia in circadian rhythm sleep disorders.

UI  - 18996742
TI  - Sublingual zolpidem is more effective than oral zolpidem in initiating early onset of sleep in the post-nap model of transient insomnia: a polysomnographic study.
AB  - The present results show that OX22, a sublingual formulation of zolpidem, has a significant earlier sleep initiation as compared to an equivalent dose of oral zolpidem in healthy volunteers in a post-nap model of insomnia.

UI  - 18853933
TI  - Effect of gaboxadol on sleep in adult and elderly patients with primary insomnia: results from two randomized, placebo-controlled, 30-night polysomnography studies.
AB  - The maximum studied doses of gaboxadol (GBX15 in adult patients and GBX10 in elderly patients) were effective at enhancing objective polysomnography measures of sleep maintenance and SWS, and also some subjective sleep measures, over 30 nights but had little or no effects on sleep onset. The clinical relevance of the enhancement of SWS by gaboxadol is unclear.

UI  - 18852348
TI  - Sodium oxybate for excessive daytime sleepiness in Parkinson disease: an open-label polysomnographic study.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00641186.

UI  - 18850496
TI  - Pilot study of lorazepam and tiagabine effects on sleep, motor learning, and impulsivity in cocaine abstinence.
AB  - These results introduce the possibility of different, sleep-related cognitive effects of mechanistically distinct GABAergic sedative hypnotics.

UI  - 18788653
TI  - Low-dose sublingual zolpidem tartrate is associated with dose-related improvement in sleep onset and duration in insomnia characterized by middle-of-the-night (MOTN) awakenings.
AB  - Low-dose sublingual zolpidem tartrate may be suitable for treatment of patients who have difficulty resuming sleep after MOTN awakenings.

UI  - 18782876
TI  - Control of childhood congenital adrenal hyperplasia and sleep activity and quality with morning or evening glucocorticoid therapy.
AB  - With respect to disease control, sleep quality and daytime activity were not affected by treatment schedules. We recommend the high-morning dose schedule in replacement therapy of children with CAH.

UI  - 18691937
TI  - The effects of ramelteon in a first-night model of transient insomnia.
AB  - Ramelteon 8 mg significantly decreased latency to persistent sleep and increased total sleep time, with no significant next-morning psychomotor, memory, or cognitive effects in this first-night model of transient insomnia.

UI  - 18595436
TI  - The acute and post-discontinuation effects of a glucocorticoid receptor (GR) antagonist probe on sleep and the HPA axis in chronic insomnia: a pilot study.
AB  - This is the first study of a GR antagonist in chronic insomnia. Sleep improvement manifests in terms of decreased ISI post-treatment discontinuation. The decrease in cortisol in the early evening (18:00 to 23:00) in combination with the decrease in cortisol/ ACTH ratio may be an indicator of the longer-term biological mode of action of the drug.

UI  - 18595435
TI  - A polysomnographic placebo-controlled evaluation of the efficacy and safety of eszopiclone relative to placebo and zolpidem in the treatment of primary insomnia.
AB  - Relative to placebo, all active treatments were effective in reducing LPS and increasing SE. Eszopiclone 3 mg was significantly different from placebo on the 3 PSG measures of sleep maintenance (WASO, WTDS, and NAW). Significant differences between zolpidem 10 mg and eszopiclone (2 mg or 3 mg) were not observed for PSG-measured outcomes, although the study was not powered to detect differences between the active drug conditions.

UI  - 18540923
TI  - A randomized double-blind pilot trial of gabapentin versus placebo to treat alcohol dependence and comorbid insomnia.
AB  - Because gabapentin is a short-acting medication that was taken only at nighttime in this study, it may possibly exert a nocturnal effect that prevents relapse to heavy drinking by a physiological mechanism not measured in this pilot study.

UI  - 18539989
TI  - Melatonin for chronic insomnia in Angelman syndrome: a randomized placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - Previous studies suggested that melatonin improves sleep in insomniac patients with Angelman syndrome. To assess the efficacy of melatonin, a randomized placebo-controlled study was conducted in 8 children with Angelman syndrome with idiopathic chronic insomnia. After a 1-week baseline period, patients received, depending on age, either melatonin 5 or 2.5 mg, or placebo, followed by 4 weeks of open treatment. Parents recorded lights off time, sleep onset time, wake-up time, and epileptic seizures in a diary. Salivary melatonin levels were measured at baseline and the last evening of the fourth treatment week. Melatonin significantly advanced sleep onset by 28 minutes, decreased sleep latency by 32 minutes, increased total sleep time by 56 minutes, reduced the number of nights with wakes from 3.1 to 1.6 nights a week, and increased endogenous salivary melatonin levels. Parents were satisfied with these results. Indications that melatonin dose in Angelman syndrome patients should be low, are discussed.

UI  - 18484552
TI  - Effects of zolpidem on cyclic alternating pattern, an objective marker of sleep instability, in Japanese patients with psychophysiological insomnia: a randomized crossover comparative study with placebo.
AB  - In Japanese patients with psychophysiological insomnia, zolpidem increased sleep stability by significantly improving the overnight CAP rate. Zolpidem also improved sleep depth and sleep quality, both subjectively and objectively.

UI  - 18482867
TI  - A randomized clinical trial of valerian fails to improve self-reported, polysomnographic, and actigraphic sleep in older women with insomnia.
AB  - Valerian did not improve sleep in this sample of older women with insomnia. Findings from this study add to the scientific evidence that does not support use of valerian in the clinical management of insomnia.

UI  - 18458207
TI  - Eszopiclone coadministered with escitalopram in patients with insomnia and comorbid generalized anxiety disorder.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00235508.

UI  - 18454251
TI  - The homeopathic preparation Neurexan vs. valerian for the treatment of insomnia: an observational study.
AB  - Insomnia is prevalent and complementary therapies are common, but data are lacking on the effectiveness and tolerability of preparations beyond valerian. Here we report on an open-label, prospective cohort study in 89 German centers offering both conventional and complementary therapies. Subjects received the homeopathic preparation Neurexan or valerian for 28 days. Doses were at physicians' judgments. Sleep duration and latency were evaluated based on patients' sleep diaries over 14 days; sleep quality was evaluated at 28 +/- 1 days. A total of 409 subjects were enrolled. The groups were balanced at baseline for age, sex, weight, and sleep disturbances. At day 14, both groups reported improved sleep latency and duration; latency was reduced from baseline by 37.3 +/- 36.3 min with Neurexan and by 38.2 +/- 38.5 min with valerian. The duration of sleep increased by 2.2 (+/-1.6) h in the Neurexan group and by 2.0 (+/-1.5) h in the valerian group. Differences between the groups in improvement on sleep duration were significantly in favor of Neurexan therapy at days 8, 12, and 14. At day 28, quality of sleep was improved in both groups with no significant differences between the treatments. Significantly more patients reported lack of daytime fatigue with Neurexan than with valerian therapies (49% vs. 32%; p < 0.05 for the comparison). For patients favorable towards a CAM-based therapy, Neurexan might be an effective and well-tolerated alternative to conventional valerian-based therapies for the treatment of mild to moderate insomnia.

UI  - 18377143
TI  - Hypnotic discontinuation in chronic insomnia: impact of psychological distress, readiness to change, and self-efficacy.
AB  - Chronic users of hypnotic medications entered a taper intervention with equal levels of psychological distress, health, self-efficacy, and readiness to change. Successful hypnotic discontinuation was associated with overall improvement of insomnia, anxiety and distress symptoms, perceived health and self-efficacy. More intensive and individualized therapeutic attention may be warranted for individuals experiencing worsening of insomnia symptoms, more withdrawal symptoms and psychological distress, and lower self-efficacy during medication discontinuation.

UI  - 18363314
TI  - Sleep in adults with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) before and during treatment with methylphenidate: a controlled polysomnographic study.
AB  - Sleep problems in patients with ADHD continue from childhood to adulthood, with similar objective sleep characteristics in adults and children with ADHD. Medication with methylphenidate appears to have beneficial effects on sleep parameters in adults with ADHD.

UI  - 18350566
TI  - Next-day cognition, psychomotor function, and driving-related skills following nighttime administration of eszopiclone.
AB  - Nighttime administration of 3 mg eszopiclone improved objective and subjective sleep measures in patients with insomnia (and subjective sleep measures in healthy patients) and did not impair next-day driving-related skills or measures of cognition in either study population relative to placebo.

UI  - 18344728
TI  - Effects of 2-week treatment with temazepam and diphenhydramine in elderly insomniacs: a randomized, placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - A randomized, controlled, crossover clinical study compared 14-night treatment with 15 mg temazepam, 50 mg diphenhydramine, and placebo in elderly individuals with insomnia (mean age, 73.9 years; range, 70-89 years). Primary outcome measures were subjective assessments of sleep recorded on sleep diaries. Secondary measures were the morning-after psychomotor impairment, using the digit symbol substitution task and the manual tracking task, and the morning-after memory impairment, using a free-recall procedure. Results showed sleep improvements with 15 mg temazepam compared with placebo-sleep quality (mean score, 3.3 +/- 0.9 vs 2.9 +/- 0.8; P = 0.03), total sleep time (6.9 +/- 1.0 hours vs 6.3 +/-1.3 hours; P = 0.02), number of awakenings (1.5 +/- 1.3 vs 2.0 +/- 1.2; P < 0.001), and sleep-onset latency (25 +/- 22 minutes vs 37 +/- 25 minutes; P = 0.03). Improvements were seen with diphenhydramine treatment compared with placebo on the number of awakenings only (mean, 1.7 +/- 1.1 vs 2.0 +/- 1.2; P < 0.05). Numbers of adverse events reported were similar after all treatments, although there was 1 fall during temazepam treatment. Findings indicate that temazepam is more effective than diphenhydramine when compared with placebo at the doses tested, although this advantage is mitigated by the risk of falls associated with temazepam use. The choice of agent to use in the elderly must consider these relative benefits and risks.

UI  - 18323223
TI  - [Clinical observation of modified Suan Zao Ren decoction on insomnia of chronic hepatitis B patients].
AB  - Modified Suan Zao Ren Decoction is effective for improving sleep composition, and therefore improve the quality of sleep with few side effect. In the same time, it has the function in improving liver function, and can be used to treat chronic hepatitis B patients with insomnia.

UI  - 18320867
TI  - Climacteric symptom control after the addition of low-dose esterified conjugated estrogens to raloxifene standard doses.
AB  - The treatment that is proposed in this study can constitute a temporary alternative during the period of transition from HT to raloxifene.

UI  - 18303490
TI  - Polysomnographic study of intermittent zolpidem treatment in primary sleep maintenance insomnia.
AB  - Intermittent treatment with zolpidem in primary insomnia patients improves CAP parameters and arousals, as well as sleep duration and quality, in the absence of rebound insomnia.

UI  - 18289144
TI  - Effectiveness of mirtazapine for nausea and insomnia in cancer patients with depression.
AB  - In the present study mirtazapine rapidly improved nausea, sleep disturbance, pain and quality of life, as well as depression in cancer patients. Mirtazapine may be an effective treatment option in managing cancer patients with multiple distressing symptoms, including nausea and sleep disturbance.

UI  - 18280681
TI  - Use of clonidine in children with autism spectrum disorders.
AB  - Children with autism spectrum disorders (ASD) often exhibit sleep and behavioral disorders. Treatment of sleep disorders can be difficult in these children. Clonidine, an alpha2-adrenergic receptor agonist, has been shown to be effective in reducing impulsivity, inattention, and hyperactivity, as well as in serving as a sedative for medial procedures. An open labeled retrospective study of clonidine in treatment of insomnia, and/or hyperactivity, inattention, mood disorder, and aggressive behaviors was conducted using parent reports of sleep initiation and maintenance, as well as behaviors prior and during clonidine treatment. Clonidine was effective in reducing sleep initiation latency and night awakening, to a less degree in improving attention deficits hyperactivity, mood instability and aggressiveness in this cohort of 19 children with ASD. The side effects were largely tolerable. Further evaluation with placebo-controlled double-blind clinical trial of clonidine use in ASD will provide more insight into the clinical efficacy and safety of the medicine in ASD.

UI  - 18261024
TI  - Melatonin treatment in individuals with intellectual disability and chronic insomnia: a randomized placebo-controlled study.
AB  - Melatonin treatment improves some aspects of chronic sleep disturbance in individuals with ID.

UI  - 18257978
TI  - Post-bedtime dosing with indiplon in adults and the elderly: results from two placebo-controlled, active comparator crossover studies in healthy volunteers.
AB  - Indiplon, at doses of 10 mg in adults and 5 mg in the elderly, was not associated with next day residual sedation or impairment in simple cognitive and psychomotor tasks when administered during the night 4 h prior to awakening.

UI  - 18256066
TI  - Trazodone increases arousal threshold in obstructive sleep apnoea.
AB  - A low arousal threshold is believed to predispose to breathing instability during sleep. The present authors hypothesised that trazodone, a nonmyorelaxant sleep-promoting agent, would increase the effort-related arousal threshold in obstructive sleep apnoea (OSA) patients. In total, nine OSA patients, mean+/-sd age 49+/-9 yrs, apnoea/hypopnoea index 52+/-32 events.h(-1), were studied on 2 nights, one with trazodone at 100 mg and one with a placebo, in a double blind randomised fashion. While receiving continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP), repeated arousals were induced: 1) by increasing inspired CO(2) and 2) by stepwise decreases in CPAP level. Respiratory effort was measured with an oesophageal balloon. End-tidal CO(2 )tension (P(ET,CO(2))) was monitored with a nasal catheter. During trazodone nights, compared with placebo nights, the arousals occurred at a higher P(ET,CO(2)) level (mean+/-sd 7.30+/-0.57 versus 6.62+/-0.64 kPa (54.9+/-4.3 versus 49.8+/-4.8 mmHg), respectively). When arousals were triggered by increasing inspired CO(2) level, the maximal oesophageal pressure swing was greater (19.4+/-4.0 versus 13.1+/-4.9 cm H(2)O) and the oesophageal pressure nadir before the arousals was lower (-5.1+/-4.7 versus -0.38+/-4.2 cm H(2)O) with trazodone. When arousals were induced by stepwise CPAP drops, the maximal oesophageal pressure swings before the arousals did not differ. Trazodone at 100 mg increased the effort-related arousal threshold in response to hypercapnia in obstructive sleep apnoea patients and allowed them to tolerate higher CO(2) levels.

UI  - 18246982
TI  - Efficacy and safety of as-needed, post bedtime dosing with indiplon in insomnia patients with chronic difficulty maintaining sleep.
AB  - Patients with chronic insomnia with nocturnal awakenings achieved significant and sustained improvement in sleep parameters while utilizing an as-needed post bedtime dosing strategy with indiplon capsules. Indiplon was well-tolerated, with no self-rated, next-day residual effects.

UI  - 18246681
TI  - The short-term therapeutic effect of the three-part massotherapy for insomnia due to deficiency of both the heart and the spleen--a report of 100 cases.
AB  - The three-part massotherapy has definite therapeutic effects on insomnia due to deficiency of both the heart and the spleen, which is safe and easy to operate, and worthy of popularization.

UI  - 18220081
TI  - Long-term efficacy and safety of zolpidem extended-release 12.5 mg, administered 3 to 7 nights per week for 24 weeks, in patients with chronic primary insomnia: a 6-month, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group, multicenter study.
AB  - These findings establish the efficacy of 3 to 7 nights per week dosing of zolpidem extended-release 12.5 mg for up to 6 months. Treatment provided sustained and significant improvements in sleep onset and maintenance and also improved next-day concentration and morning sleepiness.

UI  - 18182928
TI  - A randomized, controlled prospective trial of zolpidem and haloperidol for use as sleeping agents in pediatric burn patients.
AB  - Children with burn injuries often require hospital treatment where they are subjected to stimuli likely to produce sleep deprivation. Previously demonstrated sleep fragmentation and significantly reduced sleep stage 3/4 and rapid eye movement in this population led to a search for sleep-enhancing interventions. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effects of selected therapeutic interventions on sleep architecture. Forty patients with a mean (+/-SEM) age of 9.4 +/- 0.7 years, mean total burn surface area of 50.1 +/- 2.9% and full thickness burns of 43.2 +/- 3.6% were randomly assigned to one of two treatment regimens using a blinded crossover design. Continuous polysomnographic recordings were obtained for six study periods. Each patient alternately received zolpidem one week and haloperidol the next, with the first monitored night conducted without medication. Zolpidem minimally increased the proportion of 3/4 and rapid eye movement sleep (0.81 +/- 0.16 vs 0.61 +/- 0.10 hrs, P = .02) but not total sleep time (4.8 +/- 0.3 vs 4.3 +/- 0.3 hrs on control nights, P = .1). Haloperidol significantly increased total sleep (5.3 +/- 0.3 vs 4.3 +/- 0.3 hrs on control nights, P = .02) and stage 2 sleep (3.3 +/- 0.3 vs 2.4 +/- 0.2 hrs, P = .001) compared with control nights. Both drugs slightly improved average sleep and wake period duration compared with control nights. Although sleep was somewhat improved by each test drug, there were no statistically significant differences between the drugs. Additional studies are needed to identify methods for improving restorative sleep postburn.

UI  - 18182647
TI  - Melatonin for insomnia in children with autism spectrum disorders.
AB  - We describe our experience in using melatonin to treat insomnia, a common sleep concern, in children with autism spectrum disorders. One hundred seven children (2-18 years of age) with a confirmed diagnosis of autism spectrum disorders who received melatonin were identified by reviewing the electronic medical records of a single pediatrician. All parents were counseled on sleep hygiene techniques. Clinical response to melatonin, based on parental report, was categorized as (1) sleep no longer a concern, (2) improved sleep but continued parental concerns, (3) sleep continues to be a major concern, and (4) worsened sleep. The melatonin dose varied from 0.75 to 6 mg. After initiation of melatonin, parents of 27 children (25%) no longer reported sleep concerns at follow-up visits. Parents of 64 children (60%) reported improved sleep, although continued to have concerns regarding sleep. Parents of 14 children (13%) continued to report sleep problems as a major concern, with only 1 child having worse sleep after starting melatonin (1%), and 1 child having undetermined response (1%). Only 3 children had mild side-effects after starting melatonin, which included morning sleepiness and increased enuresis. There was no reported increase in seizures after starting melatonin in children with pre-existing epilepsy and no new-onset seizures. The majority of children were taking psychotropic medications. Melatonin appears to be a safe and well-tolerated treatment for insomnia in children with autism spectrum disorders. Controlled trials to determine efficacy appear warranted.

UI  - 18165461
TI  - Efficacy and safety of zolpidem extended release in elderly primary insomnia patients.
AB  - Zolpidem extended release 6.25 mg improved both sleep maintenance and sleep induction in elderly primary insomnia patients during three weeks of administration.

UI  - 18078449
TI  - A randomized, placebo-controlled trial of controlled release melatonin treatment of delayed sleep phase syndrome and impaired sleep maintenance in children with neurodevelopmental disabilities.
AB  - The purpose of this study was to determine the efficacy of controlled-release (CR) melatonin in the treatment of delayed sleep phase syndrome and impaired sleep maintenance of children with neurodevelopmental disabilities including autistic spectrum disorders. A randomized double-blind, placebo-controlled crossover trial of CR melatonin (5 mg) followed by a 3-month open-label study was conducted during which the dose was gradually increased until the therapy showed optimal beneficial effects. Sleep characteristics were measured by caregiver who completed somnologs and wrist actigraphs. Clinician rating of severity of the sleep disorder and improvement from baseline, along with caregiver ratings of global functioning and family stress were also obtained. Fifty-one children (age range 2-18 years) who did not respond to sleep hygiene intervention were enrolled. Fifty patients completed the crossover trial and 47 completed the open-label phase. Recordings of total night-time sleep and sleep latency showed significant improvement of approximately 30 min. Similarly, significant improvement was observed in clinician and parent ratings. There was additional improvement in the open-label somnolog measures of sleep efficiency and the longest sleep episode in the open-label phase. Overall, the therapy improved the sleep of 47 children and was effective in reducing family stress. Children with neurodevelopmental disabilities, who had treatment resistant chronic delayed sleep phase syndrome and impaired sleep maintenance, showed improvement in melatonin therapy.

UI  - 18051828
TI  - [The effectiveness of treatment with trazodone in patients with primary insomnia without and with prior history of hypnotics use].
AB  - Trazodone improves sleep quality and daytime functioning independently from prior history of hypnotics use.

UI  - 18041489
TI  - Evaluation of automated and semi-automated scoring of polysomnographic recordings from a clinical trial using zolpidem in the treatment of insomnia.
AB  - Automated or semi-automated sleep PSG scoring offers valuable alternatives to costly, time consuming, and intrasite and intersite variable manual scoring, especially in large multicenter clinical trials. Reduction in scoring variability may also reduce the sample size of a clinical trial.

UI  - 18041488
TI  - Efficacy and safety of doxepin 1 mg, 3 mg, and 6 mg in adults with primary insomnia.
AB  - In adults with primary insomnia, doxepin 1 mg, 3 mg, and 6 mg was well-tolerated and produced improvement in objective and subjective sleep maintenance and duration endpoints that persisted into the final hour of the night. The side-effect profile was comparable to placebo, with no reported anticholinergic effects, no memory impairment, and no significant hangover/next-day residual effects. These data demonstrate that doxepin 1 mg, 3 mg, and 6 mg is efficacious in improving the sleep of patients with chronic primary insomnia.

UI  - 18036082
TI  - Prolonged-release melatonin improves sleep quality and morning alertness in insomnia patients aged 55 years and older and has no withdrawal effects.
AB  - Melatonin, secreted nocturnally by the pineal gland, is an endogenous sleep regulator. Impaired melatonin production and complaints on poor quality of sleep are common among the elderly. Non-restorative sleep (perceived poor quality of sleep) and subsequently poor daytime functioning are increasingly recognized as a leading syndrome in the diagnostic and therapeutic process of insomnia complaints. The effects of 3-weeks prolonged-release melatonin 2 mg (PR-melatonin) versus placebo treatment were assessed in a multi-center randomized placebo-controlled study in 170 primary insomnia outpatients aged > or =55 years. Improvements in quality of sleep (QOS) the night before and morning alertness (BFW) were assessed using the Leeds Sleep Evaluation Questionnaire and changes in sleep quality (QON) reported on five categorical unit scales. Rebound insomnia and withdrawal effects following discontinuation were also evaluated. PR-melatonin significantly improved QOS (-22.5 versus -16.5 mm, P = 0.047), QON (0.89 versus 0.46 units; P = 0.003) and BFW (-15.7 versus -6.8 mm; P = 0.002) compared with placebo. The improvements in QOS and BFW were strongly correlated (Rval = 0.77, P < 0.001) suggesting a beneficial treatment effect on the restorative value of sleep. These results were confirmed in a subgroup of patients with a greater symptom severity. There was no evidence of rebound insomnia or withdrawal effects following treatment discontinuation. The incidence of adverse events was low and most side-effects were judged to be of minor severity. PR-melatonin is the first drug shown to significantly improve quality of sleep and morning alertness in primary insomnia patients aged 55 years and older-suggesting more restorative sleep, and without withdrawal symptoms upon discontinuation.

UI  - 18030651
TI  - Clinical and social determinants of long-term use of benzodiazepines and its impact on quality of life of Chinese schizophrenia patients.
AB  - Although the ethnic and clinical characteristics of the two samples were nearly identical, there was a wide variation in the frequency of BZD prescriptions between HK and BJ suggesting that socio-cultural and economic factors as well as traditions of psychiatric training and practice all played a role in determining the use of BZDs. Prescription of BZDs in either site was not in line with current recommendation.

UI  - 18003562
TI  - Insomnia treatment assessment based on physiological data analysis.
AB  - For the purposes of insomnia treatment, pharmacotherapy is widely used, despite the possibility for the use of behavioural treatment of insomnia. Thus, the assessment and treatment of patients with insomnia needs further investigation. This work addresses insomnia treatment evaluation and medication side-effect assessment based on continuous physiological signals such as EEG and ECG monitoring and analysis. EEG and ECG measurements regarding drug medication (verum/placebo cases) have been used in a series of experiments, where spectral and non-linear features have been calculated, for assessing a possible distinct behaviour between the verum/placebo condition and furthermore the relation of features to a physiological conditions. Results show that a combination of EEG and ECG based characteristics, both spectral and non-linear, can be used to reveal the differences introduced with insomnia medication treatment, either being improvement in the hyperarousal state, or undesired side effects.

UI  - 17996657
TI  - Self-reported efficacy and tolerability of ramelteon 8 mg in older adults experiencing severe sleep-onset difficulty.
AB  - In this subset analysis of older adults with severe baseline sleep-onset difficulties, ramelteon 8 mg significantly and persistently reduced subjective reports of time to sleep onset during 5 weeks of nightly treatment. Ramelteon appeared to be an effective and well-tolerated treatment for these older adults with primary, chronic insomnia.

UI  - 17985961
TI  - Efficacy, safety, and cost effectiveness of intravenous midazolam and flunitrazepam for primary insomnia in terminally ill patients with cancer: a retrospective multicenter audit study.
AB  - Intravenous midazolam and flunitrazepam appeared to be almost equal about efficacy and safety for primary insomnia, but flunitrazepam is less expensive and shows lower risk of tolerance development. A future prospective comparison study is necessary.

UI  - 17957186
TI  - Potential pharmacokinetic basis for zolpidem dosing in children with sleep difficulties.
AB  - The pharmacokinetics of zolpidem was assessed in this open-label, dose-escalation study in children with insomnia. Twenty-one children, seven per age group (2-6, >6 to 12, >12 to 18 years), received a single dose of zolpidem at one of the three dose levels (0.125, 0.25, or 0.50 mg/kg (20 mg maximum dose)). Multiple pharmacokinetic measures were assessed at nine post-dose intervals and pharmacodynamics was assessed by polysomnography and actigraphy. Significant pharmacokinetic effects by dose were observed only as linear increases in maximum concentration (C(max), P<0.001) and area under the plasma concentration-time curve (AUC, P<0.001). Significant pharmacokinetic effects by age group included an increase in AUC (P=0.02), half-life (P=0.04), and mean residence time (P=0.01), whereas total body clearance decreased (P=0.01) and steady-state volume of distribution was variable. Pharmacodynamic measures were independent of the pharmacokinetic estimates. Overall, zolpidem was well tolerated and a pediatric dose of 0.25 mg/kg is recommended for future efficacy studies.

UI  - 17940604
TI  - A televised, web-based randomised trial of an herbal remedy (valerian) for insomnia.
AB  - Controlled-Trials.com ISRCTN72748991.

UI  - 17875243
TI  - Efficacy of prolonged release melatonin in insomnia patients aged 55-80 years: quality of sleep and next-day alertness outcomes.
AB  - The trial was conducted prior to registration being introduced.

UI  - 17868655
TI  - Prazosin effects on objective sleep measures and clinical symptoms in civilian trauma posttraumatic stress disorder: a placebo-controlled study.
AB  - Prazosin reductions of nighttime PTSD symptoms in civilian trauma PTSD are accompanied by increased total sleep time, REM sleep time, and mean REM period duration in the absence of a sedative-like effect on sleep onset latency.

UI  - 17825616
TI  - Efficacy and tolerability of indiplon in older adults with primary insomnia.
AB  - In elderly patients with primary insomnia, indiplon 5 mg and 10 mg were efficacious in inducing and maintaining sleep and improving sleep quality during the two weeks of treatment. Indiplon 5mg was well-tolerated, with no serious adverse events and no significant changes in electrocardiogram (ECG) or routine clinical laboratory evaluations; the 10mg dose produced slightly greater efficacy as well as somewhat increased adverse events.

UI  - 17825448
TI  - Acute effects of zolpidem on daytime alertness, psychomotor and physical performance.
AB  - In a double-blind cross-over study, seven athletes received zolpidem (10mg) or placebo in two sessions over two nights. Residual effects on subsequent daytime functions were evaluated objectively by measuring psychomotor and physical performance using a combined test of finger dexterity, a simple discriminatory reaction test, critical flicker fusion test (CFF), vertical jump, and 50-m sprint, as well as subjectively, by visual analog scales. Zolpidem shortened self-estimated sleep latency and increased total sleep at nighttime. There was no change in alertness and fatigue scales on the following day in the zolpidem session, but realm of daytime well-being was slightly worsened. The CFF test showed significantly better results in the zolpidem group than in the placebo group. Zolpidem did not have effects in athletic evaluation. Zolpidem has a hypnotic activity without disturbing psychomotor and physical performance on the following day when given to healthy adults, suggesting zolpidem may be used in healthy athletes to adjust their extrinsic sleep disturbances and their consecutive psychomotor and physical impairments.

UI  - 17803844
TI  - [Effects of paroxetine with or without zolpidem on depression with insomnia: a multi-center randomized comparative study].
AB  - selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor antidepressant combined with hypnotic augments the effects of antidepressant on the depressive and anxiety symptoms.

UI  - 17803013
TI  - Evaluation of the efficacy and safety of ramelteon in subjects with chronic insomnia.
AB  - Ramelteon reduced LPS over 5 weeks of treatment in subjects with chronic insomnia, with no clinically meaningful sleep architecture alterations, next-morning residual pharmacologic effects, and no evidence of rebound insomnia or withdrawal. No numerical differences were observed between the 2 doses of ramelteon.

UI  - 17803010
TI  - Exploratory polysomnographic evaluation of pregabalin on sleep disturbance in patients with epilepsy.
AB  - This exploratory pilot study suggests that pregabalin may improve sleep continuity in patients with clinically relevant sleep disturbance. The effect on disturbed sleep appears independent of seizure control. The effects of pregabalin on disturbed sleep and seizures and their interrelationships warrant further study.

UI  - 17765013
TI  - Efficacy of the selective extrasynaptic GABA A agonist, gaboxadol, in a model of transient insomnia: a randomized, controlled clinical trial.
AB  - Gaboxadol 10 and 15 mg were efficacious in significantly reducing the sleep maintenance and sleep onset disruption produced by this model of transient insomnia, with effects generally being most pronounced for the 15 mg dose. Gaboxadol also enhanced SWS.

UI  - 17702264
TI  - Nightly treatment of primary insomnia with eszopiclone for six months: effect on sleep, quality of life, and work limitations.
AB  - This is the first placebo-controlled investigation to demonstrate that long-term nightly pharmacologic treatment of primary insomnia with any hypnotic enhanced quality of life, reduced work limitations, and reduced global insomnia severity, in addition to improving patient-reported sleep variables.

UI  - 17694726
TI  - Efficacy and tolerability of indiplon in transient insomnia.
AB  - Indiplon was effective in inducing sleep, increasing sleep duration, and improving overall sleep quality without next day residual effects in healthy volunteers in a model of transient insomnia.

UI  - 17653697
TI  - Short-term treatment with gaboxadol improves sleep maintenance and enhances slow wave sleep in adult patients with primary insomnia.
AB  - Acute administration of gaboxadol improves sleep maintenance and enhances SWS in a dose-dependent manner in adult patients with PI. Gaboxadol was not associated with next-day residual effects. Gaboxadol was generally well tolerated, although gaboxadol showed a dose-dependent increase in incidence and severity of AEs.

UI  - 17644419
TI  - Psychological treatment of insomnia in hypnotic-dependant older adults.
AB  - The findings support the use of cognitive-behavioral therapy for insomnia in hypnotic-dependant older adults.

UI  - 17610043
TI  - Is melatonin helpful in stopping the long-term use of hypnotics? A discontinuation trial.
AB  - Our findings do not conclusively indicate that melatonin is helpful for the discontinuation of the use of benzodiazepines, but the average dose of benzodiazepines in the group was low. Further investigation is necessary, with special attention to the possible influence of the daily dose on the facilitation effect of melatonin.

UI  - 17580596
TI  - Long-term nightly treatment with indiplon in adults with primary insomnia: results of a double-blind, placebo-controlled, 3-month study.
AB  - In patients with chronic insomnia, long-term nightly treatment with 10 mg and 20 mg doses of indiplon resulted in significant and sustained efficacy in sleep onset, maintenance, and duration, and significant associated improvement in both daytime functioning and quality of life.

UI  - 17561543
TI  - Efficacy and tolerability of modified-release indiplon in elderly patients with chronic insomnia: results of a 2-week double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - In elderly patients with primary insomnia characterized by sleep-maintenance difficulty, indiplon, 15 mg, was well tolerated and significantly improved all patient-reported measures of sleep during 2 weeks of treatment.

UI  - 17557453
TI  - Evaluation of eszopiclone discontinuation after cotherapy with fluoxetine for insomnia with coexisting depression.
AB  - In this study, eszopiclone discontinuation did not result in significant CNS or benzodiazepine withdrawal AEs, rebound insomnia, or rebound depression; and improvements in sleep and depressive symptoms were maintained.

UI  - 17557435
TI  - Tiagabine increases slow-wave sleep in a dose-dependent fashion without affecting traditional efficacy measures in adults with primary insomnia.
AB  - In adults with primary insomnia, tiagabine significantly increased slow-wave sleep in a dose-dependent manner with a corresponding significant decrease in Stage 1 sleep, whereas no significant differences were observed in wake after sleep onset, latency to persistent sleep, or total sleep time compared with placebo.

UI  - 17519067
TI  - A 2-night, 3-period, crossover study of ramelteon's efficacy and safety in older adults with chronic insomnia.
AB  - In older adults with chronic primary insomnia, ramelteon produced significant reductions in latency to persistent sleep and increases in total sleep time and sleep efficacy, and showed no evidence of adverse next-day psychomotor or cognitive effects.

UI  - 17486686
TI  - A randomized, double blind, placebo-controlled, prospective clinical study to demonstrate clinical efficacy of a fixed valerian hops extract combination (Ze 91019) in patients suffering from non-organic sleep disorder.
AB  - Valerian and hops are traditionally used as sleep aids. Since the fixed extract combination (Ze 91019) as a whole is considered the active compound, the clinical efficacy must be demonstrated for this extract combination. The present clinical study aimed to demonstrate superiority of the fixed extract combination in comparison with placebo in patients suffering from non-organic insomnia (ICD 10, F 51.0-51.2). Objective sleep parameters were registered by means of a transportable home recorder system (QUISI). The primary outcome was the reduction in sleep latency (SL2) which had to be prolonged at baseline (>/=30 min) as an inclusion criteria. The treatment period lasted for 4 weeks with either placebo, single valerian extract (Ze 911) or the fixed valerian hops extract combination (Ze 91019). The amount of the single valerian extract was identical to that amount contained in the fixed extract combination, i.e. 500 mg valerian extract siccum. In the extract combination 120 mg hops extract siccum was added. Both the extracts were prepared with 45% methanol m/m with a drug-extract ratio of 5.3:1 (valerian) and 6.6:1 (hops), respectively. The fixed extract combination was significantly superior to the placebo in reducing the sleep latency whilst the single valerian extract failed to be superior to the placebo. The result underlined the plausibility for adding hops extract to the valerian extract.

UI  - 17469890
TI  - Hypnotic taper with or without self-help treatment of insomnia: a randomized clinical trial.
AB  - This study aimed to assess the efficacy of a minimal intervention focusing on hypnotic discontinuation and cognitive-behavioral treatment (CBT) for insomnia. Fifty-three adult chronic users of hypnotics were randomly assigned to an 8-week hypnotic taper program, used alone or combined with a self-help CBT. Weekly hypnotic use decreased in both conditions, from a nearly nightly use at baseline to less than once a week at posttreatment. Nightly dosage (in lorazepam equivalent) decreased from 1.67 mg to 0.12 mg. Participants who received CBT improved their sleep efficiency by 8%, whereas those who did not remained stable. Total wake time decreased by 52 min among CBT participants and increased by 13 min among those receiving the taper schedule alone. Total sleep time remained stable throughout withdrawal in both CBT and taper conditions. The present findings suggest that a systematic withdrawal schedule might be sufficient in helping chronic users stop their hypnotic medication. The addition of a self-help treatment focusing on insomnia, a readily available and cost-effective alternative to individual psychotherapy, produced greater sleep improvement.

UI  - 17425224
TI  - Effect of short-term treatment with gaboxadol on sleep maintenance and initiation in patients with primary insomnia.
AB  - Gaboxadol 15 mg was effective and generally well tolerated in the short-term treatment of patients with primary insomnia. Gaboxadol also enhanced slow wave sleep duration and had no significant effects on REM sleep duration. These findings suggest that gaboxadol may be a useful treatment for insomnia.

UI  - 17381185
TI  - Cost effectiveness of long-term treatment with eszopiclone for primary insomnia in adults: a decision analytical model.
AB  - This analysis suggested that long-term eszopiclone treatment was cost effective over the 6-month study period, particularly when the impact on productivity costs is considered. Given the increasing interest in new pharmacological interventions to manage insomnia, payers and clinicians alike should carefully consider the balance of health and economic benefits that these interventions offer. Accordingly, additional research in this area is warranted.

UI  - 17335321
TI  - Melatonin in schizophrenic outpatients with insomnia: a double-blind, placebo-controlled study.
AB  - Melatonin may be a useful short-term hypnotic for schizophrenic patients with insomnia. Melatonin could be considered for patients in whom conventional hypnotic drug therapy or higher sedative antipsychotic drug doses may be problematic.

UI  - 17328999
TI  - The effect of placebo administration on the first-night effect in healthy young volunteers.
AB  - The first-night effect is a well-known phenomenon that is considered to result from a subject's lack of adaptation to the unfamiliar environment of a sleep laboratory and to the technical equipment used for polysomnography. The effect has been explored as a laboratory model for transient insomnia. The main characteristics of this effect are short total sleep time (TST) and rapid eye movement (REM) sleep, a lower sleep efficiency index, and longer REM sleep latency. Previous studies have reported that personality traits (such as trait anxiety) are a potential cause of the first-night effect and that the placebo effect is closely related to the anxiety levels of the subjects. To the best of our knowledge, there are no reports regarding the effects of a placebo on first-night sleep. This omission can be explained by the fact that the polysomnographic recordings obtained during the first night of a study are generally excluded from the analysis in order to avoid the inclusion of the first-night effect. In the present study, 8 male university students were subjected to polysomnographic examinations during drug-free, placebo-administration, and benzodiazepine-administration conditions in order to clarify the placebo effect on sleep during consecutive nights, particularly on the first night. The recordings for each condition were conducted for 4 consecutive nights. A placebo or 5 mg nitrazepam was administered at 2230 h using a double-blind crossover design, while no drug was administered during the drug-free condition. There was a 10-day interval between the examination of each condition. Polysomnographic recording was started at 2300 h and continued until the natural awakening of the subjects on the next morning. Subsequently, the subjects were requested to fill in a rating scale that is used to evaluate the subjective perception of sleep. An increase in stage-2 sleep associated with the first-night effect was observed on the first night during the drug-free and placebo-administration conditions. However, REM sleep reduction associated with the first-night effect was detected on the first night during the drug-free condition; this decrease in REM sleep was counteracted by the placebo during the placebo-administration condition. The nitrazepam, but not the placebo, decreased both slow-wave sleep (SWS) and REM sleep. The values for the tendency to fall asleep, feeling refreshed upon awakening in the morning, and the tension upon awakening in the morning were improved to a greater extent by the placebo and nitrazepam administrations than when no drug was administered. These results demonstrate the possibility that placebo administration may have a hypnotic/anxiolytic effect and may improve transient insomnia without causing SWS and REM sleep reductions.

UI  - 17304148
TI  - High plasma concentrations of paroxetine impede clinical response in patients with panic disorder.
AB  - Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors are thought to interact with serotonergic neurons and be effective for treatment of panic disorder. In the present study, the authors investigated an association between plasma concentrations of paroxetine in patients with panic disorder and clinical response to initial treatment with paroxetine. Subjects were 21 unrelated Japanese patients who fulfilled DSM-IV-TR criteria for a diagnosis of panic disorder (6 males, 15 females, mean age 35.9 +/- 11.3 years). Subjects were administered 10 mg/day of paroxetine for 2 weeks as initial treatment. Improvement of the symptoms of the disorder was assessed with the Panic and Agoraphobia Scale (PAS). In the range of plasma levels >20 ng/mL, none of the subjects showed the reduction ratio in PAS score >0.2. The subjects whose plasma concentrations of paroxetine were less than 20 ng/mL had a significantly higher mean reduction ratio in PAS score than the subjects whose plasma concentrations of paroxetine were >20 ng/mL. Multiple regression analysis showed that the plasma concentration of paroxetine was the only significant factor and accounted for 28.0% of the variability in the reduction ratio of PAS score of the subjects. The final model of correlation was: reduction ratio in PAS score = 0.423 - 0.009 x (plasma concentrations of paroxetine) (R = 0.529, P = 0.014, coefficient of determination (R2) = 0.280). Assuming that the reduction ratio in PAS score was 0.2 in the equation above, plasma concentration of paroxetine is calculated to be about 25 ng/mL, which is suggested to be the upper end of the therapeutic window for the initial phase of the treatment with paroxetine for panic disorder.

UI  - 17294232
TI  - Safety of ramelteon in individuals with mild to moderate obstructive sleep apnea.
AB  - Ramelteon is a selective MT(1)/MT(2)-receptor agonist indicated for insomnia treatment. Because it has no depressant effects on the nervous system, it is not expected to affect the control of breathing. The potential effects of ramelteon on apneic and hypopneic events and arterial oxygen saturation (SaO(2)) in individuals with obstructive sleep apnea were assessed. In this double-blind, randomized, crossover study, 26 adults with mild to moderate obstructive sleep apnea received ramelteon 16 mg and placebo for one night each, with a 5- to 12-day washout period between treatments. Treatments were administered 30 min before habitual bedtime. Respiratory effort was monitored using respiratory inductance plethysmography, SaO(2) was measured by pulse oximetry, and sleep onset and duration were measured by polysomnography and post-sleep questionnaire. Post-sleep questionnaire also measured next-day residual effects. The primary measure was apnea-hypopnea index. Apnea-hypopnea index was similar in ramelteon and placebo groups (11.4 vs 11.1, respectively; CI = -2.1, 2.6, P = 0.812). Ramelteon had no effect on the number of central, obstructive, or mixed apnea episodes. No significant differences were observed in SaO(2) for the entire night between ramelteon and placebo (95.1 vs 94.7%; P = 0.070). Ramelteon did not meaningfully affect sleep when evaluated by polysomnography and post-sleep questionnaire. Compared with placebo, ramelteon had no significant effect on next-day residual effects. Adverse events were reported by three subjects in the ramelteon group: headache (n = 2) and urinary tract infection (n = 1). No adverse events were reported with placebo. Ramelteon was well-tolerated and, as expected, did not worsen sleep apnea when administered to subjects with mild to moderate obstructive sleep apnea.

UI  - 17242627
TI  - Effect of melatonin on sleep, behavior, and cognition in ADHD and chronic sleep-onset insomnia.
AB  - Melatonin advanced circadian rhythms of sleep-wake and endogenous melatonin and enhanced total time asleep in children with ADHD and chronic sleep onset insomnia; however, no effect was found on problem behavior, cognitive performance, or quality of life.

UI  - 17138773
TI  - Eszopiclone in patients with insomnia during perimenopause and early postmenopause: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - I.

UI  - 17130411
TI  - Pregabalin in central neuropathic pain associated with spinal cord injury: a placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - Pregabalin 150 to 600 mg/day was effective in relieving central neuropathic pain, improving sleep, anxiety, and overall patient status in patients with spinal cord injury.

UI  - 16968566
TI  - A polysomnography study of eszopiclone in elderly patients with insomnia.
AB  - In this study, eszopiclone was well tolerated and produced significant improvements in both polysomnographic and patient-reported measures of sleep maintenance, sleep induction, and sleep duration in elderly patients with chronic primary insomnia.

UI  - 16944674
TI  - Effect of zolpidem on the efficacy of continuous positive airway pressure as treatment for obstructive sleep apnea.
AB  - Acute administration of zolpidem 10 mg does not impair the efficacy of an effective level of CPAP in patients with severe obstructive sleep apnea.

UI  - 16943177
TI  - Paroxetine treatment of primary insomnia in older adults.
AB  - Paroxetine appears to be ineffective for treating primary insomnia in old age.

UI  - 16881381
TI  - A comparison of transdermal and oral HRT for menopausal symptom control.
AB  - Transdermal HT performed significantly better than oral HT in menopausal symptom control. Reservoir patch was unsuitable in tropical climate where matrix patch and gel performed better.

UI  - 16848645
TI  - Extended-release bupropion for patients with major depressive disorder presenting with symptoms of reduced energy, pleasure, and interest: findings from a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study.
AB  - Bupropion XL was effective and well tolerated in MDD patients with decreased energy, pleasure, and interest.

UI  - 16815744
TI  - Efficacy and safety of zolpidem-MR: a double-blind, placebo-controlled study in adults with primary insomnia.
AB  - Zolpidem-MR 12.5mg is effective and safe in treating primary insomnia in adults and improves sleep maintenance, induction and duration of sleep.

UI  - 16785771
TI  - Comparison of sleep condition and sleep-related psychological activity after cognitive-behavior and pharmacological therapy for chronic insomnia.
AB  - Medication and Combined therapy produced a short-term effect on chronic insomnia while CBT had a long-term effect of improved sleep-related psychological activity and daytime functioning.

UI  - 16776928
TI  - [Effects of midazolam and estazolam as hypnotics in hypertensive patients with chronic insomnia: a multicentre, open labeled, randomized clinical trial].
AB  - It is safe to take midazolam or estazolam for hypertensive patients with chronic insomnia and both drugs reduced blood pressure. Midazolam is superior to estazolam in shortening sleep latency, reducing awakening frequency, improving objective sleep evaluation and decreasing daytime sleepiness.

UI  - 16709464
TI  - Effects of ramelteon on patient-reported sleep latency in older adults with chronic insomnia.
AB  - In older adults with chronic insomnia, ramelteon significantly reduced patient reports of sleep latency over five weeks of treatment with no significant rebound insomnia or withdrawal effects.

UI  - 16696581
TI  - Zolpidem extended-release.
AB  - Zolpidem extended-release, or controlled-release (CR), is a new formulation of zolpidem, a nonbenzodiazepine hypnotic. It is indicated in the US for the treatment of insomnia, characterised by difficulties with sleep onset and/or sleep maintenance. Zolpidem CR is a dual-layered tablet; one layer releases zolpidem immediately and a second layer provides a slower release of additional zolpidem for maintenance of plasma zolpidem concentrations. Efficacy of zolpidem CR was assessed in two 3-week, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, phase III polysomnography trials in younger adult (aged 18-64 years) or elderly (aged > or =65 years) patients with primary insomnia. Patients received nightly zolpidem CR (12.5mg in younger adult and 6.25mg in elderly patients). Efficacy was assessed objectively on nights 1, 2, 15 and 16. Patients who received zolpidem CR had significantly improved objective latency to persistent sleep, wake time after sleep onset and sleep efficiency on assessment nights compared with placebo recipients. In subjective assessments of sleep quality on day 2 and nights 15 and 22, significantly more zolpidem CR than placebo recipients gave favourable responses on a Patient Global Impression scale in the study in younger adult patients. In the other study, significantly more elderly patients in the zolpidem CR group rated their sleep as improved compared with the placebo group. Zolpidem CR was generally well tolerated and appears to have a tolerability profile similar to that of the original formulation of zolpidem.

UI  - 16670647
TI  - Sleep hygiene and melatonin treatment for children and adolescents with ADHD and initial insomnia.
AB  - Combined sleep hygiene and melatonin was a safe and effective treatment for initial insomnia in children with ADHD taking stimulant medication.

UI  - 16608114
TI  - [Efficacy of donormil in the treatment of insomnia in patients with vascular encephalopathy].
AB  - 

UI  - 16581036
TI  - Eszopiclone co-administered with fluoxetine in patients with insomnia coexisting with major depressive disorder.
AB  - In this study, eszopiclone/fluoxetine co-therapy was relatively well tolerated and associated with rapid, substantial, and sustained sleep improvement, a faster onset of antidepressant response on the basis of CGI, and a greater magnitude of the antidepressant effect.

UI  - 16579091
TI  - Clinical observation on intractable insomnia treated by point pressure in 42 cases.
AB  - 

UI  - 16553019
TI  - Effect of tiagabine on sleep in elderly subjects with primary insomnia: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study.
AB  - In elderly subjects with primary insomnia, tiagabine did not have a significant effect on wake after sleep onset, latency to persistent sleep, total sleep time, or the subjective rating of sleep. Tiagabine 4, 6, and 8 mg significantly increased slow-wave sleep, with a corresponding significant decrease in Stage 1 sleep. Tiagabine was generally well tolerated, with doses of less than 6 mg having tolerability profiles generally similar to that of placebo. The 8-mg dose, however, was associated with troublesome adverse events, residual effects, and reduced alertness.

UI  - 16491981
TI  - Polysomnographic and symptomatological analyses of major depressive disorder patients treated with mirtazapine.
AB  - Mirtazapine significantly improved sleep quality, reversed sleep markers of depression, and reduced depressive symptoms in this group of MDD patients.

UI  - 16477959
TI  - A 2-week efficacy and safety study of eszopiclone in elderly patients with primary insomnia.
AB  - Nightly treatment with eszopiclone 1 mg effectively induced sleep, while the 2-mg dose was effective in inducing and maintaining sleep. Eszopiclone was well tolerated in elderly patients with primary insomnia, and the sleep efficacy was accompanied by significantly less napping and significantly higher ratings of daytime alertness, sense of physical well-being, and several quality-of-life parameters at the higher dose.

UI  - 16477953
TI  - Dose-response effects of tiagabine on the sleep of older adults.
AB  - Research with tiagabine at dosages of 8 mg or less appears warranted in elderly clinical populations.

UI  - 16432265
TI  - Disposition kinetics and tolerance of escalating single doses of ramelteon, a high-affinity MT1 and MT2 melatonin receptor agonist indicated for treatment of insomnia.
AB  - Ramelteon is a selective MT(1)/MT(2) receptor agonist, indicated for insomnia treatment. Safety, tolerance, pharmacokinetics, and cognitive performance were evaluated following increasing ramelteon doses. Healthy adults (35-65 years) were randomly assigned to receive 1 of 5 oral ramelteon doses (4, 8, 16, 32, or 64 mg; n = 8 per group) or placebo (n = 20). C(max) and AUC(infinity) (mean [%CV]) increased with each dose: C(max) = 1.15 (109), 5.73 (97), 6.92 (77), 17.4 (76), and 25.9 (77) ng/mL, respectively, and AUC(infinity) = 1.71 (114), 6.95 (108), 9.88 (78), 22.5 (80), and 36.1 (71 n x h/mL), respectively. Mean T(max) values of 0.75 to 0.94 hours and mean elimination half-life of 0.83 to 1.90 hours remained relatively constant. Ramelteon was extensively metabolized. Besides ramelteon, 4 metabolites, M-I, M-II, M-III, and M-IV, were measured in serum. Metabolite M-II, which has shown weak ramelteon-like activity in vitro, was the major metabolite in serum. Digit Symbol Substitution Test and visual analog scale alertness scores were similar across all dose groups and did not differ from placebo. All adverse events were mild or moderate and resolved before study completion.

UI  - 16420393
TI  - Influence of melatonin on fatigue severity in patients with chronic fatigue syndrome and late melatonin secretion.
AB  - The effect of melatonin, a chronobiotic drug, was explored in 29 patients with chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) and Dim Light Melatonin onset (DLMO) later than 21.30 hours, reflective of delayed circadian rhythmicity. The patients took 5 mg of melatonin orally, 5 h before DLMO during 3 months. Their responses to the checklist individual strength (CIS), a reliable questionnaire measuring the severity of personally experienced fatigue, were assessed twice with a 6-week interval immediately before the treatment and once after 3 months treatment. In the pre-treatment period the fatigue sub-score improved significantly. After treatment, the total CIS score and the sub-scores for fatigue, concentration, motivation and activity improved significantly. The sub-score fatigue normalized in two of the 29 patients in the pre-treatment period and in eight of 27 patients during treatment. This change was significant. In the patients with DLMO later than 22.00 hours (n=21) the total CIS score and the sub-scores for fatigue, concentration and activity improved significantly more than in the patients (n=8) with DLMO earlier than 22.00 hours. Melatonin may be an effective treatment for patients with CFS and late DLMO, especially in those with DLMO later than 22.00 hours.

UI  - 16335333
TI  - Valerian-hops combination and diphenhydramine for treating insomnia: a randomized placebo-controlled clinical trial.
AB  - The findings show a modest hypnotic effect for a valerian-hops combination and diphenhydramine relative to placebo. Sleep improvements with a valerian-hops combination are associated with improved quality of life. Both treatments appear safe and did not produce rebound insomnia upon discontinuation during this study. Overall, these findings indicate that a valerian-hops combination and diphenhydramine might be useful adjuncts in the treatment of mild insomnia.

UI  - 16309958
TI  - An efficacy, safety, and dose-response study of Ramelteon in patients with chronic primary insomnia.
AB  - Ramelteon demonstrated a statistically significant reduction in LPS and a statistically significant increase in TST, with no apparent next-day residual effects, in patients with chronic primary insomnia.

UI  - 16307045
TI  - Succinate-based preparation alleviates manifestations of the climacteric syndrome in women.
AB  - Clinical placebo-controlled study of Enerlit-Clima (bioactive succinate-based food additive) a showed positive effect of the preparation on general clinical and psychoemotional manifestations of the climacteric syndrome. A trend to an increase in estradiol level in early pathological climacteric and normalization of the endometrial status were observed.

UI  - 16265982
TI  - Chai-hu-gui-zhi-gan-jiang-tang regulates plasma interleukin-6 and soluble interleukin-6 receptor concentrations and improves depressed mood in climacteric women with insomnia.
AB  - This study was performed to compare the effects of Chai-hu-gui-zhi-gan-jiang-tang (Saiko-keishi-kankyo-to), an herbal medicine, in improving depressed mood and on plasma interleukin-6 (IL-6) and soluble interleukin-6 receptor (sIL-6R) concentrations with those of anti-depressants in peri- and post-menopausal women. Ninety patients complaining of menopausal symptoms including insomnia who were diagnosed with mood disorder based on DSM-IV were recruited and separated into two groups (Chai-hu-gui-zhi-gan-jiang-tang group was selected on the basis of SHO for 42 cases, while anti-depressants were used for 48 cases), and plasma IL-6 and sIL-6R concentrations were determined before and after three months of the treatment. There were no significant differences in the decrease in both climacteric and Hamilton depression score after treatment between the two groups. Plasma IL-6 and sIL-6R concentrations were significantly lower in the Chai-hu-gui-zhi-gan-jiang-tang group (-34.8 +/- 15.5% and -22.4 +/- 14.6%, respectively) than in the anti-depressant group (7.5 +/- 4.8% and 2.4 +/- 3.8%, respectively) after 3 months of treatment. Correlations between rate of decrease in climacteric score and plasma IL-6 (R = 0.498, P = 0.0056) and sIL-6R (R = 0.512, P = 0.0045) concentrations were observed. Chai-hu-gui-zhi-gan-jiang-tang reduced plasma IL-6 and sIL-6R concentrations in relation to improvement of depressed mood during treatment. The findings of this study suggest that Chai-hu-gui-zhi-gan-jiang-tang has the potential to decrease morbidity by alleviation of stress reactions in peri- and post-menopausal women.

UI  - 16260179
TI  - Tiagabine enhances slow wave sleep and sleep maintenance in primary insomnia.
AB  - Tiagabine increased slow wave sleep and reduced wake after sleep onset in a dose-dependent manner. Tiagabine dosages up to 8 mg did not compromise next-morning alertness and psychomotor performance in adult patients with primary insomnia. Further investigation of tiagabine doses up to 8 mg is warranted.

UI  - 16239154
TI  - Sequential combinations of drug and cognitive behavioral therapy for chronic insomnia: an exploratory study.
AB  - This study explores the efficacy of sequential treatments involving medication and cognitive behavioral treatment (CBT) for primary insomnia. Seventeen participants took part in a multiple baseline design and were assigned to: (a) medication for 5 weeks, followed by combined medication plus CBT for 5 weeks; (b) combined treatment for 5 weeks, followed by CBT alone; or (c) CBT alone. Each treatment sequence produced significant sleep improvements, but at different points in time. For the first sequence, most of the sleep improvement was obtained after the introduction of CBT, while for the other sequence and CBT alone, improvement appeared during the first weeks. These results suggest that sleep improvement seems affected by the way treatments are combined. Also, a sequence beginning with a combined treatment followed by CBT alone seems to produce the best outcome. Additional research should be conducted with larger samples to determine the most effective sequence.

UI  - 16230048
TI  - An evaluation of the efficacy and safety of eszopiclone over 12 months in patients with chronic primary insomnia.
AB  - The significant improvements in sleep and daytime function were evident in those switched from double-blind placebo to 6 months of open-label eszopiclone therapy and were sustained during the 6 months of open-label treatment for those receiving prior double-blind eszopiclone. During 12 months of nightly treatment, eszopiclone 3mg was well tolerated; tolerance was not observed.

UI  - 16195124
TI  - Effect of melatonin-rich night-time milk on sleep and activity in elderly institutionalized subjects.
AB  - Melatonin production decreases with advancing age, leading to insomnia and changes in circadian rhythmicity. Administration of melatonin in variable doses resulting in supraphysiological or physiological night-time blood levels of melatonin has been shown to improve sleep quality in the elderly. To study the effect of low doses of melatonin, which do not affect daytime blood melatonin concentrations, night-time milk containing 10-40 ng/l melatonin was used as a drink with meals. The effect of about 0.5 l night-time milk daily on sleep quality and circadian activity was studied in elderly institutionalized subjects in two long-term double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover studies. Night-time milk was given for 8 weeks and normal day-time milk for 8 weeks with a 1-week washout period in between. In the first study, which was performed during spring with sleep quality evaluated subjectively by specially trained nurses, 70 demented patients showed only a seasonal effect on their sleep quality. In the second study performed around the winter solstice, 81 fairly healthy subjects living in rest-homes were divided into three groups, two for the crossover study as in the first investigation with a third group consuming only normal daytime milk as a control group to evaluate the effect of season. Caregivers graded the sleep quality and activity that was monitored separately for the morning before noon and for the evening after noon. In the second study, the effect of season was recognizable in the scores for sleep quality, which increased in all groups after the winter solstice. However, there were no changes in activity in the control group or in the group that consumed night-time milk during the first period of the crossover study, whereas both morning and evening activity increased significantly in the group that consumed night-time milk during the later period. Even ultra-low doses of melatonin may benefit the elderly by increasing their daytime activity.

UI  - 16189753
TI  - Low-dose trazodone effective in insomnia.
AB  - 

UI  - 16173650
TI  - Ramelteon (TAK-375), a selective MT1/MT2-receptor agonist, reduces latency to persistent sleep in a model of transient insomnia related to a novel sleep environment.
AB  - Ramelteon significantly improved latency to persistent sleep and total sleep time in this model of transient insomnia in healthy adults. No dose-related differences in latency to persistent sleep were observed, and both doses were well tolerated.

UI  - 16131287
TI  - A single-blinded, randomized pilot study evaluating the aroma of Lavandula augustifolia as a treatment for mild insomnia.
AB  - The methodology for this pilot study appeared to be appropriate. Outcomes favor lavender, and a larger trial is required to draw definitive conclusions.

UI  - 16062098
TI  - Quetiapine for insomnia in Parkinson disease: results from an open-label trial.
AB  - Quetiapine is an atypical antipsychotic with sedative properties frequently used to treat hallucinations and psychosis in Parkinson disease (PD). The objective of this trial is to evaluate quetiapine for insomnia in nonpsychotic PD patients. Fourteen consecutive PD patients with frequent insomnia and without psychotic symptoms were treated openly for 12 weeks with a single evening dose of quetiapine. The dose was adjusted according to clinical improvement and tolerance. The severity of insomnia was assessed using the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI), daytime sleepiness was evaluated with the Epworth Sleep Scale (ESS), and motor performance was evaluated using the motor section of the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS). All evaluations were done before and 1, 2, and 3 months after initiation of treatment. Total PSQI basal scores were 13.6 +/- 3.7 points. The PSQI score improved in 11 patients and was reduced by 3.8 +/- 3.9 points by the end of the study (P < 0.01). The ESS score was reduced by 4.3 +/- 3.7 points (P < 0.01). The mean quetiapine dose was 31.9 mg/day. No significant change was observed in the motor scale. Two patients were discontinued due to nonserious adverse effects. These results suggest that quetiapine may be a safe and effective treatment of insomnia in PD patients. Double-blind studies will probably confirm these findings.

UI  - 16053244
TI  - Protein source tryptophan versus pharmaceutical grade tryptophan as an efficacious treatment for chronic insomnia.
AB  - Protein source tryptophan is comparable to pharmaceutical grade tryptophan for the treatment of insomnia.

UI  - 16048734
TI  - Effect of zolpidem on sleep architecture and its next-morning residual effect in insomniac patients: a randomized crossover comparative study with brotizolam.
AB  - This study was conducted to determine the effect of zolpidem (ZOL) 10 mg orally on the sleep architecture and the next-morning residual effect in patients with non-organic insomnia (ICD-10) as compared to the effect of brotizolam (BTM) 0.25 mg orally, a widely used short-acting benzodiazepine (BZD) hypnotic in Japan, in a randomized, crossover comparative study. Fourteen patients with non-organic insomnia (3 males and 11 females; mean age of 54.9+/-S.D. 8.9 years). First three nights with placebo, middle three nights with either ZOL 10 mg or BTM 0.25 mg, and last three nights again with placebo in each session (a total of two sessions). Primary endpoints were polysomnography findings of sleep stages, sleep parameters, and sleep latency (SL) in the morning to examine calculable sleepiness as a residual effect. Secondary endpoint was sleep quality assessed by self-assessment questionnaire. At 150 min after Tmax, both ZOL and BTM significantly increased stage 2 (S2), and ZOL showed significantly longer slow wave sleep (SWS; stage 3+4) as compared to BTM. Stage wake was significantly increased by ZOL at the first withdrawal night and by BTM at the second withdrawal night. ZOL did not affect SL after rising, whereas BTM showed significantly shorter SL. Both drugs reduced the number of nocturnal awakenings and improved subjective sleep quality. The common adverse drug reaction (ADR) was sleepiness (3 patients) in each treatment. All events were mild. No serious adverse events occurred. ZOL is as effective as BTM in improving subjective sleep quality in patients with psychophysiological insomnia (PPI). ZOL has advantages over BTM in having a unique profile of increasing SWS with less next-morning residual effect.

UI  - 16025317
TI  - Next-day residual effects of hypnotics in DSM-IV primary insomnia: a driving simulator study with simultaneous electroencephalogram monitoring.
AB  - The present results corroborate studies on healthy volunteers showing that residual effects of hypnotics increase with their half-lives. The results further suggest that drugs preserving physiological EEG rhythms before and during the driving simulation test 9-11 h post-dose, such as zolpidem, do not influence next-day driving abilities.

UI  - 16010204
TI  - An internet-based randomized, placebo-controlled trial of kava and valerian for anxiety and insomnia.
AB  - The herbal extracts kava and valerian are the leading dietary supplements used in the self-management of anxiety and insomnia, respectively. There is limited evidence to support their effectiveness for these common symptoms. The Internet has been used to a limited extent for research, but it is not known whether randomized controlled trials can be conducted entirely using Internet technology. We performed a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial using a novel Internet-based design to determine if kava is effective for reducing anxiety and if valerian is effective for improving sleep quality. E-mail recruitment letters and banner advertisements on websites were used to recruit a large pool of interested participants (1551) from 45 states over an 8-week period. Participants were first asked to read study information, complete an online informed consent process, and undergo electronic identity verification. In order to be eligible for the study, participants were required to have 1) anxiety as documented by scores of at least 0.5 standard deviations above the mean on the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory State subtest (STAI-State) on 2 separate occasions, and 2) insomnia, defined as a "problem getting to sleep or staying asleep over the past 2 weeks." We randomly assigned 391 eligible participants to 1 of the following 3 groups, and mailed 28 days' supply: kava with valerian placebo (n = 121), valerian with kava placebo (n = 135), or double placebo (n = 135). The primary outcome measures were changes from baseline in anxiety (STAI-State questionnaire) and insomnia (Insomnia Severity Index [ISI]) compared with placebo. Participants receiving placebo had a 14.4 point decrease in anxiety symptoms on the STAI-State score and an 8.3 point decrease in insomnia symptoms on the ISI. Those receiving kava had similar reductions in STAI-State score (2.7 point greater reduction in placebo compared with kava; 95% confidence interval [CI], -0.8 to +6.2). Those receiving valerian and placebo had similar improvements in sleep (0.4 point greater reduction in the placebo than the valerian group; 95% CI, -1.3 to +2.1). Results were similar when limited to the 83% of participants who adhered to study compounds for all 4 weeks. Neither kava nor valerian relieved anxiety or insomnia more than placebo. This trial demonstrates the feasibility of conducting randomized, blinded trials entirely via the Internet.

UI  - 15952199
TI  - Insomnia improvement during antidepressant treatment and CLOCK gene polymorphism.
AB  - Sleep disturbances are commonly observed in mood disorders, and sleep manipulations can influence the clinical status. In the present study, we investigated the possible effect of the 3111 T/C circadian locomotor output cycles kaput (CLOCK) gene polymorphism on insomnia symptomatology during antidepressant treatment. One hundred seventy-eight inpatients were treated with fluvoxamine 300 mg/day (n = 147) or paroxetine 20-40 mg/day (n = 31), and either placebo or pindolol in a double blind design for 6 weeks. The severity of depressive symptoms was weekly assessed with the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HAM-D). We observed a significantly higher presence of insomnia throughout the trial in homozygotes for the C variant (P = 0.026). Other demographic and clinical features were found not to be related with CLOCK polymorphisms. Overall, our findings may suggest that CLOCK genotype influences the time course of insomnia during antidepressant treatment. This, together with previous findings on this polymorphism could lead to a further dissection of the complexity of mood disorders.

UI  - 15910516
TI  - Prediction of melatonin efficacy by pretreatment dim light melatonin onset in children with idiopathic chronic sleep onset insomnia.
AB  - Research has shown efficacy of melatonin treatment to advance sleep-wake rhythms in insomnia. In healthy adults, direction and magnitude of the phase shift depends on the timing of administration relative to the phase position of the circadian system. Therefore, in the present study we investigated whether in children with chronic sleep onset insomnia (SOI) efficacy of melatonin treatment in the early evening could be predicted from dim light melatonin onset (DLMO), a phase marker of the circadian system. We combined data of two previously published double blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trials in 110 participants, aged 6-12 years. Sleep was actigraphically estimated, and saliva collected, at baseline and in the third week of a 4-week treatment period with 5 mg melatonin or placebo at 18:00 or 19:00 hours. Primary outcome measures were pre- to post-treatment changes in dim light melatonin onset (DeltaDLMO), sleep onset (DeltaSO), sleep latency (DeltaSL), and total sleep duration (DeltaTSD). Melatonin advanced DLMO with +1:12 h (P < 0.001), SO with +0:42 h (P = 0.004), SL decreased with 25 min (P = 0.019), and TSD did not change significantly, as compared with placebo. In the melatonin-treated group, but not in the placebo-treated group, pretreatment DLMO was significantly related to DeltaDLMO [F(1, 29) = 7.28, P = 0.012] and DeltaSO [F(1, 25) = 7.72, P = 0.010]. The time interval between treatment administration and pretreatment DLMO (INT) was only significantly related to DeltaSO [F(1,26) = 5.40, P = 0.028]. The results suggest that in children with SOI, the efficacy of early evening melatonin to advance sleep onset and endogenous melatonin onset increases the later the pretreatment DLMO is.

UI  - 15898864
TI  - Self-efficacy and compliance with benzodiazepine taper in older adults with chronic insomnia.
AB  - Better understanding of compliance with BZD taper is warranted. Compliance with a taper program and perceived self-efficacy (SE) in being able to comply with hypnotic reduction goals was monitored weekly in 52 older adults (mean age: 63.0 years) with chronic insomnia (average duration: 21.9 years) who underwent a 10-week physician-supervised medication tapering. One group received cognitive- behavior therapy for insomnia during discontinuation, whereas the other did not. Compliant patients showed higher SE ratings at Weeks 6, 8, 9, and 10. Medication-free patients at the end of the treatment also reported higher mean SE ratings at those 4 weeks. Differences remained significant when withdrawal symptoms and sleep efficiency were controlled for. These results have important clinical implications because SE may indicate key time points when patients are experiencing more difficulty during discontinuation.

UI  - 15879586
TI  - Influence of aging on the improvement of subjective sleep quality by atypical antipsychotic drugs in patients with schizophrenia: comparison of middle-aged and older adults.
AB  - These results demonstrate that atypical antipsychotic drugs are beneficial to the quality of sleep in elderly patients with schizophrenia.

UI  - 15852440
TI  - Does modafinil have the potential to improve disrupted sleep patterns in patients with dementia?
AB  - 

UI  - 15838186
TI  - Insomnia in somatoform pain disorder: sleep laboratory studies on differences to controls and acute effects of trazodone, evaluated by the Somnolyzer 24 x 7 and the Siesta database.
AB  - Patients with chronic pain often suffer from sleep disturbances, specifically decreased deep sleep, and thus may get into a vicious circle which maintains their pain condition. Utilizing polysomnography and psychometry, objective and subjective sleep and awakening quality was investigated in 11 patients with nonorganic insomnia (F51.0) related to somatoform pain disorder (SPD; F45.4) as compared with age- and sex-matched healthy controls of the Siesta normative database. Patients demonstrated a markedly deteriorated Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index, a decreased Quality of Life Index, slightly increased self-reported anxiety (Zung SAS) and depression scores (Zung SDS), as well as an increased Epworth Sleepiness Scale and International Restless Legs Syndrome Scale score. Subjective sleep and awakening quality was markedly reduced, while somatic complaints were increased. Polysomnographic evaluation by a recently developed automatic sleep classifier (Somnolyzer 24 x 7) based on the rules of Rechtschaffen and Kales demonstrated reduced slow-wave sleep (SWS), the target variable in the present study, a decreased stage shift index, increased SWS latency and stage 4 sleep (S4) latency and an increased frequency of shifts from S2 to wakefulness (W) in patients as compared with controls. Minimal oxygen saturation was found decreased, periodic leg movements (PLMs) were increased. In the morning, patients showed deteriorated well-being, drive, mood and wakefulness. There were no significant noopsychic or psychophysiological differences between patients and controls (except for a reduced numerical memory and a slightly increased morning diastolic blood pressure in patients). Subsequent evaluation of the acute effects of 100 mg of a controlled-release formulation of trazodone (Trittico retard) in the patients demonstrated an increase in the target variable SWS, accompanied by a reduction in the number of awakenings and stage shifts. It normalized the frequency of shifts from S2 to W and reduced the frequency of shifts from W to S1, from S1 to S2, as well as from any stage to S1 and S2. Trazodone, however, also significantly reduced the total sleep period and S2 and increased the latency to S1. Moreover, the drug increased the reduced minimal O(2 )saturation, reduced the arousal index and the PLMs-in-wake index and normalized the increased morning diastolic blood pressure. In conclusion, our study demonstrated that SPD induced significant changes in subjective and objective sleep and awakening quality, which were partially mitigated by trazodone therapy. The data on the target variable SWS support our hypothesis of a key-lock principle in the diagnosis and drug treatment of sleep disorders. Our study provided the first evidence on the usefulness of the Somnolyzer 24 x 7 and the Siesta database in clinical practice.

UI  - 15820913
TI  - Relief of painful diabetic peripheral neuropathy with pregabalin: a randomized, placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - Painful diabetic peripheral neuropathy is a challenging neuropathic pain syndrome. This randomized controlled trial demonstrates that pregabalin, a new drug that interacts with the alpha2-delta protein subunit of the voltage-gated calcium channel, is an efficacious and safe treatment for the pain of this condition.

UI  - 15766306
TI  - The efficacy and safety of the melatonin agonist beta-methyl-6-chloromelatonin in primary insomnia: a randomized, placebo-controlled, crossover clinical trial.
AB  - beta-Methyl-6-chloromelatonin significantly decreases both objective and subjective measures of sleep latency in subjects with primary insomnia. Thus, these data suggest that mel-atonin agonists may exert a direct soporific effect, as previous research indicates that beta-methyl-6-chloromelatonin is not associated with changes in body temperature, heart rate, or blood pressure.

UI  - 15765254
TI  - Identifying target regions for vigilance improvement under hormone replacement therapy in postmenopausal syndrome patients by means of electroencephalographic tomography (LORETA).
AB  - Electroencephalographic tomography (LORETA) identified the right-hemispheric vigilance system as the target region of Climodien.

UI  - 15716214
TI  - Long-term use of sedative hypnotics in older patients with insomnia.
AB  - The open-label trial of long-term hypnotic therapy with zaleplon 5 and 10 mg suggests that they are safe and effective for the treatment of insomnia in older patients. Placebo-controlled, double-blind trials are needed in zaleplon and other BzRAs to confirm these results.

UI  - 15701215
TI  - Efficacy and safety of eszopiclone across 6-weeks of treatment for primary insomnia.
AB  - Patients treated with nightly eszopiclone 3 mg had better polysomnographic (through Night 29) and patient-reported measures (through Night 44) of sleep over the 6-week trial. There was no evidence of tolerance or rebound insomnia and no detrimental effects on next-day psychomotor performance using the DSST.

UI  - 15680290
TI  - An assessment of the efficacy and safety of eszopiclone in the treatment of transient insomnia in healthy adults.
AB  - In this model of transient insomnia, all doses of eszopiclone were more effective than placebo and were well tolerated by patients.

UI  - 15668596
TI  - Citalopram and fluoxetine in the treatment of postmenopausal symptoms: a prospective, randomized, 9-month, placebo-controlled, double-blind study.
AB  - Compared with placebo, citalopram and fluoxetine have little effect on hot flushes and cannot therefore be recommended for the treatment of menopausal symptoms, if vasomotor symptoms are the main complaint. Whether the improvement of insomnia by means of citalopram affects the quality of sleep needs further investigation.

UI  - 15610919
TI  - Nefazodone in primary insomnia: an open pilot study.
AB  - The present study is the first to investigate the effect of the antidepressant nefazodone on sleep in patients with primary (psychophysiological) insomnia. Following baseline assessment of sleep (polysomnography and subjective sleep parameters), 32 patients received initially 100 mg nefazodone in a single dose at bedtime; according to efficacy and tolerability, the dose could be increased up to 400 mg. Polysomnography and assessment of subjective sleep parameters were repeated after 4 weeks' administration. 12 patients dropped out, 11 of them due to lack of efficiency or intolerable side effects. In 20 patients who completed, the authors observed a lengthened sleep onset latency, decreases in stage 1 and slow wave sleep, and increases in stages 2 and REM under nefazodone. Subjective measures of sleep mirrored a clearer improvement: there was a significant reduction of the PSQI total score and all subscores except sleep latency. We suppose that the dose range chosen was too high for this patient population, thus accounting for the high proportion of dropouts and the partly unfavorable effects on objective sleep parameters. For a definite evaluation of the possible role of nefazodone in the treatment of primary (psychophysiological) insomnia, double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized studies with lower doses are needed.

UI  - 15602499
TI  - Effect of repeated gaboxadol administration on night sleep and next-day performance in healthy elderly subjects.
AB  - Aging is associated with dramatic reductions in sleep continuity and sleep intensity. Since gaboxadol, a selective GABA(A) receptor agonist, has been demonstrated to improve sleep consolidation and promote deep sleep, it may be an effective hypnotic, particularly for elderly patients with insomnia. In the present study, we investigated the effects of subchronic gaboxadol administration on nocturnal sleep and its residual effects during the next days in elderly subjects. This was a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, balanced crossover study in 10 healthy elderly subjects without sleep complaints. The subjects were administered either placebo or 15 mg gaboxadol hydrochloride at bedtime on three consecutive nights. Sleep was recorded during each night from 2300 to 0700 h and tests assessing attention (target detection, stroop test) and memory function (visual form recognition, immediate word recall, digit span) were applied at 0900, 1400, and 1700 h during the following days. Compared with placebo, gaboxadol significantly shortened subjective sleep onset latency and increased self-rated sleep intensity and quality. Polysomnographic recordings showed that it significantly decreased the number of awakenings, the amount of intermittent wakefulness, and stage 1, and increased slow wave sleep and stage 2. These effects were stable over the three nights. None of the subjects reported side effects. Next-day cognitive performance was not affected by gaboxadol. Gaboxadol persistently improved subjective and objective sleep quality and was devoid of residual effects. Thus, at the employed dose, it seems an effective hypnotic in elderly subjects.

UI  - 15600227
TI  - Sequential treatment for chronic insomnia: a pilot study.
AB  - This article explores the efficacy of sequential treatment involving medication and cognitive behavioral treatment (CBT) for insomnia. In a multiple baseline across-subjects design, 6 participants with primary chronic insomnia received 1 of the following treatment sequences: (a) concurrent combination of medication and CBT for the 10-week treatment duration (Combined); (b) medication for the first 5 weeks, with introduction of CBT at week 4 and medication withdrawal after the 5th week resulting in treatment overlap during weeks 4 and 5 (Overlapping: Medication --> Combined --> CBT); and (c) medication alone for the first 5 weeks followed by CBT alone for an additional 5 weeks (Medication --> CBT). Each sequence led to significant sleep improvements, but these improvements occurred at different times during the intervention. Participants in the Combined and in the Overlapping sequences improved their sleep during the 1st phase of treatment, whereas those in the Medication --> CBT sequence improved mostly during the 2nd phase of treatment. These preliminary results suggest that a sequential treatment is effective for chronic insomnia. In addition, the results suggest that sleep improvements are more likely to emerge when CBT is introduced, with an Overlapping sequence showing a slight advantage over the other sequences. Additional clinical trials should be conducted with larger samples to replicate these preliminary findings.

UI  - 15598474
TI  - Effect of zolpidem on sleep in women with perimenopausal and postmenopausal insomnia: a 4-week, randomized, multicenter, double-blind, placebo-controlled study.
AB  - Zolpidem 10 mg/d was effective and well tolerated in the treatment of menopause-related insomnia in perimenopausal and postmenopausal women.

UI  - 15468607
TI  - "A comparison of the effectiveness of two hypnotic agents for the treatment of insomnia".
AB  - This pilot study suggests that trazodone may be a better agent to promote longer, deeper subjective quality sleep for psychiatric inpatients with insomnia in terms of effectiveness. However, tolerability was much better with zaleplon as daytime residual side effects were less.

UI  - 15323600
TI  - Long-term, non-nightly administration of zolpidem in the treatment of patients with primary insomnia.
AB  - Over a period of 12 weeks of intermittent treatment with zolpidem, sleep continuity was significantly improved, the clinical gains were sustained, and there was no evidence of subjective rebound insomnia between doses or increases in the amount of medication used during the study interval.

UI  - 15320956
TI  - Escitalopram dose-response revisited: an alternative psychometric approach to evaluate clinical effects of escitalopram compared to citalopram and placebo in patients with major depression.
AB  - In continuation of a previous psychometric analysis of dose-response data for citalopram in depression, the corresponding study data for escitalopram is of interest, since escitalopram is the active enantiomer of citalopram and because citalopram was used as the active control. Revisiting those corresponding data, the psychometric properties of the Montgomery-Asberg Depression Scale (MADRS) and the Hamilton Depression Scale (HAMD) were investigated by focusing on the unidimensional HAMD6 and MADRS6. Effect sizes were calculated and compared for two dosages of escitalopram (10 mg and 20 mg daily) and between each of these two dosages and 40 mg citalopram daily. The results showed that the three depression scales MADRS6, MADRS10 and HAMD6 were psychometrically acceptable (coefficient of homogeneity of 0.40 or higher). In the severely depressed patients (MADRS10> or =30) a rather clear dose-response relationship for escitalopram was seen on all three scales after 6 and 8 wk of therapy. Thus, the effect size for 10 mg escitalopram ranged from 0.28 to 0.38 while the effect sizes for 20 mg escitalopram ranged from 0.57 to 0.77. This difference was statistically significant (p<0.01). The effect size for 40 mg citalopram ranged from 0.36 to 0.47, which is within the range found for 40 mg citalopram in our previous dose-response analysis of citalopram after 6 wk of therapy. The numerically largest difference between 20 mg escitalopram and 40 mg citalopram was seen after 8 wk of therapy for MADRS10 (effect size 0.71 vs. 0.37). An item analysis identified 'suicidal thoughts' to be the most discriminating item in this respect. These results for the severely depressed patients were confirmed by the patients self-reported quality of life evaluation. When all included patients were analysed, however, no clear dose-response relationship was seen. In conclusion, a dose-response relationship for escitalopram was seen in the severely depressed patients on all outcome scales after 6 and 8 wk of treatment. After 8 wk of treatment 20 mg escitalopram was superior to 40 mg citalopram, but not after 2 wk of treatment.

UI  - 15289705
TI  - Lormetazepam in depressive insomnia: new evidence of phase-response effects of benzodiazepines.
AB  - Benzodiazepines can shift the phase of circadian rhythms in mammalian species, but few data are available on their phase-response effects in humans, and on possible links between timing of administration and hypnotic efficacy. Using a placebo-controlled, cross-over design, we evaluated the hypnotic effect of lormetazepam 0.03 mg/kg and placebo in 38 inpatients who were affected by a major depressive episode. Patients were divided into three groups, receiving treatment at 18.00 h, 20.00 h or 22.00 h, respectively. Sleep and psychiatric symptoms were evaluated with self-administered scales and a sleep diary. The results demonstrate that active treatment significantly improved insomnia independent of the severity of depression, which remained unchanged. Timing of treatment influenced changes in timing of sleep observed with active treatment. Although sleep duration was equally improved in all treatment groups, patients who received treatment at 20.00 h showed an acute advance of sleep onset, with no changes in morning awakening. Patients who received treatment at 22.00 h showed an acute delay in morning awakening, with no changes of sleep onset. Finally, patients who received treatment at 18.00 h showed a non-significant trend in the same direction. These effects reverted with cross-over return to placebo. The perceived degree of improvement of insomnia was proportional to the advance in timing of sleep onset obtained with treatment. Our results suggest that the effects of lormetazepam on the subjective sleep of patients affected by a major depressive episode depend upon the timing of administration, and that improvement in subjective sleep is related to advance of sleep onset, and not to delay of morning awakening.

UI  - 15283007
TI  - The effects of modafinil and cognitive behavior therapy on sleep continuity in patients with primary insomnia.
AB  - These data suggest that modafinil may be used to diminish the negative side effects of CBT (increased daytime sleepiness) and may increase subject compliance with therapy. Whether enhanced daytime function mediates the change in adherence and whether reduced sleepiness and enhanced compliance translate to less patient attrition in the clinical setting remain to be evaluated.

UI  - 15272636
TI  - [Signopam treatment of insomnia in patients with somatic pathology].
AB  - 

UI  - 15259288
TI  - Well-being at onset of hormone replacement therapy: comparison between two continuous combined regimens.
AB  - CE/MPA 0.625 mg/5 mg is better tolerated than E2/NETA 2 mg/1 mg, and starters react differently from switchers. Side-effects occur more quickly than benefits with HRT, and are more frequent in women with previous PMS.

UI  - 15249281
TI  - Cognitive effects of exogenous melatonin administration in elderly persons: a pilot study.
AB  - Melatonin administration at a dose of 1 mg nightly may be effective in improving certain aspects of cognitive functioning and subjective reports of sleep quality in elderly subjects. It may prove to be a useful therapeutic agent in the treatment of age-related cognitive decline.

UI  - 15166685
TI  - Comparison of lorazepam and zopiclone for insomnia in patients with stroke and brain injury: a randomized, crossover, double-blinded trial.
AB  - Zopiclone is equally effective as lorazepam in the treatment of insomnia in stroke and brain-injured patients.

UI  - 15163440
TI  - Zolpidem is not superior to temazepam with respect to rebound insomnia: a controlled study.
AB  - This randomised controlled trial was conducted to compare zolpidem to an equivalent dose of temazepam with respect to subjective rebound insomnia after cessation of 4 weeks of treatment in chronic insomnia (zolpidem 10 mg, n=79; temazepam 20 mg, n=84). Both agents improved total sleep time (TST) as well as sleep onset latency (SOL) significantly during the 4 treatment weeks. Prevalence rates for rebound insomnia, defined as a worsening of TST or SOL of more than 40% compared to baseline, were 27% for TST and 53% for SOL in the Zolpidem condition and 26% and 58%, respectively, in the temazepam condition. No significant differences were found between both agents with respect to rebound insomnia, nor with respect to their efficacy or safety. We conclude that in clinical practice zolpidem has no advantages over temazepam with respect to rebound insomnia.

UI  - 15119980
TI  - Comparison of temazepam 7.5 mg with temazepam 15 mg for the treatment of transient insomnia.
AB  - The 7.5-mg and 15-mg doses of temazepam were equally effective for the treatment of transient insomnia. In keeping with current practice guidelines, initiation of treatment with temazepam for transient insomnia should

UI  - 15090930
TI  - Effects of tandospirone on "5-HT1A receptor-associated symptoms" in patients with Machado-Josephe disease: an open-label study.
AB  - Our data indicate that the patients with MJD are prone to manifest 5-HT1A receptor-associated symptoms, and tandospirone is a useful drug for these symptoms in patients with MJD, though a double-blind study is needed.

UI  - 15076015
TI  - Evaluation of actigraphy and automated telephoned questionnaires to assess hypnotic effects in insomnia.
AB  - This study aimed to explore new methodologies in insomnia research, namely whether actigraphy was suitable to show hypnotic effects over weeks in insomnia, and to compare an automated method of questionnaire data collection with traditional methods. Thirty-eight insomniacs took part in a 5-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of the effects of 2 weeks of administration of temazepam 20 mg on sleep. Outcome measures were actigraphy and daily St Mary's Hospital Sleep Questionnaires (SMHSQ). Actigraphy was performed using Actiwatch (CNT) and analysed using both the automated Actiwatch sleep analysis software and non-parametric analysis of rest-activity rhythms. The questionnaires were administered as straightforward pencil-and-paper for half of the time and an automated telephoned system for the other half. The experimental paradigm allowed within-subject comparison of traditional and automated data collection, both on and off drug. Actigraphy showed a high degree of inter-subject variability but, nevertheless, some sleep variables (Fragmentation Index, Actual Sleep Time %) showed significant improvement during drug treatment, and Sleep Efficiency and Actual Sleep Time were significantly worsened during the first post-drug week. Nonparametric circadian rhythm analysis showed no significant effect. Subjective data from the SMHSQ showed significant drug effects and there was no significant difference in scores between the automated and pencil-and-paper methods; automated data collection was slightly more acceptable to patients and minimized data entry and management. Effect sizes using within-subject and between-subject comparisons were calculated for the subjective and objective measures to inform future studies

UI  - 15022654
TI  - A randomised-controlled trial of the effects of a traditional herbal supplement on sleep onset insomnia.
AB  - The findings suggest that traditional herbal supplements may be of significant benefit to patients suffering from sleep onset insomnia while avoiding the negative side effects of commonly prescribed hypnotics.

UI  - 15022653
TI  - Valerian does not appear to reduce symptoms for patients with chronic insomnia in general practice using a series of randomised n-of-1 trials.
AB  - Valerian was not shown to be appreciably better than placebo in promoting sleep or sleep-related factors for any individual patient or for all patients as a group.

UI  - 15003439
TI  - Chronic benzodiazepine usage and withdrawal in insomnia patients.
AB  - Chronic intake of BZDs may be associated with poor sleep in this population. A progressive 15-day withdrawal did not avoid an immediate worsening of sleep parameters. But at the end of the protocol, SWS, delta count, and sleep quality were improved compared to those recorded during the chronic BZD intake, despite the lack of change in sleep efficiency.

UI  - 14994324
TI  - A randomized clinical trial comparing doses and efficacy of lormetazepam tablets or oral solution for insomnia in a general practice setting.
AB  - Lormetazepam is a short-acting benzodiazepine hypnotic which is beneficial in shortening the time to onset of sleep. The aim of the study was to assess a new formulation of lormetazepam (oral solution) in comparison with lormetazepam tablets in out-patients with insomnia. This trial was an open randomized parallel group study conducted by 30 general practitioners. One hundred and eight patients took 0.5 mg on the first night and were allowed to increase their dosage by 0.25 mg (for oral solution) and 0.5 mg (for tablets), respectively, each day and every 2 days. The patients assessed the efficacy, acceptability and tolerance of lormetazepam using a diary card and a set of visual analogue scales assessing their sleep. Over 14 days of treatment, the mean daily dose of lormetazepam was lower in the oral solution group than in the tablets group (0.78 mg versus 0.97 mg). The cumulated dose of lormetazepam was lower with the oral solution (18% reduction). No significant difference between the two groups was found in the assessment of sleep characteristics. The occurrence of side effects did not differ between the two groups. These results suggest that a unitary dose as achieved by an oral solution of lormetazepam allows easier determination of the minimal individual effective dose.

UI  - 14960254
TI  - Psychological treatment for insomnia in the regulation of long-term hypnotic drug use.
AB  - In routine general practice settings, psychological treatment for insomnia can improve sleep quality, reduce hypnotic drug use, and improve health-related quality of life at a favourable cost among long-term hypnotic users with chronic sleep difficulties. These positive outcomes appear robust over time, persisting for at least 1 year among the more treatment-adherent patients. While these benefits may be reduced among those patients presenting with higher levels of psychological distress, the present study clearly indicates that older age per se presents no barrier to successful treatment outcomes. Further research should assess the long-term clinical and cost-effectiveness of psychological treatments for insomnia among non-hypnotic-using patients, and establish the minimum psychological treatment input required.

UI  - 14960215
TI  - Psychological treatment for insomnia in the management of long-term hypnotic drug use: a pragmatic randomised controlled trial.
AB  - In routine general practice settings, psychological treatments for insomnia can improve sleep quality and reduce hypnotic consumption at a favourable cost among long-term hypnotic users with chronic sleep difficulties.

UI  - 14754783
TI  - Randomized clinical trial of supervised tapering and cognitive behavior therapy to facilitate benzodiazepine discontinuation in older adults with chronic insomnia.
AB  - A structured, time-limited intervention is effective in assisting chronic users of benzodiazepine medication to discontinue or reduce their use of medication. The addition of cognitive behavior therapy alleviates insomnia, but sleep improvements may become noticeable only after several months of benzodiazepine abstinence.

UI  - 14725822
TI  - The effects of trazodone on sleep in patients treated with stimulant antidepressants.
AB  - Trazodone is effective in the treatment of antidepressant-associated insomnia.

UI  - 14715322
TI  - Nocturnal 6-sulfatoxymelatonin excretion in insomnia and its relation to the response to melatonin replacement therapy.
AB  - Low nocturnal melatonin production is associated with insomnia in patients aged 55 years or older, and identifies patients who are somewhat more likely to respond to melatonin replacement.

UI  - 14696019
TI  - Cross-cultural validation of the Leeds sleep evaluation questionnaire (LSEQ) in insomnia patients.
AB  - The Leeds sleep evaluation questionnaire (LSEQ) is a standardized self-reporting instrument comprising ten 100 mm visual analogue scales that pertain to the ease of getting to sleep (GTS), quality of sleep (QOS), ease of awakening from sleep (AFS) and alertness and behaviour following wakefulness (BFW). Although the LSEQ has been used in a variety of populations, published psychometric data on insomnia patients are limited. The LSEQ reliability and construct validity was evaluated in 396 French insomnia patients aged 55 years and over, who were treated with placebo (2 weeks) and melatonin (3 weeks). The results supported LSEQ internal consistency, reliability and construct validity with minor differences from those of the original English version. Then the internal consistency of the LSEQ was evaluated in 257 insomnia patients (age 20-80 years) in France and Israel who, following a 1 week placebo baseline, were randomized to placebo or melatonin treatment for 3 weeks. Cronbach's alpha and Pearson's r correlation coefficients for placebo and drug treatment conditions (p<0.001 for all) supported LSEQ internal consistency in different treatment and age groups and in different languages. It is concluded that the consistency, reliability and validity of the four LSEQ domains allows them to be singled out as independent outcome variables in cross cultural sleep research and clinical practice in adult and elderly patients with insomnia.

UI  - 14673218
TI  - Confirmation of the neurophysiologically predicted therapeutic effects of trazodone on its target symptoms depression, anxiety and insomnia by postmarketing clinical studies with a controlled-release formulation in depressed outpatients.
AB  - Early human pharmaco-EEG and subsequent sleep laboratory studies identified trazodone, a 5-HT(2) antagonist and 5-HT reuptake inhibitor (SARI), as an antidepressant with therapeutic effects on its target symptoms depressed mood, anxiety and insomnia. On the occasion of the introduction of a controlled-release (CR) formulation (Trittico 150 mg retard, marketed in Austria by CSC Pharmaceuticals Handels GmbH, Vienna, Austria) in Austria in July 2000, a multi-center, open, clinical post-marketing study on the therapeutic effects, safety and target symptoms of trazodone CR in depression was carried out at 80 offices of Austrian neuropsychiatrists. 549 outpatients (63% females) of all age groups suffering from five different subtypes of depression were enrolled in the study. After a 2-week fixed dose-titration regimen up to 150 mg and a 4-week adjustment period to the optimum dose, 66% of the patients remained on 150 mg, 20% increased the dose and 11% decreased it. Only 3.7% discontinued treatment. Rating by the neuropsychiatrists based on the Clinical Global Impression showed very much to much improvement in 78.3% of the patients, and no change or a deterioration in only 3.6%. In the Hamilton Depression Scale (HAMD) a statistically significant improvement from a baseline score of 21 to a score of 14 after 2 weeks was found, and a normalization to a score of 8 after 6 weeks. Therapeutic effects were similar in the five groups suffering from different subtypes of depression and in patients with and without comedication. Self-rating by the patients based on the Zung Self-Rating Depression Scale (SDS) and Zung Self-Rating Anxiety Scale (SAS) also showed a significant improvement in the 2nd and 6th week of therapy. Evaluation of the target symptoms of trazodone by ranking the most improved symptoms identified insomnia as the most improved psychopathological item in all three scales. While in the observer ratings also suicidal tendencies and weight loss were found much improved, in the self-rated Zung SDS sadness and loss of drive came second and third in the improvement ranking, in the self-rated Zung SAS anxiety and the feeling of falling apart. Tolerability was very good. In the 2nd week only 16.9% and in the 6th week only 7.6% of the patients reported side effects, mostly characterized by tiredness and rarely by nausea and vertigo. The present clinical study is in agreement with previous studies identifying trazodone as a safe and effective antidepressant, specifically regarding its target symptoms insomnia, depression and anxiety. It also confirms our own early predictions based on neurophysiological investigations concerning the mode of action of the drug.

UI  - 14658972
TI  - Comparative effects of mirtazapine and fluoxetine on sleep physiology measures in patients with major depression and insomnia.
AB  - These data demonstrate the differential effects of mirtazapine and fluoxetine, with significant improvement in favor of mirtazapine, on objective sleep parameters in MDD patients with insomnia.

UI  - 14655910
TI  - Sustained efficacy of eszopiclone over 6 months of nightly treatment: results of a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study in adults with chronic insomnia.
AB  - Throughout 6 months, eszopiclone improved all of the components of insomnia as defined by DSM-IV, including patient ratings of daytime function. This placebo-controlled study of eszopiclone provides compelling evidence that long-term pharmacologic treatment of insomnia is efficacious.

UI  - 14633240
TI  - Determination of the minimal clinically significant difference on a patient visual analog sleep quality scale.
AB  - The amount of change in quality of sleep (QOS), as measured by a 100-mm visual analog scale (VAS), that constitutes a minimum clinically significant difference was determined. A total of 428 patients with insomnia aged 55 years and older received placebo (2 weeks), prolonged release melatonin 2 mg (3 weeks) and then placebo (2 weeks). Sleep quality was assessed by the end of each period using the Leeds Sleep Evaluation Questionnaire (LSEQ) QOS variable and a five-point severity-rating scale. The mean difference between current and preceding VAS scores in patients improving or worsening by 1 point was 13 mm (95% CI 11-16). Correlation analysis indicated that a change of 1 point was associated with a mean change of 10.3 mm on the VAS. In conclusion, a change of 10 mm change in the 100-mm VAS QOS variable of the LSEQ, signifies an important change in patients' sleep quality.

UI  - 14609970
TI  - Discontinuation of benzodiazepines among older insomniac adults treated with cognitive-behavioural therapy combined with gradual tapering: a randomized trial.
AB  - A combination of cognitive-behavioural therapy and benzodiazepine tapering was superior to tapering alone in the management of patients with insomnia and chronic benzodiazepine use. The beneficial effects were sustained for up to 1 year. Applying this multidisciplinary approach in the community could help reduce benzodiazepine use by older people.

UI  - 14607350
TI  - Effects of after-midnight intake of zolpidem and temazepam on driving ability in women with non-organic insomnia.
AB  - 5.5 h after drug administration there were no major differences in psychomotor performances between both zolpidem and temazepam compared to placebo, which indicates the absence of significant residual effects at that time. However, certain patients were more susceptible than others to the drug effects (two patients with high number of collisions). This underlines the necessity to strongly advocate against the late intake of hypnotics if patients intend to drive a car early the next morning.

UI  - 14566165
TI  - Melatonin improves health status and sleep in children with idiopathic chronic sleep-onset insomnia: a randomized placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - Melatonin improves health status and advances the sleep-wake rhythm in children with idiopathic chronic sleep-onset insomnia.

UI  - 13680082
TI  - The sleep-improving effects of doxepin are paralleled by a normalized plasma cortisol secretion in primary insomnia. A placebo-controlled, double-blind, randomized, cross-over study followed by an open treatment over 3 weeks.
AB  - The results implicate that the sleep-improving effects of doxepin are mediated at least in part by a normalization of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis functions. Although in some patients rebound insomnia and specific side effects must be considered, our findings give a further rationale for the use of antidepressants in the treatment of primary insomnia.

UI  - 12972720
TI  - Zaleplon improves sleep quality in maintenance hemodialysis patients.
AB  - This study suggests that ZAL has a positive effect on the sleep quality in MHD patients. The absence of side effects and its pharmacodynamic properties make ZAL a useful drug in uremic patients.

UI  - 12959427
TI  - Brief report: melatonin facilitates sleep in individuals with mental retardation and insomnia.
AB  - Mentally retarded people typically exhibit poor sleep efficiency and reduced nocturnal plasma melatonin levels. The daytime administration of oral melatonin to those people, in doses that raise their plasma melatonin levels to the nocturnal range, can accelerate sleep onset. We examined the ability of similar, physiological doses to restore nighttime melatonin levels and sleep efficiency in mentally retarded subjects with sleep deficits. In a double-blind, placebo-controlled study, mentally retarded subjects (n = 20) received, in randomized order, a placebo and two melatonin doses (0.1, and 3.0 mg) orally 30 minutes before bedtime for a week. Treatments were separated by 1-week washout periods. Sleep data were obtained by polysomnography on the last three nights of each treatment period. The physiologic melatonin dose (0.3 mg) restored sleep efficiency (p < 0.0001), acting principally in the midthird of the night; it also elevated plasma melatonin levels (p < 0.0008) to normal. The lowest dose (0.1 mg) also improved sleep.

UI  - 12950711
TI  - Open pilot study of gabapentin versus trazodone to treat insomnia in alcoholic outpatients.
AB  - Alcohol-dependent outpatients with persisting insomnia were treated with either gabapentin or trazodone. Patients were assessed at baseline and after 4-6 weeks on medication using the Sleep Problems Questionnaire (SPQ). Of 55 cases initially treated, 9% dropped out due to morning drowsiness. Of the remaining 50 cases, 34 were treated with gabapentin (mean dose +/- SD = 888 +/- 418 mg) at bedtime and 16 were treated with trazodone (105 +/- 57 mg) at bedtime. Both groups improved significantly on the SPQ but the gabapentin group improved significantly more than the trazodone group. Controlled studies are warranted to replicate these findings.

UI  - 12948801
TI  - CAP variables and arousals as sleep electroencephalogram markers for primary insomnia.
AB  - PSG investigation extended to CAP variables and EEG arousals can be an important procedure for the diagnosis of primary insomnia and evaluation of treatment efficacy.

UI  - 12920414
TI  - Double-blind, placebo-controlled study of the efficacy of trazodone in alcohol post-withdrawal syndrome: polysomnographic and clinical evaluations.
AB  - Alcohol detoxification is accompanied by sustained difficulties in sleep initiation and maintenance. These difficulties are thought to be an important cause of relapse to alcohol use. However, the treatment of sleep problems with hypnotic drug is made difficult by cross-tolerance between benzodiazepines and alcohol. In this report, we evaluated the capacity of trazodone (TRZ), a second-generation antidepressant with anxiolytic and sedative properties, to increase the sleep efficiency in alcohol-dependent patients after detoxification. Sixteen patients completed the TRZ (n = 8) or the placebo (PL; n = 8) treatment arms. Polysomnographies were performed at baseline, after the 1st drug dose, and after 4 weeks of treatment. The main outcome was sleep efficiency. Secondary outcomes included changes in other sleep parameters, Hamilton Depression Rating and Clinical Global Impression scales. Sleep efficiency was increased in the TRZ group when it was computed after sleep onset, both immediately after 1st administration of the drug and after 4 weeks of treatment. No benefit was observed in the PL group. Sleep improvement under TRZ also included the number of awakenings, intermittent wake sleep time, and non-rapid eye movement sleep. Hamilton and Clinical Global scales were better for the TRZ group. TRZ is thus a potential option in the treatment of alcohol post-withdrawal insomnia.

UI  - 12858323
TI  - Preference of insomniac patients between a single dose of zolpidem 10 mg versus zaleplon 10 mg.
AB  - We assessed the preference of insomniac patients between a single dose of 10 mg zolpidem or zaleplon, respectively, administered in random order on two consecutive nights. Fifty-three patients (mean age 52.2 years, 51% females) with a history of recurrent episodes of insomnia and currently complaining of difficulties in falling asleep were included into a randomized, double-blind, cross-over study by 12 general practitioners. After each night, the patients were asked to fill in a sleep questionnaire and visual analogue scales (VAS) to subjectively assess both the quality of sleep (in the morning) and the quality of the day (in the evening). After the second study night, patients' self-assessed preference was established through a drug preference questionnaire. 62% of patients preferred zolpidem, while 38% preferred zaleplon (p = 0.08). The quality of sleep items getting to sleep and quality of sleep were significantly more improved after zolpidem (p = 0.03 and p < 0.0001, respectively). On the VAS, subjective sleep quality was significantly better after zolpidem (p < 0.0001). Diurnal awakeness and quality of day life were satisfying in both groups, without significant difference. The subjective total duration of sleep was 8.0 h for zolpidem and 8.1 h for zaleplon (n.s.). Safety was good and similar between the two drugs. Insomniac patients tended to prefer zolpidem to zaleplon on both nocturnal and diurnal assessments. These results provide additional information for the physician's choice, based on the patient's preference for a given drug.

UI  - 12790159
TI  - Treatment of primary insomnia with melatonin: a double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover study.
AB  - Melatonin did not produce any sleep benefit in this sample of patients with primary insomnia.

UI  - 12783318
TI  - Melatonin for treatment of sleeping disorders in children with attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder: a preliminary open label study.
AB  - 

UI  - 12774477
TI  - [A new approach to the treatment of sleep disorders in patients with cerebrovascular diseases].
AB  - A positive result has been obtained in treating sleep disorders in patients with chronic vascular affections of the brain with using the drugs donormyl and sonnate-KM [symbol: see text]. Donormyl is recommended for use in sleep disturbances (not very prolonged and not profound insomnia) in a 10-day therapeutic course as a first-choice drug.

UI  - 12728122
TI  - Medication use in the treatment of pediatric insomnia: results of a survey of community-based pediatricians.
AB  - The practice of prescribing or recommending sedatives and hypnotics for pediatric insomnia is common among community-based pediatricians, especially among special needs patients. An empirically based approach to the use of these medications is needed.

UI  - 12718572
TI  - Melatonin-controlled release - neurim pharmaceuticals. Circadin, melatonin-prolonged release, melatonin-sustained release.
AB  - 

UI  - 12707429
TI  - Pregabalin for the treatment of postherpetic neuralgia: a randomized, placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - Treatment of PHN with pregabalin is safe, efficacious in relieving pain and sleep interference, and associated with greater global improvement than treatment with placebo.

UI  - 12615559
TI  - Does melatonin improve sleep in older people? A randomised crossover trial.
AB  - 5 mg of fast release melatonin taken at bedtime does not improve the quality of sleep in older people with age-related sleep maintenance problems.

UI  - 12607573
TI  - Zolpidem "as needed" versus continuous administration: Pan-European study results.
AB  - 

UI  - 12607572
TI  - Polysomnographic findings during non-continuous administration of zolpidem.
AB  - 

UI  - 12607571
TI  - Zolpidem "as needed" for the treatment of primary insomnia: a double-blind, placebo-controlled study.
AB  - 

UI  - 12568976
TI  - Efficacy and tolerability of valerian extract LI 156 compared with oxazepam in the treatment of non-organic insomnia--a randomized, double-blind, comparative clinical study.
AB  - Patients aged 18 to 73 years and diagnosed with non-organic insomnia according to ICD-10 (F 51.0) were treated in a multicentre, double-blind, randomised parallel group comparison with either 600 mg/die valerian extract LI 156 (Sedonium) or 10 mg/die oxazepam taken for 6 weeks. A total of 202 outpatients with a mean duration of insomnia of 3.5 months at baseline were included at 24 study centres (general practices) in Germany. - Sleep quality (SQ) after 6 weeks measured by the Sleep Questionnaire B (SF-B; CIPS 1996) showed that 600 mg/die valerian extract LI 156 was at least as efficacious as a treatment with 10 mg/die oxazepam. Both treatments markedly increased sleep quality compared with baseline (p <0.01). The other SF-B subscales, i.e. feeling of refreshment after sleep (GES), psychic stability in the evening (PSYA), psychic exhaustion in the evening (PSYE), psychosomatic symptoms in the sleep phase (PSS), dream recall (TRME), and duration of sleep confirmed similar effects of both treatments. Clinical Global Impressions scale (CGI) and Global Assessment of Efficacy by investigator and patient, again, showed similar effects of both treatments. Adverse events occurred in 29 patients (28.4%) receiving valerian extract LI 156 and 36 patients (36.0%) under oxazepam, and were all rated mild to moderate. No serious adverse drug reactions were reported in either group. Most patients assessed their respective treatment as very good (82.8% in the valerian group, 73.4% in the oxazepam group). During the 6 week treatment phase Valerian extract LI 156 (Sedonium) 600 mg/die showed a comparable efficacy to 10 mg/die oxazepam in the therapy of non-organic insomnia.

UI  - 12532318
TI  - Adverse effects of temazepam in older adults with chronic insomnia.
AB  - Temazepam is a safe hypnotic for use by older adults over an 8-week treatment period. There are few adverse effects and behavioural tolerance to those effects develop over time. The addition of cognitive-behavioural intervention reduced both the amount of medication used and the incidence of adverse effects, with comparable sleep improvements.

UI  - 12532317
TI  - Are there gender differences in the prescribing of hypnotic medications for insomnia?
AB  - Gender differences in the prescribing patterns of general classes of medications for insomnia were examined. The classes of medications included: zopiclone, antidepressants, benzodiazepines, antihistamines and no medication. The sample comprised a sub-set of respondents from 2620 questionnaires of the Canadian Multicentre Sleep Database. Respondents for this database were contacted through physicians, announcements in the media and local pharmacies. The results indicated that gender alone was not associated with differential prescribing for insomnia, nor was gender associated with patterns of medication use such as frequency of taking medication, length of use, taking more or less medication than prescribed or attempts to stop taking medication. Demographic factors were included in the analysis and age and marital status were associated with different prescribing patterns for men and women with insomnia. It is possible that physicians refer to stereotypic expectations when prescribing hypnotics.

UI  - 12505552
TI  - Predicting longer-term outcomes following psychological treatment for hypnotic-dependent chronic insomnia.
AB  - In routine clinical practice settings, higher anxiety and a less positive attitude towards symptom control were associated with poorer treatment response. Adherence and attrition show a different pattern of associations, with greater need (as indexed by insomnia severity) predicting higher levels of service uptake and poorer general health predicting a higher likelihood of dropout.

UI  - 12427399
TI  - Clinical equivalence of intranasal estradiol and oral estrogens for postmenopausal symptoms.
AB  - In conclusion, pulsed estrogen therapy using Aerodiol is safe, easily used and highly efficient in alleviating postmenopausal symptoms with a dose of 300 microg. The dose of 300 microg in one administration per day offers the optimal therapy whilst being easily adaptable to each patient's clinical response.

UI  - 12237787
TI  - Trimipramine in primary insomnia: results of a polysomnographic double-blind controlled study.
AB  - In recent years, sedating antidepressants have been increasingly used to treat primary insomnia. Up to now, only one open pilot study with trimipramine and one double-blind placebo-controlled study with doxepin have provided scientific support for this approach in treating primary insomnia. In order to test the hypothesis that sedating antidepressants are useful in the treatment of primary insomnia, the effect of trimipramine on objectively and subjectively measured parameters of sleep was investigated in a double-blind placebo- and lormetazepam-controlled study in a sample of 55 patients with primary insomnia attending outpatient sleep-disorder clinics. Trimipramine was selected since it has shown positive effects on sleep continuity with a lack of REM sleep suppression in studies on depressed patients and in one pilot study on patients with primary insomnia. Trimipramine at an average dose of 100 mg over a period of 4 weeks significantly enhanced sleep efficiency, but not total sleep time (which had been the primary target variable) compared to placebo as measured by polysomnography. Changes in objective sleep parameters were paralleled by changes in subjective sleep parameters. Trimipramine did not suppress REM sleep. Lormetazepam decreased wake time and sleep stage 3 and increased REM sleep compared to placebo. After switching trimipramine to placebo, sleep parameters returned to baseline. There was no evidence of any rebound effect from trimipramine. Side effects from trimipramine were only marginal. This first double-blind placebo-controlled study with trimipramine suggests its efficacy in the treatment of primary insomnia. However, due to the large intra- and interindividual variance in the parameters of interest before and during treatment a larger sample size would have been necessary to strengthen the validity of our findings.

UI  - 12128237
TI  - Is extended clonazepam cotherapy of fluoxetine effective for outpatients with major depression?
AB  - Extended clonazepam cotherapy of fluoxetine appeared safe and effective for depressed outpatients: it was superior to fluoxetine alone early in treatment and again following fluoxetine dose increase. Cotherapy might be considered at the start of fluoxetine treatment, especially for those with insomnia, and when a dose increase of fluoxetine is anticipated.

UI  - 12074370
TI  - Are changes in beliefs and attitudes about sleep related to sleep improvements in the treatment of insomnia?
AB  - Dysfunctional beliefs and attitudes about sleep are presumed to play an important mediating role in perpetuating insomnia. The present study evaluated the impact of cognitive-behavioral and pharmacological treatments for insomnia on sleep-related beliefs and attitudes and the relationship between those changes and sleep improvements. The participants were older adults with chronic and primary insomnia. They received cognitive-behavior therapy (CBT), pharmacotherapy (PCT), combined CBT+PCT (COMB), or a medication placebo (PLA). In addition to daily sleep diaries and sleep laboratory measures, the participants completed the dysfunctional beliefs and attitudes about sleep scale (DBAS) at baseline and posttreatment, and at 3-, 12- and 24-month follow-up assessments. The results showed that CBT and COMB treatments produced greater improvements of beliefs and attitudes about sleep at posttreatment than PCT and PLA. Reductions of DBAS scores were significantly correlated with improvements of sleep efficiency as measured by daily sleep diaries and by polysomnography. In addition, more adaptive beliefs and attitudes about sleep at posttreatment were associated with better maintenance of sleep improvements at follow-ups. These findings highlight the importance of targeting sleep-related beliefs and attitudes in the treatment of insomnia.

UI  - 12046635
TI  - "As needed" pharmacotherapy combined with stimulus control treatment in chronic insomnia--assessment of a novel intervention strategy in a primary care setting.
AB  - Discontinuous, nonnightly hypnotic therapy in the treatment of chronic insomnia is likely to offer benefits such as maintained efficacy while preventing unnecessary long-term nightly use associated with the risk of tolerance and dependence. Based on the favorable results seen in four zolpidem studies using increasing degrees of flexibility in drug intake schedule, we developed the concept further and investigated "as needed" zolpidem pharmacotherapy amended by the optional use of stimulus control in conditions close to the "real life" practice. In a prospective, observational open study in 550 primary care settings throughout Germany, 2690 patients with chronic insomnia (mean age 59 years, 66% female, 50% with pharmacotherapy pretreatment) were treated with zolpidem according to an "as-needed" (pro re nata) administration treatment schedule (up to five tablets per week, intake nights chosen by the patient), amended by the optional use of behavioral therapy (stimulus control) during drug-free nights. After the three weeks' treatment period, in two thirds of patients (63%) the weekly number of tablets used was reduced in contrast to baseline. The average zolpidem tablet number taken decreased by 28% (from 3.7 to 2.6 per week; p < 0.00001) without any significant impact on the treatment efficacy assessed through the CGI. The subjective latency to sleep onset was reduced from a mean of 74 27 min (p < 0.00001) and total sleep time increased from 5.0 to 6.8 h (p < 0.00001). Efficacy of treatment was rated as very good or good in 93% by the investigators. Adverse events were observed only in 1.2% of patients and were generally of mild nature. No serious adverse event occurred. These results underline the validity of the zolpidem "as needed" treatment concept. It is feasible in a safe and effective manner also in a primary care setting and can be amended by stimulus control. Further research is warranted on the contributions of both treatment components to effectiveness and on the efficacy and safety issues of long-term use.

UI  - 11999905
TI  - Can valerian improve the sleep of insomniacs after benzodiazepine withdrawal?
AB  - The decrease in WASO associated with the mild anxiolytic effect of valerian appeared to be the major contributor to subjective sleep quality improvement found after 2-week of treatment in insomniacs who had withdrawn from BDZs. Despite subjective improvement, sleep data showed that valerian did not produce faster sleep onset; the increase in alpha count compared with normal controls may point to residual hyperarousabilty, which is known to play a role in insomnia. Nonetheless, we lack data on the extent to which a sedative drug can improve alpha sleep EEG. Thus, the authors suggest that valerian had a positive effect on withdrawal from BDZ use.

UI  - 11981593
TI  - Nighttime versus daytime hypnotic self-administration.
AB  - This study shows that the minority of insomniacs who self-administer hypnotics during the day are physiologically aroused and the drug reduces their arousal suggesting that their daytime self-administration, like their night-time self-administration, is more consistent with therapy-seeking than drug-seeking behavior, at least for the short-term.

UI  - 11910258
TI  - Acute efficacy of fluoxetine versus sertraline and paroxetine in major depressive disorder including effects of baseline insomnia.
AB  - This study assessed whether fluoxetine, sertraline, and paroxetine differ in efficacy and tolerability in depressed patients and the impact of baseline insomnia on outcomes. Patients (N = 284) with DSM-IV major depressive disorder were randomly assigned in a double-blind fashion to fluoxetine, paroxetine, or sertraline for 10 to 16 weeks of treatment. Using the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HAM-D) sleep disturbance factor score, patients were categorized into low (<4) or high (>or=4) baseline insomnia subgroups. Changes in depression and insomnia were assessed. Safety assessments included treatment-emergent adverse events (AEs), reasons for discontinuation, and AEs leading to discontinuation. In addition, AEs were evaluated within insomnia subgroups to determine emergence of activation or sedation. Depression improvement, assessed with the HAM-D-17 total score, was similar among treatments in all patients (p = 0.365) and the high (p = 0.853) and low insomnia (p = 0.415) subgroups. Insomnia improvement, assessed with the HAM-D sleep disturbance factor score, was similar among treatments in all patients (p = 0.868) and in the high (p = 0.852) and low insomnia (p = 0.982) subgroups. Analyses revealed no significant differences between treatments in the percentages of patients with substantial worsening, any worsening, worsening at endpoint, or improvement at endpoint in the HAM-D sleep disturbance factor in either insomnia subgroup. Treatments were well tolerated in most patients. No significant differences between treatments in the incidence of AEs suggestive of activation or sedation were seen in the insomnia subgroups. These data show no significant differences in acute treatment efficacy and tolerability across fluoxetine, sertraline, and paroxetine in major depressive disorder patients. Improvement in overall depression and in associated insomnia was achieved by most patients regardless of baseline insomnia.

UI  - 11890190
TI  - Olanzapine augmentation in the treatment of melancholia: the trajectory of improvement in rapid responders.
AB  - It has been suggested that the atypical antipsychotic drugs may induce a rapid improvement in individuals with melancholic depression. This might reflect a specific or non-specific effect on mood and other parameters. To examine this issue, ten consecutive patients, for whom olanzapine augmentation was judged a clinically appropriate strategy, were asked to complete daily ratings of depression severity and component features for 1 week. Of the six rapid responders, there was a 52% group improvement in the first day and 89% improvement at 1 week. Item analyses suggested the most rapid impact was evident for insomnia, compared to a slower and linear improvement in depressed mood. Such findings may assist in an understanding of the mechanisms underlying augmentation with atypical neuroleptic drugs.

UI  - 11851645
TI  - Noise-induced sleep maintenance insomnia: hypnotic and residual effects of zaleplon.
AB  - Zaleplon (10 mg and 20 mg), administered in the middle of the night 4 h before arising, shortens sleep onset without impairing next-day performance.

UI  - 11817501
TI  - Insomnia in depression: differences in objective and subjective sleep and awakening quality to normal controls and acute effects of trazodone.
AB  - Utilizing polysomnography (PSG) and psychometry, objective and subjective sleep and awakening quality was investigated in 11 drug-free patients (five females, six males) aged 35-75 years (mean age 54.1 +/- 11.4) suffering from nonorganic insomnia (F 51.0) related to a depressive episode (F 32) or recurrent depressive disorder (F 33). as compared with 11 age- and sex-matched normal controls (five females, six males) aged 36-75 years (mean age 53.0 +/- 13.5). PSG demonstrated decreased sleep efficiency, total sleep time (TST), total sleep period (TSP) and sleep stage S2, as well as increased wakefulness during TSP, early morning awakening, sleep latency to S1, S2, S3 and sleep stage S1 in depressed patients. Subjective sleep quality and the total score of the Self-Assessment of Sleep and Awakening Quality Scale (SSA) were deteriorated as were morning and evening well being, drive, mood and fine motor activity right. Evening and morning blood pressure, the O2 desaturation index and periodic leg movement (PLM) index were increased. In a subsequent acute, placebo-controlled cross-over design study, the acute effects of 100 mg of trazodone, a serotonin reuptake inhibitor with a sedative action due to 5-HT2 and alpha1 receptor blockade, were investigated in the patients. As compared with placebo, trazodone induced an increase in sleep efficiency (primary target variable), TST, TSP and SWS (S3 + S4), as well as a decrease in wakefulness during the TSP, early morning awakening and S2. There was no change in rapid eye movement (REM) sleep with the exception of an increase in the REM duration in minutes. Trazodone also caused an improvement in subjective sleep quality, affectivity, numerical memory and somatic complaints. All respiratory variables remained within normal limits. Critical flicker frequency and moming diastolic blood pressure were decreased. The present study demonstrated that depression induced significant changes in objective and subjective sleep and awakening quality, which were counteracted by 100 mg of trazodone, thus suggesting a key-lock principle in the treatment of depression.

UI  - 11800507
TI  - Continuous versus non-nightly use of zolpidem in chronic insomnia: results of a large-scale, double-blind, randomized, outpatient study.
AB  - New treatment strategies are encouraged in insomnia and, in particular, discontinuous treatment. The aim of this double-blind study was to compare, in a large primary care population of chronic insomniacs (> 4 weeks duration) the efficacy and safety of zolpidem 10 mg 5 nights/week and placebo 2 nights/week, to that of nightly zolpidem. Seven hundred and eighty-nine drug-free insomniacs, with a Total Sleep Time (TST) of 3-6 h/night were enrolled in seven European countries. After a placebo run-in period, treatment lasted 14 days. The primary criterion was the Clinical Global Impression improvement score (CGI-II) which showed that 65.2% of patients in the continuous and 58.6% in the discontinuous groups were rated 'much' or 'very much' improved. Even though the non-inferiority test did not show the equivalence of both regimens, the difference of 7% in responder rates does not appear to be clinically relevant. Other sleep parameters such as TST, number of nocturnal awakenings and Quality of Life scales showed marked, not significantly different, improvements in both groups. Both regimens were well tolerated and no adverse event which could be related to non-treatment nights was reported in the discontinuous group. Non-nightly zolpidem appears to be a feasible and safe additional option for the management of chronic insomnia.

UI  - 11763525
TI  - [Correction of sleep disorders and efficacy of antihypertensive monotherapy in elderly patients: use of ivadal].
AB  - Ivadal treatment raises efficacy of a hypotensive monotherapy in aged patients with isolated systolic AH and insomnia.

UI  - 11731907
TI  - Polysomnographic evaluation of the hypnotic effect of Valeriana edulis standardized extract in patients suffering from insomnia.
AB  - Valeriana edulis ssp. procera, commonly known as "valeriana mexicana", is widely used in Mexican traditional medicine for the treatment of insomnia and anxiety. To evaluate the hypnotic effect and safety of 450 mg of Valeriana edulis standardized hydroalcoholic extract in patients with insomnia, a double-blind, cross-over, controlled study was carried out. Valeriana officinalis extract, at the same doses, was used as a positive control. In a sleep laboratory, polysomnographic (PSG) recordings were performed for analyzing the quantity and architecture of sleep as well as evaluating morning sleepiness, memory quotient, and side effects. The experimental procedures were conducted on four consecutive nights of 8 h each. Twenty patients were admitted. Based on the PSG results, V. edulis reduced the number of awaking episodes while both treatments increased the rapid eye movement (REM) sleep; this last parameter was better improved by V. officinalis extract. Other PSG data did not achieve outstanding statistical differences, but the clinical tendency with both treatments was to increase the sleep efficiency index. These Valeriana extracts produced beneficial effects on sleep architecture because they diminished the time of stages 1 and 2 in non-REM sleep while they increased delta sleep. Validated clinical tests showed that both species reduced notoriously the morning sleepiness, that was further improved by V. officinalis extract, and did not affect anterograde memory. In only three cases were slight side effects observed, one due to the experimental extract. Chemical analysis of the hydroalcoholic extract of V. edulis indicated that this extract contains 0.26 % of dihydroisovaltrate as the main valepotriate, and that it does not contain valerenic acid. In general, the results support the hypnotic effect and safety of acute treatment of Valeriana edulis and Valeriana officinalis on patients suffering insomnia.

UI  - 11642476
TI  - A naturalistic open-label study of mirtazapine in autistic and other pervasive developmental disorders.
AB  - Mirtazapine was well tolerated but showed only modest effectiveness for treating the associated symptoms of autistic disorder and other PDDs.

UI  - 11600532
TI  - Melatonin treatment for age-related insomnia.
AB  - Older people typically exhibit poor sleep efficiency and reduced nocturnal plasma melatonin levels. The daytime administration of oral melatonin to younger people, in doses that raise their plasma melatonin levels to the nocturnal range, can accelerate sleep onset. We examined the ability of similar, physiological doses to restore nighttime melatonin levels and sleep efficiency in insomniac subjects over 50 yr old. In a double-blind, placebo-controlled study, subjects who slept normally (n = 15) or exhibited actigraphically confirmed decreases in sleep efficiency (n = 15) received, in randomized order, a placebo and three melatonin doses (0.1, 0.3, and 3.0 mg) orally 30 min before bedtime for a week. Treatments were separated by 1-wk washout periods. Sleep data were obtained by polysomnography on the last three nights of each treatment period. The physiologic melatonin dose (0.3 mg) restored sleep efficiency (P < 0.0001), acting principally in the midthird of the night; it also elevated plasma melatonin levels (P < 0.0008) to normal. The pharmacologic dose (3.0 mg), like the lowest dose (0.1 mg), also improved sleep; however, it induced hypothermia and caused plasma melatonin to remain elevated into the daylight hours. Although control subjects, like insomniacs, had low melatonin levels, their sleep was unaffected by any melatonin dose.

UI  - 11586054
TI  - Insomnia related to dysthymia: polysomnographic and psychometric comparison with normal controls and acute therapeutic trials with trazodone.
AB  - Utilizing polysomnography (PSG) and psychometry, objective and subjective sleep and awakening quality was investigated in 11 patients (mean age 50 +/- 14) with nonorganic insomnia (F 51.0) related to dysthymia (F 34.1) as compared with 11 age- and sex-matched normal controls. Patients demonstrated decreased sleep efficiency and sleep stage S2 as well as increased sleep latency to S1, S2 and S3, wakefulness within the total sleep period, number of awakenings, S1 and REM sleep. There was no intergroup difference in REM latency. Subjective sleep quality and the total score of the Self-Assessment Scale for Sleep and Awakening Quality (SSA) were deteriorated as were evening and morning well-being, mood, affectivity and drowsiness. Noopsychic measures showed deteriorated numerical memory, fine motor activity and reaction time variability. In a placebo-controlled crossover design study, the acute effects of 100 mg trazodone, a serotonin reuptake inhibitor with a sedative action due to 5HT(2) and alpha(1) receptor blockade, were investigated in the patients. As compared with placebo, trazodone induced an increase in slow-wave sleep (S3 + 4), a lengthening of REM latency, a decrease in REM sleep and a normalization of the periodic leg movement (PLM) index. In the morning, there was a minimal increase in somatic complaints and a decrease in critical flicker frequency and systolic blood pressure. In conclusion, our study demonstrated that dysthymia induced significant changes in objective and subjective sleep and awakening quality, which were counteracted by 100 mg trazodone, thus suggesting a key-lock principle in the treatment of nonorganic insomnia related to dysthymia with this drug.

UI  - 11536390
TI  - Kava and valerian in the treatment of stress-induced insomnia.
AB  - Kava and valerian are herbal remedies, claimed to have anxiolytic and sedative properties respectively, without dependence potential or any appreciable side-effects. In this pilot study, 24 patients suffering from stress-induced insomnia were treated for 6 weeks with kava 120 mg daily. This was followed by 2 weeks off treatment and then, 5 having dropped out, 19 received valerian 600 mg daily for another 6 weeks. Stress was measured in three areas: social, personal and life-events; insomnia in three areas also: time to fall asleep, hours slept and waking mood. Total stress severity was significantly relieved by both compounds (p < 0.01) with no significant differences between them; as was also insomnia (p < 0.01). The proportion of patients with no side-effects was 58% with each drug respectively and the 'commonest' effect was vivid dreams with valerian (16%), followed by dizziness with kava (12% ). These compounds may be useful in the treatment of stress and insomnia but further studies are required to determine their relative roles for such indications.

UI  - 11518472
TI  - Survey on the usefulness of trazodone in patients with PTSD with insomnia or nightmares.
AB  - Trazodone appears effective for the treatment of insomnia and nightmares associated with chronic PTSD. However, controlled trials are needed before any definite conclusions can be drawn. The higher than expected occurrence of priapism warrants clinicians asking directly about this side effect.

UI  - 11471853
TI  - A double-blind comparative study of zolpidem versus zopiclone in the treatment of chronic primary insomnia.
AB  - Zolpidem (10 mg/day) and zopiclone (7.5 mg/day), administered at night, were compared in a 14-day, double-blind, equivalence trial on 479 chronic primary insomniacs (zolpidem, 231; zopiclone, 248) throughout Japan, with a 1-week follow-up to assess rebound. The primary endpoint was the investigators' rating of global improvement of sleep disorders. A total of 32 patients in the zolpidem group (13.9%) and 45 patients in the zopiclone group (18.1%) withdrew from the study before the end of the treatment. In the zolpidem group, 67.9% (142/209) of patients were rated at least 'moderately improved' versus 61.6% (135/219) with zopiclone, zolpidem being at least as effective as zopiclone (90% confidence interval: -1.7, 14.3). With zolpidem, sleep onset latency improved in significantly more patients (85.8% versus 77.5%) and significantly fewer patients showed aggravated sleep onset latency relative to baseline at follow-up (4.5% versus 15.4%). Significantly fewer patients receiving zolpidem experienced drug-related adverse events (31.3% versus 45.3%), with bitter taste representing 5.8% (six of 104) of such complaints with zolpidem compared with 39.9% (69/173) with zopiclone. In conclusion, zolpidem was at least as effective as zopiclone, showed significantly less rebound on discontinuation and was better tolerated.

UI  - 11465523
TI  - Doxepin in the treatment of primary insomnia: a placebo-controlled, double-blind, polysomnographic study.
AB  - The results support the effectiveness of low doses of doxepin to improve sleep and working ability in chronic primary insomniacs, although subjective effects were light to moderate, and in some patients, rebound insomnia and specific side effects have to be considered.

UI  - 11374329
TI  - Treatment regimen and hypnotic self-administration.
AB  - The data of this study are consistent with the view that hypnotic self-administration by insomniacs is therapy-seeking behavior and not drug abuse.

UI  - 11292231
TI  - Melatonin for chronic sleep onset insomnia in children: a randomized placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - To establish the efficacy of melatonin treatment in childhood sleep onset insomnia, 40 elementary school children, 6 to 12 years of age, who suffered more than 1 year from chronic sleep onset insomnia, were studied in a double-blind, placebo-controlled study. The children were randomly assigned to receive either 5-mg melatonin or placebo. The study consisted of a 1-week baseline, consecutively followed by a 4-week treatment period. After that period, treatment was continued if the parents wished so. The study's impact was assessed by measurements of lights-off time, sleep onset, and wake-up time, recorded in a diary (n = 33). Sleep onset was also recorded with an actigraph (n = 25). Endogenous dim light melatonin onset was measured in saliva (n = 27). Sustained attention was evaluated with the Bourdon-Vos reaction time test (n = 36). In the melatonin group, mean (95% CI) lights-off time advanced 34 (6-63) minutes, diary sleep onset 63 (32-94) minutes, actigraphic sleep onset 75 (36-114) minutes, and melatonin onset 57 (24 to 89) minutes; total sleep time increased 41 (19-62) minutes. In the placebo group, these parameters did not shift significantly. The change during the 4-week treatment period differed between the treatment groups significantly as to lights-off time, diary and actigraphic sleep onset, sleep duration, and melatonin onset. There were no significant differences between the treatment groups in the change of sleep latency, wake-up time, and sustained attention reaction times. Mild headache occurred in 2 children during the first 2 days of the melatonin treatment. Eighteen months after the start of the trial, in 13 of the 38 children who could be followed up, melatonin treatment was stopped because their sleep problem was solved and in 1 child because sleep was not improved. Twelve children used melatonin 5 mg, the other 1.0 to 2.5 mg. One child developed mild generalized epilepsy 4 months after the start of the trial. The results show that melatonin, 5 mg at 6 PM, was relatively safe to take in the short term and significantly more effective than placebo in advancing sleep onset and dim light melatonin onset and increasing sleep duration in elementary school children with chronic sleep onset insomnia. Sustained attention was not affected.

UI  - 11235927
TI  - Melatonin in medically ill patients with insomnia: a double-blind, placebo-controlled study.
AB  - Melatonin may be a useful hypnotic for medically ill patients with initial insomnia, particularly those for whom conventional hypnotic drug therapy may be problematic.

UI  - 11211063
TI  - A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled crossover study of the effect of exogenous melatonin on delayed sleep phase syndrome.
AB  - Melatonin ameliorated some symptoms of delayed sleep phase syndrome, as confirmed by both objective and subjective measures. No adverse effects of melatonin were noted during the 4-week treatment period.

UI  - 11168905
TI  - Lack of changes in serum prolactin, FSH, TSH, and estradiol after melatonin treatment in doses that improve sleep and reduce benzodiazepine consumption in sleep-disturbed, middle-aged, and elderly patients.
AB  - An open pilot study on the safety and efficacy of melatonin in the treatment of insomniac patients was conducted in 22 subjects (16 females), mean +/- S.D. age 60.1 +/- 9.5 years. All patients received 3 mg of gelatin melatonin capsules per os daily for 6 months, 30 min before expected sleep time. Twenty of 22 patients were on benzodiazepine treatment and they continued this treatment for part of or for the entire melatonin administration period. Serum concentrations of prolactin, follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH), or estradiol were measured by radioimmunoassay (RIA) in morning samples at the beginning and after 6 months of melatonin administration, and standard clinical laboratory tests for blood components were performed. Urinary 6-sulphatoxymelatonin (aMT6s) excretion was measured by RIA before treatment. Serum concentrations of prolactin, FSH, TSH, or estradiol did not exhibit changes after 6 months of melatonin administration, nor were any indications of hematologic or blood biochemistry alteration found. Melatonin augmented significantly the quality and duration of sleep, and decreased sleep latency and the number of awakening episodes, as assessed from sleep logs filled by the patients (first 21 days) and from structured interviews performed by incumbent physicians (up to 6 months). Estimates of next-day function (i.e., alertness in the morning and during the day) also improved significantly during melatonin treatment. The observed effect lasted for the entire period examined (up to 6 months), with 22 out of 22 patients showing improved sleep at the end of treatment. The urinary excretion of aMT6s before starting administration of melatonin correlated negatively and significantly with age, but not with the intensity of sleep the disorder or the outcome of treatment. In 13 of 20 patients taking benzodiazepines together with melatonin, benzodiazepine use could be stopped, and in another four patients, benzodiazepine dose could be decreased to 25-66% of the initial dose. The results of this open, subacute administration trial indicate that melatonin is a safe and useful treatment for sleep disturbances in middle-aged or elderly patients, either by itself or together with benzodiazepines.

UI  - 11145323
TI  - Eight weeks of non-nightly use of zolpidem for primary insomnia.
AB  - Zolpidem 10 mg is effective in treating insomnia when used intermittently, without evidence of discontinuation effects or increased frequency of pill taking.

UI  - 11145322
TI  - Conventional and power spectrum analysis of the effects of zolpidem on sleep EEG in patients with chronic primary insomnia.
AB  - In agreement with previous findings obtained in patients with chronic primary insomnia, zolpidem significantly improved sleep induction and maintenance. Moreover, zolpidem increased power density in the 0.25-1.0 Hz band during short-term and intermediate-term treatment. Nevertheless, other frequency bands in the delta range showed a relative decrease which was not statistically significant.

UI  - 11027741
TI  - Entrainment of free-running circadian rhythms by melatonin in blind people.
AB  - Administration of melatonin can entrain circadian rhythms in most blind people who have free-running rhythms.

UI  - 11008326
TI  - L-Tryptophan does not influence acute ventilatory response at moderate altitude.
AB  - L-tryptophan does not impair ventilatory adaptation to mild hypoxia at moderate altitude.

UI  - 11001237
TI  - Mirtazapine effects on alertness and sleep in patients as recorded by interactive telecommunication during treatment with different dosing regimens.
AB  - This double-blind study compared mirtazapine's effects on alertness and sleep between parallel groups treated for 2 weeks according to a fixed regimen of 30 mg at bedtime (N = 69) and one that increased in dose from 15 to 30 mg at bedtime after the first week (N = 71). These patients with depression used an interactive telephone/computer system for daily alertness and sleep recordings on self-rating scales before and during treatment. Efficacy (17-item Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression [HAM-D], Clinical Global Impression Scale [CGI]) and safety assessments were made by participating psychiatrists. Both groups' alertness ratings were subnormal at baseline and even lower after the first dose. The ratings recovered after the second dose and increased progressively to levels 18% higher than those at baseline by the end of treatment. Patients receiving the fixed dose reported earlier sleep onset and longer duration. Similar mean changes in HAM-D scores (approximately -40%) and frequencies of CGI responders (>50%) occurred in both groups. The regimens were equally well tolerated. Somnolence, the most frequent side effect, was reported by only 10% of each group during the first week and by fewer patients during the second. Mirtazapine in fixed and ascending nocturnal dosing regimens was found to facilitate sleep, but it does not generally reduce daytime alertness. The fixed regimen seems preferable because of its greater effects on sleep.

UI  - 10976549
TI  - A pharmacodynamic Markov mixed-effects model for the effect of temazepam on sleep.
AB  - By the development of a Markov model for these non-ordered six categorical data, the effect of temazepam on the sleep-wake status could be interpreted in terms of known mechanisms for sleep generation and benzodiazepine pharmacology.

UI  - 10960882
TI  - Zaleplon shortens subjective sleep latency and improves subjective sleep quality in elderly patients with insomnia. The Zaleplon Clinical Investigator Study Group.
AB  - Insomnia is a frequent complaint in the elderly population. Hypnotic agents, including benzodiazepines, with longer pharmacological half-lives have been associated with side effects, including residual sedation, memory impairment, and discontinuation effects. Zaleplon is a short-acting (elimination half-life of 1 hour), non-benzodiazepine hypnotic that acts on the benzodiazepine type 1 site of the gamma-aminobutyric acid type A (GABA(A)) receptor complex. The pharmacology and pharmacokinetics of Zaleplon suggest a safety profile that is improved over other hypnotics. The objective of this placebo-controlled study was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of Zaleplon (5 and 10 mg) in elderly (> or =65 years) outpatients with primary insomnia. This was a multicenter, double-blind, randomised, placebo-controlled 2-week outpatient study. Postsleep questionnaires were used to record subjective sleep variables: sleep latency, sleep duration, number of awakenings, and sleep quality. Zaleplon significantly reduced subjective sleep latency during both weeks of the study with both 5- and 10-mg doses. Subjective sleep quality was improved for significantly more patients treated with zaleplon 10 mg than those treated with placebo during both weeks of treatment. There was a weak indication of rebound insomnia after discontinuation of treatment with the 10-mg dose, but no significant difference in common treatment-emergent adverse events across treatment groups. Zaleplon is an effective and safe hypnotic for the treatment of insomnia in the elderly.

UI  - 10925757
TI  - Pharmacologic or behavioural therapy for elderly people's insomnia. Which is better?
AB  - 

UI  - 10899744
TI  - [Efficacy and tolerability of Baldrian versus oxazepam in non-organic and non-psychiatric insomniacs: a randomised, double-blind, clinical, comparative study].
AB  - The study showed no differences in the efficacy for valerian and oxazepam. Because of the more favourable adverse effect profile of valerian compared to oxazepam, this hypothesis should be analysed confirmatorily in an equivalence study.

UI  - 10870872
TI  - Zaleplon improves sleep without producing rebound effects in outpatients with insomnia. Zaleplon Clinical Study Group.
AB  - The efficacy and safety of three doses of zaleplon, a novel non-benzodiazepine hypnotic, were compared with those of placebo in outpatients with insomnia in this 4-week study, using zolpidem 10 mg as active comparator. Postsleep questionnaires were used to determine treatment effects on the patient's perception of sleep, as well as any development of pharmacological tolerance during therapy or rebound insomnia or withdrawal symptoms upon discontinuation of therapy. During week 1, sleep latency was significantly shorter with zaleplon 5, 10, and 20 mg compared to placebo. The significant decrease in sleep latency persisted through week 4 with zaleplon 20 mg, and was again evident with zaleplon 10 mg at week 3. Zaleplon 20 mg also had significant effects on sleep duration, number of awakenings, and sleep quality compared to placebo. No pharmacological tolerance developed during treatment with zaleplon and there were no indications of rebound insomnia or withdrawal symptoms after treatment discontinuation. Zolpidem 10 mg had significant effects on sleep latency, sleep duration, and sleep quality compared to placebo. However, a significantly greater incidence of withdrawal symptoms and a suggestion of sleep difficulty after treatment discontinuation (rebound insomnia) for all sleep measures was seen with zolpidem compared to placebo. There was no significant difference in the frequency of adverse events with active treatment compared to placebo. These results show that zaleplon provides effective treatment of insomnia with a favourable safety profile.

UI  - 10847313
TI  - Melatonin improves sleep quality of patients with chronic schizophrenia.
AB  - Melatonin improves sleep efficiency in patients with schizophrenia whose sleep quality is low.

UI  - 10800742
TI  - Melatonin add-on in manic patients with treatment resistant insomnia.
AB  - 1. A profound alteration of circadian rhythm of sleep is often a central feature in manic syndrome. Melatonin (MLT) is a main synchronizer of the sleep/wake cycle, playing a role of transduction to brain functioning of informations about periodical environmental changes, i.e. the duration of daylength. 2. In several sleep phase disorders, MLT exerts a therapeutic effect, by normalizing the sleep/wake cycle. 3. Eleven patients, 8 males and 3 females, aged 22-43, meeting DSM IV diagnostic criteria for Bipolar Disorder, Manic Type, were selected for the presence of insomnia not responding to usual hypnotic therapies (benzodiazepine). 4. All the patients were on antimanic treatment. MLT 3 mg per os was administrated at 22.30 h for 1 month, without changing the previous antimanic and hypnotic treatments. All patients showed a significantly longer duration of sleep following MLT add-on. The severity of mania showed a parallel significant decrease. 5. The results of this pilot clinical study suggest that MLT add-on can be useful in antimanic therapy to treat resistant circadian sleep alterations as well as consequently exert a global therapeutic action on the manic state.

UI  - 10761819
TI  - Critical evaluation of the effect of valerian extract on sleep structure and sleep quality.
AB  - A carefully designed study assessed the short-term (single dose) and long-term (14 days with multiple dosage) effects of a valerian extract on both objective and subjective sleep parameters. The investigation was performed as a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, cross-over study. Sixteen patients (4 male, 12 female) with previously established psychophysiological insomnia (ICSD-code 1.A.1.), and with a median age of 49 (range: 22 to 55), were included in the study. The main inclusion criteria were reported primary insomnia according to ICSD criteria, which was confirmed by polysomnographic recording, and the absence of acute diseases. During the study, the patients underwent 8 polysomnographic recordings: i.e., 2 recordings (baseline and study night) at each time point at which the short and long-term effects of placebo and valerian were tested. The target variable of the study was sleep efficiency. Other parameters describing objective sleep structure were the usual features of sleep-stage analysis, based on the rules of Rechtschaffen and Kales (1968), and the arousal index (scored according to ASDA criteria, 1992) as a sleep microstructure parameter. Subjective parameters such as sleep quality, morning feeling, daytime performance, subjectively perceived duration of sleep latency, and sleep period time were assessed by means of questionnaires. After a single dose of valerian, no effects on sleep structure and subjective sleep assessment were observed. After multiple-dose treatment, sleep efficiency showed a significant increase for both the placebo and the valerian condition in comparison with baseline polysomnography. We confirmed significant differences between valerian and placebo for parameters describing slow-wave sleep. In comparison with the placebo, slow-wave sleep latency was reduced after administration of valerian (21.3 vs. 13.5 min respectively, p<0.05). The SWS percentage of time in bed (TIB) was increased after long-term valerian treatment, in comparison to baseline (9.8 vs. 8.1% respectively, p<0.05). At the same time point, a tendency for shorter subjective sleep latency, as well as a higher correlation coefficient between subjective and objective sleep latencies, were observed under valerian treatment. Other improvements in sleep structure - such as an increase in REM percentage and a decrease in NREM1 percentage - took place simultaneously under placebo and valerian treatment. A remarkable finding of the study was the extremely low number of adverse events during the valerian treatment periods (3 vs. 18 in the placebo period). In conclusion, treatment with a herbal extract of radix valerianae demonstrated positive effects on sleep structure and sleep perception of insomnia patients, and can therefore be recommended for the treatment of patients with mild psychophysiological insomnia.

UI  - 10754428
TI  - Placebo-controlled sleep laboratory studies on the acute effects of zolpidem on objective and subjective sleep and awakening quality in nonorganic insomnia related to neurotic and stress-related disorder.
AB  - As compared with placebo, zolpidem induced a significant improvement in objective sleep quality, mainly by increasing TSP, TST and sleep efficiency and shortening sleep latencies, thereby normalizing the disorder of initiating and maintaining sleep. Deep sleep stages S3 + S4 increased (although at baseline/placebo these stages did not differ from controls), while S1, S2 and SREM did not change significantly. Subjective sleep and awakening quality as well as thymopsychic and noopsychic performance in the morning mainly showed a placebo and 'first- night effect' phenomenon in these patients. Thus, the changes induced by zolpidem were somewhat different from those after classical benzodiazepines.

UI  - 10726234
TI  - Zolpidem, a valuable alternative to benzodiazepine hypnotics for chronic insomnia?
AB  - Sleep quality and anxiety levels were examined using questionnaires and polysomnographic recordings in 22 chronic insomnia patients who regularly used benzodiazepines to treat their sleeping problems. After abruptly discontinuing their benzodiazepine medication, patients were randomly allocated to receive either a placebo or zolpidem 10 mg for 1 week, after which they entered an open extension phase, receiving zolpidem 10 mg for 3 weeks. Subjectively, sleep quality was considered mediocre during the use of a benzodiazepine hypnotic. One week after the discontinuation, an increase in sleep latency was observed in the placebo group, whereas zolpidem induced a significant decrease in sleep latency. Deterioration of other sleep variables (probably rebound) was not suppressed by zolpidem. An explanation for this could be the selective pharmacological profile of zolpidem. Polysomnographic differences between placebo and benzodiazepine and between placebo and zolpidem were not reflected by the subjective data on sleep and anxiety. Changes of sleep structure caused by hypnotics seem not always to be felt as such by patients. After 3-4 weeks of zolpidem treatment, the percentage of non-rapid eye movement-4 sleep increased significantly, corresponding with a significant subjective improvement of sleep quality. This indicates that zolpidem may restore physiological sleep.

UI  - 10682226
TI  - Lack of residual sedation following middle-of-the-night zaleplon administration in sleep maintenance insomnia.
AB  - The present randomized, double-blind, placebo and active-drug controlled, crossover study assessed residual sedation after zaleplon 10 mg, flurazepam 30 mg (as an active control), and placebo, taken during a nocturnal awakening in patients with sleep maintenance insomnia. Twenty-two healthy sleep maintenance insomniacs (11 men; mean age, 42 y) received zaleplon, flurazepam, or placebo after an experimental awakening 3.5 hours after bedtime on two consecutive nights in each of three conditions. Residual sedation was measured with sleep latency testing (5 and 6.5 h postdrug), digit symbol substitution, symbol copying, and subjective sleepiness by visual analog scale, each twice each morning. Zaleplon did not differ from placebo on any measure of residual sedation; flurazepam showed significant sedation on all measures. No residual sedative effects were detected 5 or 6.5 hours after ingestion of zaleplon during the middle of the night by sleep maintenance insomniacs.

UI  - 10665894
TI  - Facilitation of benzodiazepine discontinuation by melatonin: a new clinical approach.
AB  - Controlled-release melatonin may effectively facilitate discontinuation of benzodiazepine therapy while maintaining good sleep quality.

UI  - 10618048
TI  - Gabapentin treatment for insomnia associated with alcohol dependence.
AB  - 

UI  - 10616229
TI  - Predictors of subjective sleepiness induced by melatonin administration.
AB  - Researchers have found that melatonin substantially reduced both sleep onset latency and the number of nocturnal awakenings in normal individuals as well as patients with diverse sleep pathologies. These findings have led to an increase in the number of individuals who ingest melatonin habitually to alleviate their sleep problem. Given the widespread use of melatonin, it is important to identify the factors capable of predicting physiological states while following a melatonin regimen. The result of this preliminary analysis showed that the number of hours spent outdoors is the best predictor of subjective sleepiness while under the influence of melatonin. Specifically, the more time individuals spend outdoors, the sleepier they are when administered melatonin.

UI  - 10572343
TI  - The effects of trazodone on sleep disturbances induced by brofaromine.
AB  - The effects of trazodone on subjective and objective sleep parameters were compared to those of placebo in a double-blind design in seven patients who developed insomnia during treatment with the selective and reversible MAO-A inhibitor, brofaromine. Trazodone significantly increased deep sleep and altered the architecture of sleep in these patients. Subjectively, patients reported a better and deeper sleep. No negative interactions between brofaromine and trazodone were observed and side-effects were minimal. A low dose of trazodone may be a safe and effective agent in the treatment of MAO-I induced insomnia.

UI  - 10549683
TI  - Zolpidem for persistent insomnia in SSRI-treated depressed patients.
AB  - In this defined patient population, zolpidem, 10 mg, was effectively and safely co-administered with an SSRI, resulting in improved self-rated sleep, daytime functioning, and well-being.

UI  - 10485636
TI  - Sleep latency is shortened during 4 weeks of treatment with zaleplon, a novel nonbenzodiazepine hypnotic. Zaleplon Clinical Study Group.
AB  - Zaleplon is effective in the treatment of insomnia. In addition, zaleplon appears to provide a favorable safety profile, as indicated by the absence of rebound insomnia and withdrawal symptoms once treatment was discontinued.

UI  - 10467890
TI  - Relaxation to assist sleep medication withdrawal.
AB  - This study explores the usefulness of relaxation and gradual medication withdrawal in weaning insomniacs from sleep (hypnotic) medication. We recruited 40 volunteers from the community who had insomnia, half of whom were chronic users of hypnotics while the other half were nonmedicated. Half of all participants (10 medicated and 10 nonmedicated) received progressive relaxation. All medicated participants received a standard gradual drug withdrawal program. Medicated participants reduced sleep medication consumption by nearly 80%. Participants who received relaxation obtained additional benefits in sleep efficiency, rated quality of sleep, and reduced withdrawal symptoms. Medicated and nonmedicated participants attained comparable, improved sleep by posttreatment and follow-up. Hypnotic withdrawal was accompanied by serious worsening of insomnia, but this dissipated by the end of the withdrawal period. The psychological treatment of hypnotic-dependent insomnia has high potential for making an important clinical contribution.

UI  - 10459686
TI  - Effect of trazodone in a single dose before bedtime for sleep disorders accompanied by a depressive state: dose-finding study with no concomitant use of hypnotic agent.
AB  - This was the first dose-finding study of trazodone that was designed to be free of the concomitant use of hypnotics, in which the drug was administered in a single dose for sleep disorders combined with a depressive state. As a result, trazodone at the dosage of 50-100 mg/day improved sleep disorders, particularly at the 100 mg/day dosage. It was confirmed that trazodone improved sleep disorders combined with a depressive state when it was administered in a single dose before bedtime with no concomitant hypnotics.

UI  - 10429550
TI  - [Safety profile of zolpidem: two studies of 3805 patients by Swiss practitioners].
AB  - Evaluation and treatment of insomnia are frequent procedures in the physician's everyday practice, since many patients seek medical treatment for this condition. Knowledge of pharmacological therapeutical alternatives is therefore decisive, in order to identify the most efficaceous and safe therapy for the patient among the available hypnotics. The short-acting hypnotic zolpidem has been investigated in Switzerland in two multicenter safety studies in ambulatory practice. In the first study 8.9% (n = 125 of 1,972 treated patients), and in the second 7.2% of the patients (n = 175 of 1,833 treated patients) reported an adverse event. The most frequent events were related to the central nervous system (CNS) (somnolence, headache, confusion, vertigo); gastrointestinal and cutaneous symptoms were the most frequent non CNS-dependent effects. New, unknown or serious adverse events were not found and no specific risk factor or population at risk was identified. The safety profile of zolpidem is consistent with its known pharmacological properties, the results of previous clinical trials and the international experience obtained in large patients groups.

UI  - 10423649
TI  - Evaluation of sleep architecture and cyclic alternating pattern rates in depressed insomniac patients treated with nefazodone hydrochloride.
AB  - The standard methods of scoring sleep patterns do not ensure an accurate clinical impression of sleep quality. This is important especially in depressed insomniacs because persistent poor sleep increases the likelihood of recurrent depressive episodes. Changes in cyclic alternating patterns (CAP) in sleep have been shown to reflect corresponding changes in sleep quality. We evaluated the effects of nefazodone on CAP and standard sleep architecture in depressed insomniacs. The study was a single-center, single-blind, 6-week treatment of nefazodone hydrochloride followed by placebo withdrawal in 16 subjects meeting the DSM-IV criteria for depression who had a score of at least 18 on the 17-item Hamilton Depression Rating Scale, with insomnia-related items 4, 5, and 6 having a total score of 3 or greater. A mean daily dose of 339.1 +/- 141.7 mg at endpoint of nefazodone significantly reduced Hamilton Depression Scores from 21.7 +/- 3.0 on baseline to 5.8 +/- 5.3 (P <.05) by the end of the study. Polysomnography showed an improvement in sleep latency and sleep efficiency (P <.05), but no alterations in rapid-eye-movement or slow-wave sleep. Subjective estimates of sleep quality improved throughout the study, but CAP rates did not show a significant improvement. The disparity between CAP rates and sleep quality in depressed insomniacs is discussed.

UI  - 10399205
TI  - Testing proportionality in the proportional odds model fitted with GEE.
AB  - Generalized estimating equations (GEE) methodology as proposed by Liang and Zeger has received widespread use in the analysis of correlated binary data. Miller et al. and Lipsitz et al. extended GEE to correlated nominal and ordinal categorical data; in particular, they used GEE for fitting McCullagh's proportional odds model. In this paper, we consider robust (that is, empirically corrected) and model-based versions of both a score test and a Wald test for assessing the assumption of proportional odds in the proportional odds model fitted with GEE. The Wald test is based on fitting separate multiple logistic regression models for each dichotomization of the response variable, whereas the score test requires fitting just the proportional odds model. We evaluate the proposed tests in small to moderate samples by simulating data from a series of simple models. We illustrate the use of the tests on three data sets from medical studies.

UI  - 10220122
TI  - The use of lorazepam TID for chronic insomnia.
AB  - Patients with primary insomnia typically complain of daytime fatigue and stress and have been shown to have long latencies on the Multiple Sleep Latency Test and increased whole body metabolism. However, typical treatment strategies for patients with insomnia rarely include any component to deal with these daytime symptoms. In the present study it was hypothesized that a 24-h treatment, lorazepam 0.5 mg TID, would be superior to an evening treatment, lorazepam 1.5 mg HS, in patients with primary insomnia. In a repeated measures crossover design, 12 patients with chronic insomnia received placebo or lorazepam 0.5 mg TID in one 4-night lab stay and placebo or lorazepam 1.5 mg HS in another lab stay. Both doses of medication were effective in improving objective and subjective measures of sleep and in reducing nocturnal whole body metabolic rate. Latencies on daytime nap testing were significantly reduced from a 14-min average to an average of 10 and 12 min, respectively, in the lorazepam 0.5 and 1.5 mg conditions. Significant differences were not found on psychomotor performance. Subjective reports of anxiety and confusion were increased in the morning after receiving lorazepam 0.5 mg in the evening but tension was reduced and subjective alertness was improved in the evening after daytime administration of lorazepam 0.5 mg. It was concluded that measurement and treatment of daytime symptoms is appropriate in patients with chronic insomnia but that rebounds in anxiety near the end of metabolic activity of lorazepam may make it a poor treatment choice.

UI  - 10086433
TI  - Behavioral and pharmacological therapies for late-life insomnia: a randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Behavioral and pharmacological approaches are effective for the short-term management of insomnia in late life; sleep improvements are better sustained over time with behavioral treatment.

UI  - 10085474
TI  - Effect of melatonin in selected populations of sleep-disturbed patients.
AB  - In an open pilot study on the efficacy of melatonin in the treatment of sleep disorders, patients with sleep disturbances alone, patients with sleep disturbances and signs of depression and patients with sleep disorders and dementia received 3 mg melatonin p.o. for 21 days, at bed time. After 2-3 days of treatment, melatonin significantly augmented sleep quality and decreased the number of awakening episodes in patients with sleep disturbances associated or not with depression. Estimates of next-day alertness improved significantly only in patients with primary insomnia. Agitated behavior at night (sundowning) decreased significantly in dementia patients. In a second retrospective study, 14 Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients received 9 mg melatonin daily for 22-35 months. A significant improvement of sleep quality was found, while there were no significant differences between initial and final neuropsychological evaluation (Functional Assessment Tool for AD, Mini-Mental). The results indicate that melatonin can be useful to treat sleep disturbances in elderly insomniacs and AD patients.

UI  - 10084634
TI  - Paroxetine in the treatment of primary insomnia: preliminary clinical and electroencephalogram sleep data.
AB  - These results support the effectiveness of paroxetine in the acute treatment of primary insomnia. Further evaluation with controlled and longitudinal designs is warranted.

UI  - 10063488
TI  - Ethanol as a hypnotic in insomniacs: self administration and effects on sleep and mood.
AB  - The purpose of this study was to assess the effects of low ethanol doses on sleep and mood and to assess its reinforcing effects used as a hypnotic. Twenty healthy adults, aged 21-45 yrs, all moderate social drinkers, were studied: eleven subjects had insomnia and nine were normal sleepers, as documented by clinical polysomnography. On two sampling nights each, ethanol (0.5 g/kg) or placebo was administered before sleep in color-coded cups presented in three doses (0.2, 0.2, and 0.1 g/kg) separated by 15 min. On three subsequent nights subjects chose their preferred presleep beverage (0.2 g/kg ethanol or placebo) based on cup color and were given an opportunity for 3 additional refills (0.2 g/kg each) of the chosen beverage at 15 min intervals, yielding a total possible dose of 0.8 g/kg. Insomniacs chose ethanol 67% of nights and normals 22%. Insomniacs chose significantly more ethanol refills than normals for an average nightly dose of 0.45 g/kg and normals took significantly more placebo refills. On the sampling nights 0.5 g/kg ethanol reduced REM sleep for both groups for the 8-hr sleep period and in insomniacs increased stage 3-4 sleep and reduced stage 1 sleep during the first half of the night to the level seen in the normals. Other sleep variables were not altered in either group or halves of the night. Presleep improvements in the Profile of Mood States tension and concentration factors were also associated with ethanol administration. Thus, acutely, both sleep and mood effects appear to be associated with the reinforcing effects of ethanol as a hypnotic for insomniacs.

UI  - 9888621
TI  - The effects of substituting zopiclone in withdrawal from chronic use of benzodiazepine hypnotics.
AB  - Twenty-four volunteers (19 women and five men) with insomnia and a history of chronic use of benzodiazepine hypnotics participated in a randomized, double blind, controlled clinical trial. The study was designed to assess the effects of substituting zopiclone (ZOP)- as an hypnotic- among chronic users of flunitrazepam (FLU), and to compare the subsequent withdrawal of ZOP with placebo controlled withdrawal of FLU. During the 5 weeks of a withdrawal protocol, sleep and physiological parameters were assessed by polysomnographic measures for 11 nights and by nightly actigraphic recordings for weeks 1, 3, and 5. Subjective effects of the withdrawal process were evaluated with daily sleep diaries, and with various weekly self-report symptom checklists. Paired t-tests performed on differences in objective sleep parameters between baseline and the last weeks of the withdrawal program showed a significant decrease in sleep quality within the FLU group, but not in the ZOP group. Subjective sleep diaries consistently reflected the objectively measured changes in sleep throughout the withdrawal program, indicating significant changes in sleep parameters only in the FLU group. The results obtained from the self report inventories aimed at assessing withdrawal symptoms, however, revealed no differences between the baseline week and the termination week of the program in any of the groups. After completing the pharmacological withdrawal, all subjects received a short-term cognitive behavioral intervention focused on improving their coping strategies with symptoms of insomnia; they were evaluated immediately after concluding the intervention, and at 3 and 12 month follow- ups.

UI  - 9850013
TI  - Effect of sustained nocturnal transbuccal melatonin administration on sleep and temperature in elderly insomniacs.
AB  - Previous research has suggested a role for the pineal hormone melatonin in the control of the body's sleep-wake and thermoregulatory systems. In the elderly population, there have been reports of decreased nighttime secretion of melatonin and suggestions that this may, in turn, be responsible for the increased incidence of sleep disorders reported by this age group. On this basis, it has been suggested that augmented nocturnal melatonin levels may improve sleep quality in age-related sleep disorders. Following screening assessments, 12 elderly (> 55 years) subjects with sleep maintenance insomnia were treated with either 0.5 mg transbuccal melatonin or a placebo for two sessions of 4 consecutive nights, at least 3 days apart. Subjects self-selected lights-out times, and sleep was assessed using standard polysomnographic (PSG) measures. Body temperature was measured continually from 2100 to 0700 h, and sleep quality was assessed from PSG variables measured. Nightly urine samples were assayed for the melatonin metabolite 6-sulfatoxy-melatonin (aMT.6S). Compared to the placebo, transbuccal melatonin administration significantly increased mean nocturnal aMT.6S excretion (mean +/- SEM: 194.2 +/- 16.5 vs. 42.5 +/- 7.7 nmol). In addition, there was a significant reduction in core body temperature relative to the placebo condition (p < .05). However, sustained transbuccal melatonin treatment had no positive significant effect on any PSG measure of sleep quality. The results from the present study suggest that sustained nocturnal administration of melatonin, in the low pharmacological range, might be of limited clinical benefit in this subject population.

UI  - 9771816
TI  - Open trial of nefazodone for combat-related posttraumatic stress disorder.
AB  - These preliminary data suggest that nefazodone may be effective in reducing the 3 primary PTSD symptom clusters and may be particularly helpful in improving sleep and decreasing anger.

UI  - 9757514
TI  - [Comparative study for assessing quality of life of patients with exogenous sleep disorders (temporary sleep onset and sleep interruption disorders) treated with a hops-valarian preparation and a benzodiazepine drug].
AB  - This randomized, double-blind, controlled clinical trial in parallel group design demonstrated equivalent efficacy and tolerability of a hop-valerian preparation compared with a benzodiazepine preparation in patients suffering from sleep disorders according to DSM-IV criteria. Sleep quality, fitness and quality of life were determined by psychometric tests, psychopathologic scales and sleep-questionnaires at the beginning of the therapy, end of therapy (duration 2 weeks) and then 1 week after cessation of therapy. Patients' state of health (4-point scale) and medication tolerability (occurrence of adverse events) were documented. Using the following as parameters "Alphabetischer Durchstreichtest, Feinmotoriktest, Befindlichkeitsskala, Beschwerdeliste, Schlaffragebgen A and B" the differences between beginning and the end of the therapy were analyzed by simultaneous testing of the equality or superiority of the test preparation. The equivalence of both therapies according to sleep quality, fitness and quality of life was proven by a Mann-Whitney-Statistic of 0.50 with a lower boundary of the 95% confidence interval of 0.46. The patients' state of health improved during therapy while showing a deterioration after cessation with both preparations. Withdrawal symptoms, however, were documented with benzodiazepine. Only one adverse drug reaction was reported during this study, namely stomach complaints from both the test and reference medication. This study shows that the investigated hop-valerian preparation in the appropriate dose is a sensible alternative to benzodiazepine for the treatment of nonchronic and non-psychiatric sleep disorders.

UI  - 9728734
TI  - Rebound insomnia after hypnotic withdrawal in insomniac outpatients.
AB  - The effect of abrupt medication withdrawal (no-pill discontinuation) was investigated in 1507 insomniacs using the patients' self-ratings on visual analogue scales. Drug discontinuation followed a 28-day treatment period with either 7.5 mg zopiclone, 0.25 mg triazolam, 1.0 mg flunitrazepam, or placebo in a randomized, double-blind, parallel group, multicenter study in private practice. Deterioration below individual pretreatment values (no-pill baseline) in at least one of three subjective parameters of sleep quality (sleep latency, total sleep time, nocturnal awakenings) and three parameters of daytime well-being (morning freshness, daytime tiredness, anxiety) were defined as rebound. The number of patients with rebound (rebound rate) was analyzed for every day of a 2-week posttreatment period. The overall rebound rate was higher in the placebo group (p < or = 0.001) than in each group treated with active drugs. Rebound rates affecting sleep quality were higher for placebo than for zopiclone (p < or = 0.001) and for flunitrazepam (p < or = 0.05). Rebound rates were smaller for zopiclone (p < or = 0.001) and flunitrazepam (p < or = 0.01) than for triazolam. Rebound in at least one item per day appeared in 21.5% (sleep quality) and 25.5% (daytime well-being) of the patients. Rebound decreased with increasing numbers of items of sleep quality or daytime well-being. Patients who did not respond to treatment showed higher rebound rates than those who were treatment responders (p < or = 0.001). Concerning treatment nonresponders, highest rebound was seen in the placebo group, whereas rebound was lowest in placebo responders. These results show that pill discontinuation itself may worsen sleep and daytime well-being in the sense of a rebound phenomenon. Furthermore, the number of patients with rebound remained at a high and varying level during the whole posttreatment period. This result indicates that a deterioration of sleep after drug withdrawal is not apparent during a few days but may last for longer periods in some patients and is modified by marked night-to-night variations.

UI  - 9677811
TI  - [Treatment of neurovegetative menopausal symptoms with a phytotherapeutic agent].
AB  - The product seams to have a central slight antidopaminergic action without side effects and is an effective agent in the treatment of menopausal symptoms.

UI  - 9676070
TI  - Zopiclone in the treatment of insomnia: an open clinical trial.
AB  - The purpose of this study was to examine the efficacy and adverse effects of zopiclone in Thai psychiatric patients. Thirty-two insomniac outpatients with a variety of diagnoses participated in this study. Zopiclone at the dose of 7.5-15 mg was administered 15 minutes before bedtime. The sleep-questionnaire items included: 1) sleep induction; 2) duration of sleep; 3) number of awakenings, 4) sleep quality; 5) dream incidence; and 6) condition in the morning. The mean scores of each item were compared by using pair t-test. One week after treatment, significant improvement was found in all items, except item 5. In comparison between sleep at 1 week and 3 weeks after treatment, further improvement was still found in the first three items. The adverse effects found were bitter taste, drowsiness, and headache. In conclusion, zopiclone is an effective hypnotic with few adverse effects.

UI  - 9646878
TI  - Comparative effects of nefazodone and fluoxetine on sleep in outpatients with major depressive disorder.
AB  - Nefazodone and fluoxetine were equally effective antidepressants. Nefazodone was associated with normal objective, and clinician- and patient-rated assessments of sleep when compared with fluoxetine. These differential sleep EEG effects are consistent with the notion that nefazodone and fluoxetine may have somewhat different modes and spectra of action.

UI  - 9628124
TI  - Efficacy of L-846 in patients with insomnia: evaluation by polysomnography.
AB  - The effects of L-846, an ultra-short-acting pyrazolopyrimidine hypnotic, on sleep were studied in nine insomniacs and two neurotic patients with insomnia. The patients were randomly assigned to receive 5 mg (n=6) or 10 mg (n=5) L-846. The study schedule comprised of one adaptation night, two baseline nights, three drug nights, and two withdrawal nights. Sleep latency and slow wave sleep (SWS) latency was largely shortened and %SWS increased in the early phase of sleep. No clear evidence of rebound insomnia was noted.

UI  - 9543313
TI  - Amitriptyline vs. lorazepam in the treatment of opiate-withdrawal insomnia: a randomized double-blind study.
AB  - Benzodiazepine use in the treatment of insomnia may cause benzodiazepine dependence, especially in opiate users. The aim of this study was to investigate the sedative-hypnotic effects of amitriptyline in treating opiate-withdrawal insomnia. A total of 27 patients with opiate withdrawal were given either amitriptyline or lorazepam in a randomized double-blind trial. Sleep was assessed by means of the Sleep Evaluation Questionnaire and three insomnia items of the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale. The scores of two sleep measures showed that all aspects of sleep, except for ease of awakening from sleep, in the two treatment groups were not significantly different. In conclusion, apart from the hangover effect, amitriptyline is as effective as lorazepam in the treatment of opiate-withdrawal insomnia.

UI  - 9609575
TI  - When does estrogen replacement therapy improve sleep quality?
AB  - Estrogen replacement therapy significantly diminished sleep complaints among postmenopausal women. Alleviation of climacteric symptoms was the most important predictive factor for the beneficial effect of estrogen replacement therapy on sleep complaints. The use of estrogen replacement therapy in women without self-reported climacteric symptoms could also be considered because women do not always recognize their climacteric symptoms or they ignore them.

UI  - 9580369
TI  - Nefazodone in major depression: adjunctive benzodiazepine therapy and tolerability.
AB  - One hundred sixty-six patients suffering from major depressive disorders were treated for 8 weeks with nefazodone in an open study in dosage ranges from 200 to 600 mg. This report focuses primarily on the first week of therapy and on the concomitant use of several benzodiazepines, one of which is not metabolized by the cytochrome system (temazepam). Triazolam response was further evaluated as a function of two nefazodone dosage regimens provided during the first week of therapy, one group receiving nefazodone 200 mg/day for 7 days, and another group receiving nefazodone 200 mg/day for 3 days, followed by 4 days with 400 mg/day. Finally, a comparison of three different nefazodone dosages, the third being 400 mg from day 1 on, was also carried out. Outcome measures included Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression total and the total of the three Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression insomnia items, as well as global improvement, a daily completed sleep questionnaire, and adverse event assessment. A combination of nefazodone with a benzodiazepine (BZ) caused more sedation than nefazodone alone; triazolam, the BZ with the shortest half-life and the highest dependence on the cytochrome 450 system for its metabolism, caused the least amount of sedation, and alprazolam and diazepam, the two daytime benzodiazepines, caused the most sedation. Triazolam caused significant and identical reduction of insomnia in both nefazodone groups. Compared with nefazodone 200 mg given as monotherapy, insomnia was significantly improved--not only by triazolam, but also alprazolam and diazepam, but not temazepam. The addition of nefazodone raised triazolam plasma levels to almost 500%, the plasma level of desmethyl-diazepam 87%, and that of alprazolam 34%. Temazepam plasma levels remained unchanged. When prescribing nefazodone with a benzodiazepine, one should expect an improved sleep pattern initially, but at the cost of clinically relevant daytime sedation. The prediction that temazepam, the only BZ not dependent on the cytochrome mechanism for metabolism, should be the least sedating, and triazolam, because of its cytochromic metabolism interference with nefazodone should be the most sedating, could not be confirmed. In fact, triazolam 0.25 mg capsules seem to be the safest treatment of choice when one has to combine a benzodiazepine with nefazodone in initial stages of therapy, at least of the four benzodiazepines tested in this study.

UI  - 9524979
TI  - Comparison of the effects of zolpidem and flunitrazepam on sleep structure and daytime cognitive functions. A study of untreated unsomniacs.
AB  - The effects of zolpidem 10 mg, flunitrazepam 1 mg, and placebo, administrated at bedtime, were studied in 12 healthy male insomniac patients. The assessments included polygraphic sleep recordings during the night and a battery of cognitive tests (sign crossing test, dichotic listening test, digit span test, visual recognition test and free recall test during four times during the following day. Compared with placebo, both active drugs improved sleep parameters. However, with zolpidem, the results were not statistically different from placebo. Zolpidem dit not alter sleep architecture in contrast to flunitrazepam, which significantly increased stage 2 and decreased slow wave sleep and REM sleep. No significant interaction was found between time of day for the evaluation of cognitive function. Flunitrazepam significantly impaired attention and memory compared with zolpidem and placebo, while zolpidem did not differ from placebo. These results indicate that zolpidem 10 mg preserved sleep structure and daytime cognitive functions in contrast to flunitrazepam.

UI  - 9513073
TI  - Comparison of continuous versus intermittent administration of zolpidem in chronic insomniacs: a double-blind, randomized pilot study.
AB  - The subjective efficacy and safety of intermittent administration of a hypnotic for insomnia was assessed, since such a regime may provide a potential means of reducing the risk of habituation and dependence. A total of 160 adult patients (mean 45 years) with chronic insomnia were treated for 2 weeks with zolpidem, 10 mg, either continuously or intermittently (five nights zolpidem, two consecutive nights placebo per week) in this multicentre, out-patient, pilot study. At the end of the 2-week treatment, patients subjectively estimated their nightly total sleep time as 6.96 +/- 1.19 h (from 6.07 +/- 1.25 h at baseline) and 6.94 +/- 1.30 h (from 5.72 +/- 1.46 h) after the continuous and intermittent treatments, respectively. Patients' reports did not indicate any differences between the two groups in global evaluation of impairment, sleep quality, or the incidence of adverse events. These results suggest that the efficacy and safety of zolpidem, 10 mg, are comparable whether the drug is administered every night or intermittently. Further studies with a broader well-defined patient base, are needed to confirm these data.

UI  - 9500129
TI  - Comparative studies on the effects of the combination drug lorazepam plus diphenhydramine (Somnium) versus lorazepam on the noopsyche, thymopsyche and psychophysiology in nonorganic insomnia related to generalized anxiety disorder.
AB  - In a double-blind, parallel-group design study on hypnotic and anxiolytic effects of the combination drug Somnium (lorazepam 1 mg + diphenhydramine 25 mg) (SOM) as compared with 1 mg lorazepam (LOR) alone, daytime behavioral effects were studied in 44 patients with nonorganic insomnia related to a mild generalized anxiety disorder. After a placebo run-in phase of 1 week, they received active treatment for 4 weeks. Psychometric evaluations included 6 thymopsychic variables (somatic complaints, state anxiety, trait anxiety, self-rating anxiety and depression scale and adjective mood scale), 6 noopsychic variables (general, associative, numerical and total verbal memory; correct reproductions and errors-Benton visual memory test), 4 pupillary measures (pupillary diameter, latency, relative change in % and half recovery time in pupillary response) and 6 skin conductance measures (baseline, latency, ascending time, time to peak, skin conductance response and skin conductance response maximum). Multivariate statistical analysis of the thymopsyche demonstrated significant improvement after both compounds, with the combination drug significantly superior to its single component lorazepam. Also regarding noopsychic measures, Somnium was significantly superior to the single component lorazepam, as specifically verbal memory was improved after Somnium, while opposite changes occurred after lorazepam alone. Pupillary measures revealed no significant overall inter-drug differences, whereas skin conductance findings demonstrated that the combination drug Somnium was superior to the single component lorazepam also in regard to the anxiolytic effect at the autonomic nervous system level.

UI  - 9493923
TI  - Daytime melatonin administration in elderly good and poor sleepers: effects on core body temperature and sleep latency.
AB  - Melatonin has been shown to have hypnotic and hypothermic effects in young adults and has been proposed as treatment for insomnia. However, the hypnotic and thermoregulatory effects of melatonin remain to be simultaneously investigated for aged good and poor sleepers. The aim of this study was to explore the short-term effects of exogenous oral daytime melatonin on core body temperature, sleep latency, and subjective vigor and affect in aged women. Twelve sleep maintenance insomniacs and 10 good sleeping postmenopausal female subjects [mean (SD) age = 65.2 (7.4) years] participated in a double-blind, crossover study in which they received a capsule containing either melatonin (5 mg) or a placebo at 1400 hours. Continuous core body temperature and hourly multiple sleep latency tests (MSLT) were collected from 1100-2030 hours. Self-reported estimates of global vigor (sleepiness) and affect were collected prior to each MSLT using visual analog scales. Comparison of good and poor sleepers failed to reveal any significant differences in core body temperature, sleep latency, or subjective vigor and affect. However, for both groups combined, melatonin administration [absolute postadministration mean (SEM) = 36.9 (0.05) degrees C] significantly lowered core body temperature compared with placebo [37.1 (0.05) degrees C]. Similarly, melatonin administration significantly reduced latency to stage 1 (SOL1) and stage 2 (SOL2) [absolute postadministration mean SOL1 = 20.1 (1.7) and SOL2 = 20.7 (1.6) minutes] compared with placebo [SOL1 = 24.3 (1.2) and SOL2 = 25.2 (1.1) minutes]. Treatment had no significant effect on either vigor or affect. Overall, our results suggest that although short-term exogenous oral daytime melatonin has significant hypothermic and hypnotic effects in aged women, the size of the effects is modest.

UI  - 9485533
TI  - The role of melatonin and circadian phase in age-related sleep-maintenance insomnia: assessment in a clinical trial of melatonin replacement.
AB  - The present investigation used a placebo-controlled, double-blind, crossover design to assess the sleep-promoting effect of three melatonin replacement delivery strategies in a group of patients with age-related sleep-maintenance insomnia. Subjects alternated between treatment and "washout" conditions in 2-week trials. The specific treatment strategies for a high physiological dose (0.5 mg) of melatonin were: (1) EARLY: An immediate-release dose taken 30 minutes before bedtime; (2) CONTINUOUS: A controlled-release dose taken 30 minutes before bedtime; (3) LATE: An immediate-release dose taken 4 hours after bedtime. The EARLY and LATE treatments yielded significant and unambiguous reductions in core body temperature. All three melatonin treatments shortened latencies to persistent sleep, demonstrating that high physiological doses of melatonin can promote sleep in this population. Despite this effect on sleep latency, however, melatonin was not effective in sustaining sleep. No treatment improved total sleep time, sleep efficiency, or wake after sleep onset. Likewise, melatonin did not improve subjective self-reports of nighttime sleep and daytime alertness. Correlational analyses comparing sleep in the placebo condition with melatonin production revealed that melatonin levels were not correlated with sleep. Furthermore, low melatonin producers were not preferentially responsive to melatonin replacement. Total sleep time and sleep efficiency were correlated with the timing of the endogenous melatonin rhythm, and particularly with the phase-relationship between habitual bedtime and the phase of the circadian timing system.

UI  - 9450157
TI  - Evaluation of the efficacy of pivagabine on insomnia associated with mood disorders.
AB  - The efficacy of a new drug, pivagabine (4-[(2,2-dimethyl-1-oxopropyl)amino]butanoic acid, CAS 69542-93-4, Tonerg), was studied on 100 patients affected by insomnia, associated with mood disorders. The pharmacological treatment with 900 mg/d pivagabine produced a significant improvement in the quality of both sleep and awakening. The results shown in the present study were positive and likely attributable to the inhibitory modulating activity of pivagabine on corticotropin releasing factor secretion, that is considered to be responsible for insomnia associated with anxiety or coexisting anxiety and depression, observed in patients with chronic stress. The recovery of sleep physiological structure provokes a significant reduction in the criteria reported in the Self-rating Anxiety Scale (SAS).

UI  - 9342777
TI  - Hypnotic self administration: forced-choice versus single-choice.
AB  - Twenty-four men and women with insomnia, age 21-50 years, self administered hypnotics under a single-choice with placebo, single-choice with triazolam (0.25 mg), or forced-choice of placebo versus triazolam (0.25 mg) paradigm. Subjects received 4- sampling nights of placebo or triazolam in the single-choice conditions or 2 nights of each in the forced-choice condition. Then on 7 choice nights they could self administer a capsule, or not, in the single-choice conditions, or were required to choose one of two color-coded capsules in the forced-choice condition. In the single-choice conditions, subjects chose placebo 80% of nights and triazolam 77% of nights, while in the forced-choice condition triazolam was chosen on 86% of nights. Thus, the self administration of triazolam did not vary significantly between single or forced choice conditions, but that of placebo did. Placebo rate was high when it was the only alternative, but low when competing with triazolam. On sampling nights, compared to placebo, triazolam produced a significant increase in total sleep time, a reduction in latency to sleep, wake after sleep onset, and percentage stage 1 sleep. Triazolam, relative to placebo, also improved mood in the morning on some sampling nights. For subjects choosing capsules < 100% of opportunities (n = 14), on nights a capsule was chosen versus nights none was chosen (regardless of whether placebo or triazolam was the choice), self-ratings 30 min before bedtime on the Profile of Mood States vigor scale were significantly higher.

UI  - 9331522
TI  - Sensitivity of cyclic alternating pattern to prolonged pharmacotherapy: a 5-week study evaluating zolpidem in insomniac patients.
AB  - To test the effects of a hypnotic drug administered on a regular basis, six adults (four women and two men; mean age 37 years) who complained of transient or short-term insomnia, took zolpidem 10 mg at bedtime for 4 consecutive weeks. The period of active treatment, preceded by a baseline placebo night, ended with a 4-night gradual tapering phase followed by 3 nights of placebo administration. After adaptation to the sleep laboratory, all subjects underwent five polysomnographic recordings; baseline placebo (night 1); 1st, 7th and 28th nights of hypnotic medication (nights 2, 3, and 4 respectively); 3rd placebo night after complete tapering (night 5) and completed a morning visual analogue scale (VAS) for evaluating sleep quality. The sleep recordings were scored according to the conventional procedures (macrostructure) and to the cyclic alternating pattern (CAP) rules (microstructure). Data analysis was based on a repeated-measures analysis of variance integrated by post-hoc comparisons. At the macrostructural level, significant overall modifications (p < 0.035) emerged only from slow-wave sleep (SWS). The amounts of SWS were enhanced along the entire drug period, but a significant difference was found only between the baseline night (10%) and the first night of drug administration (20%). At the microstructural level, CAP rate (the ratio of CAP time to non-rapid eye movement sleep time) showed overall significant variations throughout the entire protocol period (p < 0.0001). Compared with baseline night 1 (59%), the CAP rate was significantly lower on drug nights 2 (32%), 3 (37%), and 4 (38%). The increase in the CAP rate found on night 5 (43%) was still significantly below the baseline value. The VAS scores showed significant overall changes (p < 0.0001), with improved values during the active treatment period.

UI  - 9315991
TI  - Hypnotic effects of low doses of quazepam in older insomniacs.
AB  - To evaluate the efficacy and safety of reduced doses of the benzodiazepine agonist quazepam in older insomniacs, 30 men and women > 60 years old with chronic insomnia were randomly assigned to receive 0, 7.5, or 15 mg quazepam. After two placebo nights, each subject received the appropriate dose for seven consecutive nights, which was followed by two placebo recovery nights. Both doses increased total sleep time relative to placebo during the early (nights 1 and 2) and late (nights 6 and 7) treatment phases. The low dose reduced sleep latency during the late phase, whereas the high dose reduced sleep latency in both early and late treatment phases. These observed hypnotic effects for both doses did not diminish over the seven nights of repeated administration. There also was a continued hypnotic effect during the two nights of placebo recovery for both doses. Analyses of plasma concentrations of quazepam and its metabolites suggested the continued drug effects on sleep during recovery are due to the metabolite desalkylflurazepam. In the safety evaluation done by means of adverse drug event assessments and postsleep questionnaires, the adverse events reported were minimal and not drug or dose related.

UI  - 9197949
TI  - Multidrug comparison (lorazepam, triazolam, zolpidem, and zopiclone) in situational insomnia: polysomnographic analysis by means of the cyclic alternating pattern.
AB  - Since homogeneous samples of insomniacs are difficult to recruit for pharmacotherapy studies, normal sleepers can be used to assess the protective effect of hypnotic drugs, under standardized nonconducive conditions. In particular, a noisy environment is a typical cause of situational insomnia that can be counteracted by a sedative-hypnotic agent. Six healthy middle-aged subjects (three men and three women), with no complaints about sleep, underwent a completely randomized double-blind series of 10 nocturnal polysomnograms with at least 72-h washout intervals. All subjects received a single dose of placebo, zolpidem 10 mg, zopiclone 7.5 mg, lorazepam 1 mg, and triazolam 0.25 mg both under basal and under perturbed conditions. For each individual, five recordings were carried out under basal conditions (sound pressure level not higher than 30 dB) and five recordings under acoustically perturbed conditions (continuous white noise at 55 dB). Sleep quality was assessed by means of a visual analogue scale (VAS). All recordings were scored according to conventional rules (macro-structure) and cyclic alternating pattern (CAP) methodology (microstructure). Statistical analysis was based on a repeated measures analysis-of-variance design integrated by Bonferroni adjusted probabilities. Under placebo, situational insomnia was confirmed by the significant increase in sleep fragmentation (intrasleep wakefulness) and by the significant enhancement of arousal instability (CAP parameters). In contrast to macrostructural information, CAP parameters were highly sensitive in detecting the perturbing effects of noise (mean CAP rate under placebo, 57%) and the protective action of hypnotic drugs during perturbation (mean CAP rate under active medication, 41%). Microstructural analysis enabled us to discriminate hypnotic drugs from placebo, nonbenzodiazepine compounds from benzodiazepine agents, and zopiclone from zolpidem. The latter, in fact, induced the lowest values of CAP rate both under basal (30%) and under noisy (39%) conditions and determined a significant decrease in electroencephalogram arousals. All CAP parameters were significantly correlated with the visual-analogue-scale scores for sleep quality. The use of CAP methodology in a highly standardized model of situational insomnia can be a valid alternative to conventional sleep scoring for the investigation of drug effects on disturbed sleep.

UI  - 9099463
TI  - Minimal rebound insomnia after treatment with 10-mg zolpidem.
AB  - This study examined rebound insomnia after discontinuation of chronic use of zolpidem (10 mg), a short elimination half-life imidazopyridine. The zolpidem group was bracketed by a placebo group and a positive control group taking 0.5 mg of triazolam (twice the recommended dose), which is known to produce rebound insomnia. Ninety-nine patients with sleep complaints that were polysomnographically documented participated in the study. After randomization, patients completed a 2-night, single-blind, placebo baseline period, a 28-night double-blind treatment phase, and a 3-night, single-blind, placebo substitution period. Polysomnographic and subjective sleep variables indicated a lack of rebound insomnia for the zolpidem group. The positive triazolam control group had rebound insomnia only on the first discontinuation night. There was no significant correlation between rebound insomnia and the level of initial insomnia, the degree of response to treatment in week 4, or the amount of tolerance that developed during drug use. During the 4-week treatment period, efficacy diminished for both drugs. From these data, it cannot be determined whether the lack of rebound insomnia with zolpidem is a result of drug dose or some property of the drug such as receptor selectivity.

UI  - 9327191
TI  - A comparison of zopiclone and propiomazine as hypnotics in outpatients: a multicentre, double-blind, randomized, parallel-group comparison of zopiclone and propiomazine in insomniacs.
AB  - In a double-blind, parallel-group study of 135 patients with a mean age of 60 years, zopiclone 5 mg was compared with propiomazine 25 mg. The patients rated their sleep in a diary. There were statistically significant differences in favour of zopiclone for nine out of 13 variables measuring subjective sleep quality and quantity. Concerning side-effects, bad taste was reported more frequently in the zopiclone group and restless legs in the propiomazine group.

UI  - 9313245
TI  - Nonorganic insomnia in generalized anxiety disorder. 2. Comparative studies on sleep, awakening, daytime vigilance and anxiety under lorazepam plus diphenhydramine (Somnium) versus lorazepam alone, utilizing clinical, polysomnographic and EEG mapping methods.
AB  - Previous human pharmacological and toxicological studies demonstrated advantages of the combination drug Somnium [SOM, lorazepam (LOR) 1 mg plus diphenhydramine 25 mg] over 1 mg LOR alone, as it showed synergistic effects in hypnotic properties and antagonistic effects in regard to toxicity. In the present double-blind, parallel-group study, hypnotic and anxiolytic effects of SOM were studied in 44 patients with non-organic insomnia related to mild generalized anxiety disorder (GAD), as compared with LOR alone. After a placebo run-in phase of 1 week, they received active treatment (1 tablet SOM or LOR 1 mg) for 4 weeks and thereafter placebo again for 1 week. Clinical evaluations included the physician's general assessment of efficacy, tolerance and adverse effects, the Hamilton anxiety rating scale (HAMA), the Zung self-rating anxiety scale (SAS) and depression scale, the withdrawal symptom scale (WSS), hematology and blood chemistry. Sleep laboratory evaluations included objective and subjective sleep and awakening quality, measured by polysomnography, self-rating of sleep and awakening quality (SSA) and a psychometric test battery in the morning, as well as measurement of daytime brain function, objectivated by EEG mapping. Physicians' global evaluation of insomnia demonstrated no changes in the pre-drug placebo period, moderate improvement under both drugs, with a marginal advantage of SOM over LOR in the first 2 weeks, and a return to pre-drug values in the post-drug placebo period. Anxiety improved in observer ratings (HAMA) under both drugs, in self-rating (SAS) under the combination drug only, with the scores returning to pre-drug placebo values after post-drug placebo substitution. There were no significant findings in the self-rating depression scale and the WSS, with the exception of an improvement in the WSS score 4 weeks after SOM, as compared with pre-drug placebo. There were no rebound phenomena. Both drugs were well tolerated-in regard to both adverse effects and laboratory findings. Confirmatory statistics on the polysomnographically recorded target variable latency to sleep onset stage 2 demonstrated a significant shortening of sleep latency after SOM and a significant superiority of the combination drug SOM over LOR after acute dosing, as compared with pre-drug placebo. Descriptive statistics demonstrated further a significant improvement of sleep efficiency and total sleep time after SOM and of wakefulness time and number of awakenings during the total sleep period after both drugs, but no interdrug differences. Sleep architecture remained unchanged. Subjective sleep quality improved with both drugs, morning drowsiness and the total SSA score only with SOM, while LOR was superior to SOM regarding morning somatic complaints. There were neither changes nor interdrug differences in the morning noopsyche. In psychophysiology, critical flicker frequency decreased more under SOM than LOR. After 4 weeks therapy, no significant findings in polysomnography and subjective sleep and awakening were seen, except for an increase in movement time under LOR (tolerance development). In objective awakening quality, psychometry revealed an improvement of reaction time under SOM and a decrease of attention variability and an increase in fine-motor activity under LOR, with an interdrug comparison showing a significant superiority of SOM over LOR in regard to reaction time, reaction time variability and reaction time performance. After placebo substitution, rebound phenomena were seen in polysomnography and subjective sleep and awakening in the 1st night of the SOM group only, which were gone in the 7th placebo night, however. Noopsychic performance remained improved in both groups, with a superiority of SOM to LOR in regard to reaction time and reaction time variability. (ABSTRACT TRUNCATED)

UI  - 9163057
TI  - [Halcion (triazolam) in the treatment of insomnia].
AB  - A hypnotic effect of chalcion (triazolam) was studied in 24 outpatients suffering from insomnia. It was found high and beneficial in pre-, intra- and post-insomniac disorders. Side effects were mild. Characteristics of chalcion-induced sleep reached to those of physiological sleep. Chalcion was found superior to other drugs used against insomnia.

UI  - 9049574
TI  - Gradual withdrawal from benzodiazepines in residents of homes for the elderly: experience and suggestions for future research.
AB  - The findings are promising for further research, but researchers should anticipate the problems inherent in executing a trial with institutionalised elderly subjects.

UI  - 9034702
TI  - Triazolam and diphenhydramine effects on seizure duration in depressed patients receiving ECT.
AB  - 

UI  - 9031992
TI  - Sleep in patients with chronic primary insomnia during long-term zolpidem administration and after its withdrawal.
AB  - A double-blind trial was carried out to determine the effect of zolpidem or a placebo on sleep in two groups of insomniac patients with a diagnosis of moderate chronic primary insomnia. Zolpidem was given at a daily dose of 10 mg for 27 nights and was preceded (two nights) and followed (three nights) by a placebo. Zolpidem induced a significant increase of total sleep time, while total wake time and wake time after sleep onset were reduced. Values corresponding to stage 2 sleep were augmented, while stage 3 sleep and REM sleep showed no significant changes. Tolerance did not develop during the zolpidem administration period, and rebound insomnia did not show following abrupt interruption of drug administration. In addition, patients on zolpidem had a more peaceful sleep with no decrement of levels of alertness.

UI  - 8895944
TI  - Nocturnal melatonin secretion and sleep after doxepin administration in chronic primary insomnia.
AB  - Nocturnal melatonin secretion and polysomnographic sleep patterns were investigated in ten patients with chronic primary insomnia (age 41.3 +/- 9.5 years) and in five healthy subject, (age 27.2 +/- 0.7 years) after either a single intravenous administration of 25 mg doxepin or placebo in a randomized, double blind, and cross-over setting. In the patient group a third session was performed after a three-week open oral treatment with 25 mg doxepin daily. The single-dose administration of doxepin did not affect plasma melatonin concentrations in either the patients on the healthy subjects. After three weeks of oral doxepin intake by the patients, the area under the curve of total nocturnal plasma melatonin concentration was significantly increased by 26% and the peak values were increased by 30%. Both after the single i.v. treatment as well as after long-term oral administration, doxepin also significantly improved sleep latency, total sleep time, and sleep efficiency in the insomniacs as well as the healthy subjects, whereas the nocturnal wake time was decreased. These findings indicate that this tricyclic antidepressant not only improves sleep and but also preserves the secretion of a hormone which is believed to play a special role in the circadian sleep-wake rhythm. Long-term doxepin treatment of chronic insomniac patients not only improves sleep but also restores nocturnal melatonin secretion in these patients.

UI  - 8888381
TI  - Hypnotic self administration and dose escalation.
AB  - The dependence liability of benzodiazepines in the context of their use as hypnotics (i.e. by insomnia patients as pre-sleep medications) is unresolved. A recent study found that insomniacs self administer capsules at bedtime at a high rate, with triazolam (0.25 mg) taken as often as placebo. This study sought to determine if differential self administration would develop when multiple capsules are available nightly. Eighteen men and women, age 21-45 years, with insomnia complaints (nine with objective sleep disturbance and nine without) were studied, 1 week with placebo and 1 week with triazolam (0.25 mg). The two conditions were administered double-blind and presented in a counter-balanced order with a week between conditions. In each condition, after 3 consecutive sampling nights of the available single capsule for that condition, subjects could self administer 0-3 capsules before bed on the 4 subsequent nights. Triazolam was self administered as many nights as placebo, but the number of placebo capsules self administered was twice that of triazolam capsules. The objective insomniacs self administered more capsules than the subjective insomniacs and neither group differentially choose triazolam over placebo. The number of triazolam capsules taken nightly was stable and the number of placebo capsules variable. It is concluded that insomniacs show no short-term escalation of triazolam dose, but do choose an increased and variable number of placebos, a pattern which is interpreted as being insomnia relief-seeking behavior.

UI  - 8828996
TI  - Zolpidem in the treatment of short-term insomnia: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial.
AB  - Zolpidem was evaluated in this double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled study for efficacy and safety in patients with short-term insomnia related to problems with work, marriage, family, or financial matters. One hundred and thirty-eight patients ranging in age from 20 to 55 years were evaluated for safety. Of these, 136 patients were included in the analysis of efficacy. Patients received zolpidem 10 mg or placebo nightly for 7-10 nights. Patients completed a morning questionnaire daily, reported their global impressions of therapy, and completed a Profile of Mood States (POMS) at the start and end of the study. Nine patients (three zolpidem and six placebo) discontinued before completing the study; three (one zolpidem and two placebo) due to adverse events. Compared to placebo, zolpidem significantly reduced subjective latency to sleep on all nights of treatment and patients rated that falling asleep was easier with zolpidem than with placebo (p < 0.01) throughout the study. Compared to placebo, the zolpidem-treated patients reported longer total sleep time, fewer awakenings after sleep onset, shorter time spent awake after sleep onset and better quality of sleep. All of these differences were significant during at least part of the study. No morning sleepiness or impairment in the ability to concentrate were recorded among patients taking zolpidem. Each item on the patient's global impression of zolpidem therapy was rated significantly better than that of placebo. No changes in mood (including anxiety) were detected using the POMS scale. Side effects occurred with a similar frequency in the zolpidem and placebo groups. Zolpidem was found to be more effective than placebo and was well tolerated in the management of stress-induced short-term insomnia.

UI  - 8905934
TI  - Pharmacotherapy of transient insomnia related to night work.
AB  - Shiftworkers working on the night shift transpose their sleeping hours to the time of day which is inconvenient for sleep because of the endogenous circadian rhythm sleep wakefulness, the circadian rhythms of other body functions and the environmental schedule. As a result of this, a certain number of workers suffer from insomnia. This study aimed at examining the effects of two hypnotic agents with different elimination times on sleep disturbances which follow night shift work. Three groups of shiftworkers took zopiclone, nitrazepam and placebo capsules during a week of work on the night shift repeating it three times so that each week of capsule taking was separated from the next by a three-week break. In the two groups on hypnotics total length and efficacy of main sleep improved as did the efficacy of all day sleeps at the very beginning of the week, and these sleep characteristics persisted throughout the week. In contrast, in the group which took a placebo sleep was shorter and loss efficacious at the beginning but improved towards the end of the week. There was no negative effect of hypnotics on the shiftworker's mood after waking up. To an extent, the hypnotics proved to be useful for periodical pharmacological improvement of the length and efficacy of day sleep after night work in the slowly rotating shift system.

UI  - 8707238
TI  - [Dynamics of the hypnotic effect of 0.125 mg and 0.250 mg brotizolam. The lower dosage is adequate for treatment of sleep disorders].
AB  - The results of the present study demonstrate for the first time that a half-tablet of brotizolam is an effective treatment of difficulty in getting to sleep initially or after premature wakening.

UI  - 8771595
TI  - A new design of trial for hypnotics comparison: a double-blind cross-over trial with patient's preference assessment and continuation of the preferred treatment.
AB  - 1. This study compared two hypnotics administrated at comparable therapeutic dosages: triazolam (0.25 mg) and loprazolam (1 mg), were administered using an original scheme (cross-over on the first 2 nights, and continuation of the preferred treatment or new randomization). 2. Sixty-seven outpatients complaining of common insomnia participated in this study conducted by general practitioners. 3. Both drugs provided improvement in sleep quality (decreased sleep latency, increased total duration of sleep, decreased number of night awakenings), and are equally well tolerated. 4. For the first 2 nights, triazolam was evaluated to be more efficient than loprazolam (p < 0.001), and patients felt more rested the following day (p < 0.01) with the former drug. Moreover, triazolam is more frequently preferred than loprazolam by 47.7% and 29.2%, respectively, (p = 0.09). 5. No interaction was found between treatment and order of administration or specific effects and order of administration.

UI  - 8629680
TI  - Long-term, nightly benzodiazepine treatment of injurious parasomnias and other disorders of disrupted nocturnal sleep in 170 adults.
AB  - Long-term, nightly benzodiazepine treatment of injurious parasomnias and other disorders of disrupted nocturnal sleep resulted in sustained efficacy in most cases, with low risk of dosage tolerance, adverse effects, or abuse. Data from this study on the treatment of chronic, severe insomnia (a small subset of all insomnia) are not generalizable to the typical insomnia patient.

UI  - 8992838
TI  - [The effect of Lendormin (brotizolam) on the sleep structure and subjective assessment of sleep in insomnia patients].
AB  - The influence of Lendormine (diazepine derivative) both on the sleep structure and subjective estimation of sleep was examined in 25 patients at the age of 19-64 years old with neurotic insomnia. The investigation was performed before, during and after 10 days of treatment (0.25 mg before the sleep time). The drug administration resulted in significant improvement of sleep structure that is in sleep duration and efficiency because the drug either promoted falling asleep or increased the second and the forth stages of sleep. Lendormine decreased also the wakening time inside the sleep. The polysomnographic results coincided completely with subjective estimation of sleep by patients themselves after the treatment. The optimal time of therapy didn't exceed 2 weeks. The drug was well tolerated without any complications. The conclusion is made about high effectiveness of Lendormine in the treatment of patients with insomnia.

UI  - 8650463
TI  - The impact of missile warfare on self-reported sleep quality. Part 1.
AB  - During the 1991 Gulf War, we investigated the effect of missile attacks through two telephone surveys of a large sample of an urban population that evaluated self-reported sleep quality, stress, fear, depressed mood, fatigue and power of concentration. We surveyed 1,045 people during the Gulf War itself, and we interviewed them again (excluding the chronic insomniacs) 30 days after the war. During the war, 51% of the subjects claimed to be suffering from disturbed sleep. Whereas 13% of the survey population had been chronic insomniacs before the war, 38% developed insomnia during the war. The war provoked reported stress (67.5% of subjects), depressed mood (50.9%), difficulties in concentration (39.7%) and increased fatigue (25%). Four weeks after it ended, 19% of the previously normal subjects were still suffering from insomnia; 5% of the cases of insomnia were developed postbellum. Stress, depressed mood and impaired concentration were found to correlate significantly with subjectively evaluated insomnia. We concluded that modern missile warfare may induce long-lasting insomnia in one-third of the population under threat. A small percentage may develop insomnia postbellum. The risk of developing long-lasting insomnia is higher in those who reported experiencing prolonged stress and depressed moods.

UI  - 7491013
TI  - Improvement of sleep quality by melatonin.
AB  - 

UI  - 8552931
TI  - Melatonin replacement therapy of elderly insomniacs.
AB  - Changes in sleep-wake patterns are among the hallmarks of biological aging. Previously, we reported that impaired melatonin secretion is associated with sleep disorders in old age. In this study we investigated the effects of melatonin replacement therapy on melatonin-deficient elderly insomniacs. The study comprised a running-in, no-treatment period and four experimental periods. During the second, third and fourth periods, subjects were administered tablets for 7 consecutive days, 2 hours before desired bedtime. The tablets were either 2 mg melatonin administered as sustained-release or fast-release formulations, or an identical-looking placebo. The fifth period, which concluded the study, was a 2-month period of daily administration of 1 mg sustained-release melatonin 2 hours before desired bedtime. During each of these five experimental periods, sleep-wake patterns were monitored by wrist-worn actigraphs. Analysis of the first three 1-week periods revealed that a 1-week treatment with 2 mg sustained-release melatonin was effective for sleep maintenance (i.e. sleep efficiency and activity level) of elderly insomniacs, while sleep initiation was improved by the fast-release melatonin treatment. Sleep maintenance and initiation were further improved following the 2-month 1-mg sustained-release melatonin treatment, indicating that tolerance had not developed. After cessation of treatment, sleep quality deteriorated. Our findings suggest that for melatonin-deficient elderly insomniacs, melatonin replacement therapy may be beneficial in the initiation and maintenance of sleep.

UI  - 7658780
TI  - Improvement of sleep quality in elderly people by controlled-release melatonin.
AB  - Melatonin, produced by the pineal gland at night, has a role in regulation of the sleep-wake cycle. Among elderly people, even those who are healthy, the frequency of sleep disorders is high and there is an association with impairment of melatonin production. We investigated the effect of a controlled-release formulation of melatonin on sleep quality in 12 elderly subjects (aged 76 [SD 8] years) who were receiving various medications for chronic illnesses and who complained of insomnia. In all 12 subjects the peak excretion of the main melatonin metabolite 6-sulphatoxymelatonin during the night was lower than normal and/or delayed in comparison with non-insomniac elderly people. In a randomised, double-blind, crossover study the subjects were treated for 3 weeks with 2 mg per night of controlled-release melatonin and for 3 weeks with placebo, with a week's washout period. Sleep quality was objectively monitored by wrist actigraphy. Sleep efficiency was significantly greater after melatonin than after placebo (83 [SE 4] vs 75 [3]%, p < 0.001) and wake time after sleep onset was significantly shorter (49 [14] vs 73 [13] min, p < 0.001). Sleep latency decreased, but not significantly (19 [5] vs 33 [7] min, p = 0.088). Total sleep time was not affected. The only adverse effects reported were two cases of pruritus, one during melatonin and one during placebo treatment; both resolved spontaneously. Melatonin deficiency may have an important role in the high frequency of insomnia among elderly people. Controlled-release melatonin replacement therapy effectively improves sleep quality in this population.

UI  - 8524969
TI  - Changes of cyclic alternating pattern (CAP) parameters in situational insomnia under brotizolam and triazolam.
AB  - The standardized scoring criteria of sleep can serve as a rough tool for monitoring the effects of psychoactive compounds, both in normal sleepers and in insomniac patients. More sensitive information on the impact of perturbing factors and drugs during sleep is supplied by the cyclic alternating pattern (CAP) parameters. In particular, CAP rate, which measures the amount of arousal instability during NREM sleep, has been proved of high reliability in a variety of clinical and pharmacological settings. The present study aimed at evaluating the activity of brotizolam (Br) 0.25 mg and triazolam (Tr) 0.25 mg on both conventional and CAP parameters in a model of situational insomnia of intermediate severity. Six middle-aged healthy subjects (three males and three females, aged 40-55 years) with no complaints about sleep, underwent a polysomnographic investigation according to a double-blind crossover design: placebo without noise (night 1), placebo with noise (night 2), brotizolam or triazolam without noise (nights 3 and 5), brotizolam or triazolam with noise (nights 4 and 6). The unperturbed nights consisted of standard recording conditions in a sound-protected sleep laboratory, whereas situational insomnia was accomplished by means of continuous white noise at 55 dBA delivered throughout the night. Subjects received medication orally at bedtime. An interval of at least 48 h was secured between consecutive recordings in the same individual. Compared to baseline conditions, situational insomnia was characterized by a shorter amount of total sleep (-40 min) and by an extension of intrasleep awakenings (+62 min).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

UI  - 7775993
TI  - Can drug treatment be improved by feedback on prescribing profiles combined with therapeutic recommendations? A prospective, controlled trial in general practice.
AB  - We have carried out a prospective, controlled trial to ascertain whether mailed feedback on general practitioners' (GPs) own prescribing combined with relevant recommendations on drug treatment, can improve the prescribing. The GPs in the Norwegian county of Mre and Romsdal recorded all their contacts with patients and prescriptions during two periods. After the first period the GPs in Romsdal only (intervention group) received a mailed report giving their prescribing profiles as well as treatment recommendations for insomnia and acute cystitis. The total number of contacts with patients was 68,625 in which 55,747 items were prescribed. The GPs in the intervention group changed their prescribing in accordance with the intervention: they prescribed significantly less sleeping-pills for each patient, preferred short- to long-acting benzodiazepine hypnotics and tranquilizers, and they chose trimethoprim as a first line treatment for acute cystitis. We conclude that it is possible to improve the GPs' prescribing through mailed feedback.

UI  - 8588058
TI  - Serial partial sleep deprivation as adjuvant treatment of depressive insomnia.
AB  - 1. Sleep disturbance is a prominent symptom of major depression. Despite specific treatment with antidepressants, there is a substantial number of patients who improve in depressed mood but remain sleep disturbed. 2. Polysomnographic sleep (PSG) data and self reported sleep measures were assessed at baseline and after one week in 18 patients (35-65 years) randomly assigned to treatment with either trimipramine alone 200 mg/d (group 1) or trimipramine (200 mg/d) and additional serial partial sleep deprivation in the second half of the night (3x/week) (group 2). 3. In group 1 no marked changes between baseline and after treatment were found. 4. In group 2 the PSG data showed a significant increase of slow wave sleep and a compensatory decrease in stage 1. Sleep continuity improved in terms of numbers of awakenings, sleep onset latency and total sleep time. These changes were in parallel with the subjective estimation of sleep in group 2. 5. There was no significant difference in the Hamilton rating scale scores neither at baseline nor after treatment. 6. These observed effects on sleep following additional serial PSD therapy seem to occur independent from the antidepressive effect.

UI  - 7618022
TI  - Zolpidem in the treatment of transient insomnia: a double-blind, randomized comparison with placebo.
AB  - Transient insomnia may be induced by stress, sleep in unfamiliar surroundings, jet lag and other factors. Zolpidem, a novel imidazopyridine hypnotic, has been shown to have hypnotic properties in most patients without significantly affecting next-day performance. Using the first-night effect in a sleep laboratory as a model of transient insomnia, this placebo-controlled, double-blind, parallel-group study evaluated the efficacy and safety of zolpidem in 462 normal volunteers. Zolpidem was tested at doses of 5, 7.5, 10, 15 and 20 mg, and statistical analysis of 7.5 mg and 10 mg was compared with placebo (unbalanced randomization). Compared with placebo, the 7.5 mg and 10 mg doses of zolpidem decreased sleep latency and increased sleep duration and maintenance (i.e. reduced number of awakenings). Zolpidem (7.5 mg or 10 mg) had no significant effect on next-day psychomotor performance. No statistically significant differences in the overall side-effect profiles were found between 7.5-mg and 10-mg zolpidem dose groups and placebo. This study demonstrates that zolpidem at 7.5 mg and 10 mg is effective in the treatment of transient insomnia.

UI  - 7618021
TI  - How "blind" are double-blind placebo-controlled trials of benzodiazepine hypnotics?
AB  - This study examined the accuracy of insomnia patients and their treating physicians in rating whether an active hypnotic drug or a placebo was given in treatment. Forty older adults with primary insomnia were randomly assigned to either an active (temazepam) or a placebo condition using a double-blind strategy. Ratings of treatment conditions were obtained at 1 week (early treatment), 4 weeks (midtreatment), and 8 weeks (late treatment). Patients were able to accurately discriminate (beyond chance levels) between the active and placebo medications at the early (76.9% accuracy) and late treatment assessment timepoints (78.1% accuracy), but not at midtreatment (51.5% accuracy). Therapists, however, were able to make accurate discriminations at the late treatment assessment timepoint only (80% accuracy); early (69.2% accuracy) and midtreatment (47.2% accuracy) ratings did not exceed chance levels. Patients who had used hypnotic drugs prior to this trial were more accurate in their judgments of treatment conditions than those without prior exposure. The findings raise an important issue about the internal validity of the double-blind strategy, which may in fact be only a single-blind procedure.

UI  - 7786939
TI  - A controlled trial of educational visiting to improve benzodiazepine prescribing in general practice.
AB  - A randomised controlled trial studied the effect of an educational visit on benzodiazepine prescribing. An approximately representative sample of 286 general practitioners was allocated to an intervention or a control group. Rates of benzodiazepine prescriptions were derived from two comprehensive self-report surveys seven months apart. Two months after the first survey the intervention group received an educational visit and supporting material from a doctor or pharmacist, ostensibly unconnected with the surveys. The overall benzodiazepine prescribing rate fell by 23.7 per cent from the first to the second surveys, from 4.93 to 3.76 prescriptions per 100 encounters (P < 0.001). Anxiety and insomnia diagnosis rates also declined from 4.68 to 3.76 per 100 encounters (19.7 per cent). After adjusting for confounders, there was a differential downward trend in prescriptions per diagnosis of insomnia but not to a statistical level. The same was true of initial prescriptions per insomnia diagnosis. In a subsidiary analysis selecting only new insomnia diagnoses, the intervention had a strong effect in reducing initial prescriptions (odds ratio 0.18, 95 per cent confidence interval 0.04 to 0.73). No effect was seen on prescribing for anxiety diagnoses. Educational practice visiting for benzodiazepine prescribing in anxiety, as we conducted it, is not justified in an unselected population of general practitioners. Specific education on prescribing for insomnia is probably useful. Our interpretation of the reduction in benzodiazepine prescribing is that probably there was an effect from self-monitoring alone which overwhelmed a main-analysis intervention effect. Retrospective diagnosis may also have obscured a real intervention effect.

UI  - 7782486
TI  - Antagonizing the effects of experimentally induced sleep disturbance in healthy volunteers by lormetazepam and zolpidem.
AB  - The effects on sleep of two well known hypnotics, lormetazepam and zolpidem, during experimentally induced environmental noise were compared with placebo. In a double-blind, crossover study, 12 normal volunteers were subjected to prerecorded traffic noise with a mean noise level of 52 dB(A) and peaks to 77 dB(A) continuously for 8 hours in bed. Both hypnotics increased total sleep time, predominantly stage 2 sleep. A significant decrease in the number of sleep stage transitions, arousals, and awakenings longer than 3 minutes was found only with lormetazepam. No significant effects on rapid eye movement (REM) and slow wave sleep were observed. Latencies to persistent sleep and REM sleep onset were not different for either active treatment compared with placebo. Only after lormetazepam was performance on the morning reaction time test significantly affected. However, no differences were found in the subjective sleep quality and alertness ratings. Changes in the distribution of sleep stages throughout the night were related to the elimination half-life characteristics of the hypnotics, but few trends were detected. Both the protective properties against environmental noise of the hypnotics studied and the validity of the model of induced sleep disturbance in evaluating hypnotic agents are discussed.

UI  - 7792498
TI  - Effects of flurazepam and zolpidem on the perception of sleep in insomniacs.
AB  - We have shown previously that the benzodiazepine hypnotic triazolam alters the perception of being awake or asleep in insomniacs, making it more likely that they will report having been asleep when awakened by an electronic tone at various times of the night. In the present study, we examined the question as to whether this is also true for other benzodiazepines as well as for nonbenzodiazepine hypnotics. Ten insomniacs were given placebo, flurazepam 30 mg and zolpidem 10 mg and were awakened at five times during subsequent sleep in a random-sequence repeated-measures study. Across all five awakenings following placebo, insomniacs reported being asleep with a frequency of 30.9%. This rose to 40.4% (ns) and 54.7% (p < 0.03) on flurazepam and zolpidem, respectively. Subjects were also more likely to report having been dreaming during the awakening 5 minutes after "lights out" after receiving zolpidem. A number of polygraphic measures of sleep, including sleep latency, total sleep and sleep efficiency, improved significantly on both drugs, and there was similar improvement in some global measures of quality of sleep. Neither drug altered the subjective sense of duration of time. These findings suggest that drug-induced alterations in the perception of being awake or asleep are not unique to benzodiazepines, but occur with the nonbenzodiazepine zolpidem as well.

UI  - 7792497
TI  - Effects of flurazepam and zolpidem on the perception of sleep in normal volunteers.
AB  - In previous studies we have reported that the benzodiazepine hypnotic triazolam and the nonbenzodiazepine zolpidem increase the likelihood that insomniacs will report having been asleep when awakened by an electronic tone of progressive intensity. It has not been known, however, whether this occurs with normal sleepers. In the present study we have administered placebo, flurazepam 30 mg and zolpidem 10 mg to 15 normal sleepers and awakened them with an electronic tone at five points across the night. In contrast to previous reports with insomniacs, both compounds made only modest improvements in sleep. When all time points were combined, subjects reported having been asleep in 40.3, 42.9 and 47.9% of the trials on placebo, flurazepam and zolpidem, respectively (ns). Subjects were accurate in their estimate of total time asleep, and this accuracy was not influenced by the drugs. Similarly, there were no effects on a variety of questions related to dreaming and other cognitive activity during sleep. These results suggest that the effects of these hypnotics, which have been described previously in insomniacs, are not found in normals. Further studies will be necessary to clarify whether such effects in insomniacs are related to the clinical efficacy of hypnotics.

UI  - 8829890
TI  - Double-blind comparison of zopiclone and flunitrazepam in elderly insomniacs with special focus on residual effects.
AB  - In a double-blind study of 102 patients with a mean age of 79 years, zopiclone was compared to flunitrazepam. The patients rated their sleep in a diary. There was no statistically significant difference between the relatively low dose of 5 mg zopiclone and 1 mg flunitrazepam for eleven out of the twelve variables measuring subjective sleep quality and quantity. There was no differences between the drugs as regards patients' feelings of being rested or alertness.

UI  - 7774760
TI  - Zolpidem in insomnia: a 3-year post-marketing surveillance study in Switzerland.
AB  - A multicentre post-marketing surveillance study was conducted in Switzerland in routine practice and involved 1972 insomniac patients treated with zolpidem, an imidazopyridine hypnotic agent. The patients were representative of the general insomniac population (65% women; mean age 55 years; 29% over 65). Of the patients, 87% were treated with a zolpidem dosage of 10 mg/day and the median treatment duration was 30 days. All adverse events were collected through spontaneous reporting. A total of 175 patients (8.9%) reported 343 adverse events, and 102 (5.2%) of them discontinued treatment. CNS (central nervous system)-related adverse events accounted for 66% of the total, the most common events being residual daytime sedation and insufficient efficacy in 3.7% and 1.6%, respectively; confusion, disorientation, nervousness, nightmares, amnesia, impaired concentration and anxiety were observed in a lower proportion. Gastro-intestinal symptoms, headache and skin reactions were the most frequent non-CNS related effects. No serious adverse event was reported and no new risk factors or at-risk populations were identified. The safety profile of zolpidem is thus consistent with its known pharmacological properties, the results of previous clinical trials, and the cumulative international experience gained with this short-acting hypnotic drug.

UI  - 7659203
TI  - ECG activity in the sleep of insomniac patients under the influence of lormetazepam and zopiclone.
AB  - The influence of the benzodiazepine hypnotic lormetazepam (1 mg) and the cyclopyrrolone hypnotic zopiclone (7.5 mg) on heart rate activity was studied in 16 elderly insomniacs in a placebo-controlled, randomised, 3-fold crossover trial. After digital preprocessing of the ECG, QRS complexes were automatically recognised by a detection technique based on adaptative thresholds. Both R-R periodicity and heart rate variability were analysed as a function of sleep stages and time of night. Under placebo, heart rate decreased significantly from the first to the second half of the night. The relationship between sleep stages and heart rate remained constant under both hypnotics. Although the two substances significantly modified the distribution of sleep stages, no relevant changes in ECG activity were observed when the proportion of the different sleep stages was taken into consideration.

UI  - 7491373
TI  - The effects of fluoxetine on symptoms of insomnia in depressed patients.
AB  - Fluoxetine is an efficacious, nonsedative antidepressant, but its selective efficacy on symptoms of insomnia has not been thoroughly explored. In this analysis, the effects of fluoxetine versus placebo on symptoms of insomnia were evaluated in three clinical subgroups: patients with baseline sleep disturbance, melancholia, or reduced rapid eye movement (REM) latency. Eighty-nine outpatients with major depression completed 2 nights of polysomnography (PSG) and were randomized to fluoxetine or placebo. Within each subgroup of patients, fluoxetine was statistically significantly more effective than placebo in improving non-sleep Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HAM-D) items (HAM-D-17 total minus scores from Items 4, 5, and 6). Numerical improvement in HAM-D sleep total (sum of HAM-D Items 4, 5, and 6) was also seen for fluoxetine versus placebo. Fluoxetine did not exacerbate sleep disturbance either at Week 1 or at endpoint. These findings suggest that fluoxetine is an effective antidepressant in patients with baseline sleep disturbance, melancholia, and reduced REM latency.

UI  - 7491372
TI  - Patterns of improvement in depressive symptoms with fluoxetine treatment.
AB  - By definition, patients who respond to antidepressant treatment show significant improvements in most, if not all, of their depressive symptoms. We assessed the patterns of change in depressed outpatients treated openly with fluoxetine 20 mg/day for 8 weeks. We studied 62 depressed outpatients with major depressive disorder who showed full response following fluoxetine treatment. Analysis of the data revealed that the symptoms that tended to improve relatively early during treatment were suicidal ideation, excessive guilt, and lack of appetite. Our tentative conclusion from this pilot study was that symptom improvement tends to occur in both cognitive and neurovegetative areas early in treatment as well as later.

UI  - 7701038
TI  - Clinical and polysomnographic effects of trazodone CR in chronic insomnia associated with dysthymia.
AB  - Six middle aged subjects complaining of chronic insomnia associated with dysthymia were investigated in a 2-month single blind study: a 7-day placebo treatment period, followed by a 6-week phase with increasing doses of trazodone controlled release (CR) formulation (50 mg through days 8-10; 75 mg through days 11-13; 150 mg through days 14-49) and then a final 7-day withdrawal period under placebo. Medication was always administered at bedtime. Five polysomnographic recordings were accomplished by each subject (sleep 1: under baseline placebo; sleep 2-3-4; under active treatment; sleep 5: after drug discontinuation). A "blind" EEG reader analysed the traditional polysomnographic variables (macrostructure of sleep) and the amount and percentage ratio (CAP rate) of cyclic alternating pattern (CAP), the microstructural parameter that measures the instability of arousal during sleep. Visual analogue scales (VAS) for the evaluation of subjective sleep quality and the Hamilton rating scale for depression (HAM-D) were regularly assessed across the study. Statistical analysis was based on an ANOVA test with repeated measures completed by means of Bonferroni adjusted probabilities. No significant differences emerged from the macrostructural parameters referred to sleep initiation and maintenance, while significant overall modifications emerged from stage 2 (P < 0.0005), slow wave sleep (P < 0.0001), total CAP time (P < 0.0001) and CAP rate (P < 0.0001). Compared to the placebo baseline night, a significant increase of slow wave sleep (+40 min) and significant reductions of stage 2 (-67 min), CAP time (-90 min) and CAP rate (-23%) were already found on day 4 of treatment (sleep 2).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

UI  - 7894540
TI  - Effect of hypnotic drugs on sleep architecture.
AB  - It is widely accepted that the conventional polysomnographic parameters (macrostructure of sleep) supply only rough information for clinical purposes. In particular, they often appear inadequate to support a diagnosis of insomnia or the effectiveness of a hypnotic compound. In the past years, attention has been focused on the microstructure of sleep, and especially on the periodic distribution of arousal-related phasic events known as Cyclic Alternating Pattern (CAP). This microstructural rhythm is not only a physiological component of normal NREM sleep, but it also appears highly sensitive in the detection of disturbing factors and drug manipulation. Regardless of the specific context, CAP always translates a condition of arousal instability during sleep. Accordingly, the higher the amount of CAP, the poorer the subjective quality of sleep. In young adults, the physiological amount of CAP Rate (percentage ratio of CAP time to NREM sleep time) ranges around 25%, while CAP Rate rises to 55% when sleep is perturbed by continuous white noise (situational insomnia). The analysis of CAP Rate within this framework of situational insomnia is recommended for evaluating the effects of hypnotic drugs under controlled experimental conditions. Therapeutical doses of zolpidem preserve the regular course of sleep both at the macro- and at the microstructural level, when sleep is recorded under basal conditions. In contrast, during acoustic perturbation, zolpidem reduces the pathological amounts of arousal instability by lowering the values of CAP Rate to 38%.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

UI  - 7894539
TI  - Zolpidem: clinical experience in psychiatric settings.
AB  - Zolpidem, a new short-acting non benzodiazepine hypnotic with high selectivity for benzodiazepine--1/Omega-I receptors and with lack of tolerance and physical dependence in animal models and lack of withdrawal phenomena even after up to 180 days treatment has recently been introduced. Data from clinical trials show a comparable effectiveness in inducing and maintaining sleep to comparative drugs (benzodiazepines) and besides that, it seems to preserve--even improve sleep-architecture and lastly preserve daytime wakefulness. Very few studies have been conducted in psychiatric patients, but also in this group effectiveness has been shown, and from daily clinical experience, this picture seems to hold. It must be remembered, that psychiatric patients have a high level of symptomatic benzodiazepine and/or alcohol misuse disposing to withdrawal and abstinence states in which zolpidem is less effective presumedly reflecting its selectivity. Having passed the withdrawal states, zolpidem can be used as an effective and safe hypnotic.

UI  - 8010365
TI  - Trazodone for antidepressant-associated insomnia.
AB  - Trazodone is an effective hypnotic for patients with antidepressant-associated insomnia.

UI  - 7972349
TI  - Zolpidem and rebound insomnia--a double-blind, controlled polysomnographic study in chronic insomniac patients.
AB  - In a parallel-group, placebo-controlled, polysomnographic study with randomization, the possible occurrence of rebound insomnia was evaluated in 24 patients suffering from moderate to severe chronic insomnia and receiving either triazolam 0.5 mg, zolpidem 10 mg, or placebo. Treatment duration was 27 nights, followed by three placebo-controlled withdrawal nights. Both drugs showed significant efficacy compared to placebo during the active treatment period. A trend toward tolerance was noted in the triazolam group but not in the zolpidem one. The increase in total sleep time in the zolpidem group was accompanied by an increase in the number of sleep cycles. When active treatment was discontinued, clear rebound insomnia was present in the triazolam group while it was not possible to observe any rebound in the placebo and zolpidem groups. Subjective feelings of the patients, which were assessed by means of visual analog scales, correlated well with polysomnographic data. Our findings tend to indicate that, even after long-term treatment, zolpidem does not induce rebound insomnia or daytime anxiety.

UI  - 7973199
TI  - Randomized, double blind trial of zolpidem 10 mg versus triazolam 0.25 mg for treatment of insomnia in general practice.
AB  - On a short-term basis administration of zolpidem (10 mg) appeared as effective and well tolerated as triazolam (0.25 mg)--and thus zolpidem constitutes a suitable alternative for the treatment of insomnia in general practice.

UI  - 8071269
TI  - A multicenter, placebo-controlled study evaluating zolpidem in the treatment of chronic insomnia.
AB  - This is the first sleep laboratory study using a parallel placebo group to demonstrate efficacy for longer than 4 weeks with a hypnotic agent. In this study 10 mg of zolpidem was found to be safe and effective for the long-term treatment of chronic insomnia, demonstrating hypnotic efficacy without affecting sleep stages or producing tolerance effects, rebound effects, or detrimental effects on psychomotor performance. The 15-mg zolpidem dosage provided no clinical advantage over the 10-mg zolpidem dosage.

UI  - 7913452
TI  - Educational visiting and hypnosedative prescribing in general practice.
AB  - Public concern about the prescription of hypnosedative drugs (mostly benzodiazepines) led to a controlled trial of an educational intervention to promote rational prescribing by general practitioners (GPs). This paper describes the educational intervention and its process evaluation. In urban and rural New South Wales 137 GPs were visited in office hours by a GP or pharmacist who had undergone communication skills training. Material offered to GPs included relaxation tapes and a booklet of problem-orientated management guidelines. The interview had three stages: rapport was established, then educational material was introduced and finally the visitor sought the doctor's agreement to review five patients on long-term benzodiazepines. The visits were well received. Several measures were composed to reflect doctors' motivation and interest in non-drug management; there was virtually no correlation between any of these process measures and the trial outcome: a change in prescribing behaviour. Self-rating of benzodiazepine prescribing greatly underestimated actual self-reported incidents of prescribing. We interpret this as a reminder that we do not always do what we mean to do, and that we do not always do what we think we do.

UI  - 7915708
TI  - Evaluation of the safety and efficacy of quazepam for the treatment of insomnia in psychiatric outpatients.
AB  - This open-label study in 2,813 outpatients provided evidence that quazepam reduces the complaints of insomnia in a difficult-to-treat psychiatric population after 1 night and after 7 nights of treatment. Quazepam was well tolerated, even when coadministered with psychotherapeutic medications, some of which can cause insomnia.

UI  - 8170529
TI  - Insomnia in generalized anxiety disorder: polysomnographic, psychometric and clinical investigations before, during and after therapy with a long- versus a short-half-life benzodiazepine (quazepam versus triazolam).
AB  - Within a double-blind, comparative study on the effects of the long-half-life benzodiazepine (BDZ), quazepam, and the short-half-life BDZ, triazolam, on clinical symptomatology, sleep and anxiety of 45 patients with insomnia based on a mild to moderate generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) (ICD-9 code: 307.42-1, 300,0; ASDC-APSS-Code: A.2.a), we compared, in a first step at baseline, drug-free polysomnographic and psychometric data of 22 patients recorded in the laboratory (L-group) and 21 patients recorded by the Oxford Medilog 9000 system at home (H-group) with those of normal controls. Sleep efficiency, total sleep time, wake within total sleep period (middle insomnia) and wake before buzzer (late insomnia) were significantly deteriorated in both patient groups as compared with controls, while sleep induction time only differed significantly in home recordings. Regarding sleep architecture, stage (S)2 was reduced, S3 and S4 increased in the H-group only, while no intergroup differences were seen in S1, SREM and REM latency. Subjective sleep quality was reduced in both patient groups, but not awakening quality. Psychometric tests in the morning demonstrated for the noopsyche, only a significantly deteriorated psychomotor activity in both patient groups. In the thymopsyche, evening well-being and mood in the morning were reduced in both the L- and H-group, affectivity and morning well-being only in the H-group. The psychopharmacological part of the study was completed by 40 patients (there were 4 drop-outs in the triazolam, 1 in the quazepam group). They were treated after 1 week placebo with either 15-30 mg (median 15 mg) quazepam or 0.25-0.5 mg (median 0.25 mg) triazolam for 4 weeks, and thereafter for 2 weeks with placebo. Anxiety (rated by HAMA and SAS) improved significantly with both drugs and remained improved throughout 2 weeks post-drug placebo, with quazepam being slightly superior to triazolam. Polysomnography demonstrated a shortened sleep onset only after quazepam. Sleep efficiency improved after acute administration of both drugs, but the improvement was maintained by quazepam only (tolerance development with triazolam). Rebound insomnia was observed only in the 1st post-triazolam placebo night (significant intergroup difference based on confirmatory testing). S2 increased, S3 + S4 decreased under and after quazepam, which represents a normalization in home-recorded GAD patients. S1 decreased with both drugs, SREM only under quazepam. Subjective sleep quality behaved very similarly to objective sleep efficiency. Awakening quality improved after acute therapy with both drugs, somatic complaints only with quazepam.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

UI  - 8010509
TI  - [Insomnia and its treatment during the postoperative period].
AB  - A total of 108 patients have filled in questionnaires on falling asleep, sleeping, night awakenings and other characteristics. Their answers have been analysed and it was concluded that night sleep of patients especially in the postoperative period was characterized by prolonged period of falling asleep (over 30 min in 50% of patients), reduced duration, in 77% of patients night awakenings have been recorded. The use of analgin (1000 mg) in combination with dimedrol (10 mg), promedol (20 mg) for tramal (100 mg) for normalization of sleep in the postoperative period was of little efficacy. Therapy of night sleep disturbances will improve the patients' condition and enhance the efficacy of management after surgical interventions.

UI  - 7975988
TI  - [The clinical evaluation of the action of Imovane on patients with insomnia].
AB  - 

UI  - 7948056
TI  - Treatment of primary insomnia with trimipramine: an alternative to benzodiazepine hypnotics?
AB  - A group of 19 middle aged patients suffering from primary insomnia according to the DSM-III-R were treated in a single-blind study with trimipramine, a sedating antidepressant. A total of 15 patients completed the study protocol and were evaluated. The present pilot study aimed at investigating the sleep-inducing properties of trimipramine, and at clarifying the question of whether short- or long-term rebound insomnia occurs after discontinuation of this drug. At four measurement points, i.e. under baseline conditions, under treatment and 4 and 14 days after drug discontinuation, sleep was recorded with an ambulatory-electroencephalogram (EEG) monitoring device in the patient's home environment. Simultaneously, psychometric tests were applied to measure withdrawal symptoms, subjective sleep quality and well-being during daytime. Trimipramine at a mean dose of 166 +/- 48 mg led to a significant increase in sleep efficiency, total sleep time, and stage 2% sleep-period time (SPT), whereas a significant decrease in wake time and stage 1% SPT was noted. Insomniac patients reported an improvement in subjectively perceived sleep quality following trimipramine. Additionally, an improvement in well-being during the daytime occurred. Negative side effects were limited to dry mouth due to the anticholinergic properties of the drug. Discontinuation of trimipramine did not provoke either short- or long-term rebound insomnia in objective and subjective sleep measurements considering mean values of the whole sample, although a subgroup of patients did display total sleep times below baseline values during short- and long-term withdrawal, but generally without a concomitant worsening of sleep quality according to the sleep questionnaire.

UI  - 7868847
TI  - Zopiclone improves sleep quality and daytime well-being in insomniac patients: comparison with triazolam, flunitrazepam and placebo.
AB  - In a randomized, double-blind, parallel group study in private practice, zopiclone given for 28 days was compared with flunitrazepam, triazolam and placebo in its effect on quality of sleep and daytime well-being in 1507 patients suffering from insomnia. For quantitative assessment, patients were defined as responders according to either a shortening of sleep latency by at least 15 min, or prolongation of total sleep time by at least 20%, or reduction of the number of nocturnal awakenings to three or less and a fresh feeling in the morning, as well as lack of impairment in daytime well-being as a result of tiredness or anxiety. The responder rate tended to be higher with zopiclone (37.4%) than with flunitrazepam (30%) and triazolam (32.2%) and was significantly greater (p = 0.0017) than with placebo (26.8%). Daytime well-being was particularly responsive to zopiclone and most responsive in severe insomniacs. With the exception of those to triazolam, rates of response were most pronounced in patients with insomnia of a short duration (< or = 1 year) than in those with insomnia of a longer duration (> or = 1 year). Following discontinuation of treatment, all groups showed a moderate reduction in therapeutic effect, but no rebound insomnia occurred.

UI  - 8143886
TI  - Pilot controlled double-blind study of the hypnotic effects of zolpidem in patients with chronic 'learned' insomnia: psychometric and polysomnographic evaluation.
AB  - In a pilot double-blind trial in 21 patients with learned or idiopathic insomnia (DSM-IIIR), patients received placebo for 1 week (nights 1-7), either active (zolpidem, 10 mg) or placebo treatment for 2 weeks (nights 8-21) and then placebo for a further week (nights 22-28). Variables to measure efficacy, rebound and withdrawal were assessed daily from day 1 to day 28. Polysomnographic recordings together with sleep cycle analysis were performed on nights 7, 21 and 28. Patients treated with 10 mg zolpidem for 2 weeks had significantly improved sleep efficiency at the end of the randomised double-blind phase compared with the placebo group. Fractionated sleep-cycle analysis showed an increase in slow-wave sleep during the first 2-hour cycle after sleep onset. During the withdrawal placebo week, most of the main sleep variables remained relatively stable in the zolpidem group (nights 22-28), and deteriorated further in the placebo group. At the end of the withdrawal phase, there was a statistically significant difference between groups, in favour of the zolpidem treatment, in sleep efficiency, total sleep time, absolute and percentage of time awake, and percentage of REM sleep. REM sleep, which was normal in both groups at baseline, decreased significantly in the placebo group between nights 22 and 28 (during the withdrawal placebo week) compared with the zolpidem treatment group, and the number of periods of time awake increased. Minor subjective complaints were recorded under zolpidem and were comparable with those under placebo. Zolpidem seemed to improve some important sleep variables, when assessed both objectively and subjectively. The sleep cycle analysis suggested a possible shift of slow-wave sleep to an earlier period of the night, with a more physiological sleep structure. There was no evidence for withdrawal or rebound after stopping the 2 weeks of zolpidem treatment, but rather signs that the effect of zolpidem outlasted active treatment. The present pilot study justifies a prospective confirmatory comparison of zolpidem with benzodiazepines in an adequate number of patients and withdrawal after 6-8 weeks of treatment.

UI  - 8290859
TI  - The effects of ritanserin on mood and sleep in abstinent alcoholic patients.
AB  - A trial was carried out to determine the effect of ritanserin or a placebo on sleep and mood in two groups of abstinent alcoholic patients. Their condition was characterized by both alcohol dependence and dysthymia, associated with a personality disorder. They were included in the study after 30 days of sobriety. Ritanserin was given at a daily dose of 10 mg for 28 days and was preceded (10 days) and followed (2 days) by a placebo. Plasma ritanserin concentration after administration of the 28th dose was higher than after the first dose. Peak levels of ritanserin from the first to the 28th dose increased approximately three-fold. In the ritanserin group there was a reduction of total waking time. Total sleep time increase was associated with significantly larger amounts of nonrapid eye movement sleep. Slow wave sleep and rapid eye movement sleep (in minutes or as a percent of total sleep time) were not significantly modified. Patients on ritanserin achieved a progressive improvement of their dysthymia. As compared to the placebo group, a statistically significant decrease of the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression and Hamilton Rating Scale for Anxiety was found in the ritanserin group after 1 week of treatment. The absence of an effect in the placebo-treated group suggests that the clinical response and sleep improvement were mainly related to ritanserin administration.

UI  - 8302193
TI  - [Treatment of insomnia related to depressive disorders. Effects of zolpidem versus flunitrazepam administration and withdrawal evaluated in a double-blind study].
AB  - The effects of a 15 day treatment with zolpidem (10 mg) and with flunitrazepam (1 mg) on Insomnia Disorders Related to Depressive Disorders (DSM-III-R) have been evaluated on 30 depressive in-patients (mean age 42.3 +/- 9.8). The trial has been carried out on double blind condition after 5 days of single blind placebo administration. Withdrawal effects have been evaluated in single blind condition on a 10 day period after drugs discontinuation. Patient's diagnosis was Major Depression or Dysthymia according to DSM-III-R; inclusion criteria were insomnia (total sleep time < or = 6 h, sleep latency > or = 30 min, wake after sleep onset > or = 30 min, No of awakenings > or = 3) refractory to clomipramine administration at constant dose (75-150 mg/day among patients). Both drugs have been followed by a rapid, significant diminution of insomnia as demonstrated by significant changes at Stanford Sleepiness Scale and Saint Mary Hospital Sleep Questionnaire and by a significant reduction of HDRS total scores. No clinical phenomena of rebound insomnia were detected after zolpidem and flunitrazepam withdrawal. Drug discontinuation however was followed by the slow increase of the score on insomnia items, approximating basal values at the end of the 10 day period after zolpidem and flunitrazepam withdrawal. A parallel increase of HDRS total score was also detected; HDRS changes were mainly due to the increase of the items anxiety somatic, general somatic symptoms, gastrointestinal somatic symptoms, hypochondriasis. The study confirms the therapeutic efficacy of zolpidem and of flunitrazepam in the treatment of insomnia resistant to antidepressant drugs in depressed patients. They also suggest that early drug discontinuation is frequently associated with clinical relapse of insomnia and of several other symptoms correlated with the affective pathology.

UI  - 8328575
TI  - Effectiveness of combined triazolam-behavioral therapy for primary insomnia.
AB  - The authors examined sleep improvement in subjects with primary insomnia who received triazolam plus behavioral therapy (N = 8) or triazolam plus sleep-related information (N = 7). At follow-up, total sleep and restedness in the morning showed greater improvement with combined triazolam-behavioral therapy and returned toward baseline in the control subjects.

UI  - 8401679
TI  - A comparative multicenter study of two transdermal estradiol replacement therapies in the treatment of postmenopausal symptoms.
AB  - Considering all efficacy variables, 53% of Systen and 46% of Estraderm patients found the therapy satisfactory. Tolerability was somewhat higher in the Systen group. Adhesiveness of the patch was significantly better for Systen. Overall, 79% of Systen patients and 62% of Estraderm patients evaluated treatment as "good" or "very good." The majority of patients in both groups found the patch very comfortable or only slightly obtrusive.

UI  - 8112475
TI  - Long-term polysomnographic study of the efficacy and safety of zolpidem in elderly psychiatric in-patients with insomnia.
AB  - The effects of 20 mg zolipidem were studied in an open, polysomnographically-monitored 179 day trial in 14 elderly psychiatric patients suffering from severe insomnia. After a placebo run-in of 7 days, zolpidem was given for 179 days followed by a 30-day wash-out period. Polysomnographic recordings (PSG) were performed just before active treatment; 30, 90 and 179 days into the treatment period; and at the end of the wash-out period. Statistically significant improvements in total sleep time, sleep efficiency and percentage of rapid eye movement sleep were observed after 30 days, all of which were maintained at 179 days. Sleep stages 1-4 all changed, with a significant decrease in percentage of stage 1, and a significant increase in both percentages of stage 2 and 3, and duration of stages 3 and 4 at the end of active treatment. After a 90-day follow-up period, only stage 3 sleep and sleep efficiency were no longer significantly changed compared to baseline, all other criteria showing maintenance of efficacy. Slow-wave sleep, which was increased during active treatment, decreased in the follow-up period. No serious adverse events were observed. These results suggest that, contrary to other hypnotics, zolpidem, after long-term administration, improves objective sleep parameters and may normalize a disturbed sleep architecture.

UI  - 8098502
TI  - [Abrupt shift to zolpidem, a new imidazopyridine hypnotic, in insomniac patients previously treated with benzodiazepine hypnotics].
AB  - Zolpidem is a new imidazopyridine hypnotic with a pharmacological profile substantially different from benzodiazepines. In this observational multicenter study the possibility of shifting to zolpidem (10 mg at N1, 15 or 20 after N1) insomniac patients previously taking (for at least 15 days and not longer than 3 months) standard posology of triazolam (0.125-0.25 mg), lorazepam (1 mg) or lormetazepam (1 mg) was assessed. For ethical reasons the patients were mandatorily to be insomniacs despite their taking hypnotics or not tolerating them. Patients enrolled were 299 of whom 276 evaluable (139 males and 136 females; mean age 48.67 +/- 14.64, range 18-83). Study duration was 7 nights with visits at N0 (baseline), N1 (after 1st night), N3 (after 3rd night) and N7 (final evaluation); on each visit the Saint Mary Hospital Sleep Questionnaire and the benzodiazepine withdrawal symptom's rating scale were administered; moreover, after N7, investigators were asked a judgement of feasibility of such a shift. In 229 (83.5%) out of 274 patients such a shift to zolpidem was considered successfully (no occurrence of symptoms and/or signs of previously taken hypnotic withdrawal); in the remaining 45 patients, just 17 (6.2%) seemed to be real unsuccessful cases (reactions mild and transient, anyhow). In conclusion abrupt shift to zolpidem appeared to be largely feasible in the patients studied.

UI  - 8458042
TI  - Multicenter, double-blind, controlled comparison of zolpidem and triazolam in elderly patients with insomnia.
AB  - The efficacy and safety of zolpidem, a hypnotic of a new chemical class (the imidazopyridines), was compared with a reference benzodiazepine in elderly insomniac patients in a randomized, double-blind, multicenter trial. Hospitalized patients aged 58 to 98 years were randomized to receive zolpidem 5 mg (70 patients), zolpidem 10 mg (74 patients), or triazolam 0.25 mg (77 patients) at bed-time. (Three patients were excluded and 13 patients did not complete the study.) The 3-week active treatment period was preceded by 3 and followed by 7 days of placebo administration. Sleep quality was assessed by the patient via a questionnaire and visual analog scale. A clinician's global impression was also recorded. All measures of sleep quality were improved by both doses of zolpidem and by triazolam. The improvements between the end of the placebo phase and the end of the active treatment phase were significant for all treatments and assessment instruments. Moreover, the significant improvements in all measures were maintained during the week following withdrawal of both doses of zolpidem. The improvement in most sleep assessment parameters was maintained after withdrawal of triazolam. Tolerability of all treatments was excellent. The majority of patients reported no adverse effects. The reported adverse effects in all groups included nightmares, daytime drowsiness, and day- or nighttime agitation. There was no evidence of rebound insomnia; the therapeutic effect of zolpidem outlasted drug treatment. There were no signs of agitation or anxiety following cessation of treatment, which might be indicative of withdrawal phenomena. Confusion was recorded only in the triazolam group. These results suggest that zolpidem is at least as effective as triazolam in geriatric insomniac patients. Zolpidem 5 mg and 10 mg demonstrated a good safety profile. On the basis of these data, zolpidem 5 mg should be given as a starting dose in elderly patients, with a possible increase up to 10 mg in more severe cases of insomnia.

UI  - 8428895
TI  - Feasibility of an every-other-night regimen in insomniac patients: subjective hypnotic effectiveness of quazepam, triazolam, and placebo.
AB  - The efficiency of alternate-night therapy with quazepam should be rigorously evaluated using polysomnographic determinations.

UI  - 8405006
TI  - The effect of midazolam on transient insomnia.
AB  - We have assessed the effect of midazolam on sleep in a model of transient insomnia in healthy adults using polysomnographic recordings. The subjects were randomly assigned to one of three treatment groups (placebo or midazolam 7.5 or 15 mg) and spent a single night in the sleep laboratory. Midazolam or placebo were given double-blind immediately before turning off the lights. Midazolam 15 mg was effective in inducing sleep, while 7.5 mg and 15 mg produced improvement in the maintenance of sleep. Subjectively, sleep latency and the number of awakenings were reduced dose-dependently. Midazolam did not impair psychomotor performance on the morning after administration.

UI  - 8202870
TI  - Placebo-controlled clinical trial of Dormicum 15-mg tablet.
AB  - In 60 insomnia patients placebo-controlled clinical examinations were performed with Dormicum hypnotic containing 15 mg midazolam active substance and made available by EGIS Pharmaceuticals. The patients involved in the study lived a normal life and belonged to both sexes. In the introduction the author summarizes the different forms of pathological sleep and discusses the pharmacology of some hypnotics on the basis of which a detailed, multifactorial, up-to-date clinical examination of a hypnotic should be planned. He uses up-to-date methods and means for the examination of the drug which meet the requirements of an adequate clinical testing of a hypnotic. The sleep disturbances of the patients have been classified and characterized by the author from the somnological aspects and with somnological methods. Patients with sleep onset, sleep maintenance, early morning, as well as mixed insomnias were differentiated. The effectivity of the drug was evaluated on the basis of data of sleep questionnaires referring to the target symptoms and the results of 24-hour polygraphic monitorings performed in 18 patients. In addition, the eventual hangover effect of the drug was assessed in these patients on the basis of the changes in reaction time, pulse rate, and skin resistance measured by polygraphy, besides placebo control on the day following the intake of the drug. The neurological and other organic side-effects were also examined and registered by means of the self-evaluating questionnaires, target specific interviewing of the patients, as well as by laboratory examinations. The drug proved to be most valuable as a hypnotic in patients with sleep onset and mixed insomnias. The hypnotic action was not so definite in sleep maintenance insomnias, the poorest responses were obtained in early morning insomnia cases. According to the results of polygraphic sleep examinations the two first sleep cycles become normal following the intake of the hypnotic. Parameters characteristic of REM sleep do not show changes. In the examined patients the number of side- and hangover effects attributable to the drug was very low. The author calls the attention to the importance of the observance of the dosage and administration of the drug which may prevent the development of a great number of side-effects. By giving a detailed description of a case history of an insomniac patient the author illustrates how the application field of midazolam may be further extended--within the frames of a sleep therapeutic process.

UI  - 1486827
TI  - [Periodic discharges of sleep spindles with placebo and zopiclone].
AB  - According to our experiences (parietal) sleep spindles often show a periodical appearance. Successive sleep spindles in series have a distance of about four seconds. In 95% the duration of such series of sleep spindles is not longer than 40 s, so that there appears no more than ten successive periodical sleep spindles. In the present study ten subjects aged between 57 and 77 years were given Placebo and 7.5 mg Zopiclone. Under the effect of verum we found a doubling of sleep spindle series. However, the distance between the periodical spindles and the length of the spindle series remained unchanged. The variance in the ability to generate sleep spindle series was very high across subjects. One subject for example produced only one sleep spindle series in the Placebo-night (three under verum) and another subject on the other hand 95 (under verum 130). The results of the present study well corresponding to the results of a former investigation comparing Placebo, Pentobarbital, Methaqualon, Carbromal, Flunitrazepam, Triazolam and Lormetazepam.

UI  - 1297939
TI  - A comparison of efficacy and tolerance of the short acting sedatives midazolam and zopiclone.
AB  - Zopiclone 7.5 mg daily improved more items on the LSEQ than midazolam 15 mg daily but was associated with significant rebound insomnia. Adverse reactions were frequent with both drugs.

UI  - 1521671
TI  - A double-blind, comparative study of zolpidem and placebo in the treatment of insomnia in elderly psychiatric in-patients.
AB  - The efficacy and tolerability of the imidazopyridine hypnotic, zolpidem, were investigated in 119 elderly psychiatric in-patients complaining of insomnia in a double-blind, parallel-group, placebo-controlled trial. After a 7-day placebo washout period, patients were randomized to receive 10 or 20 mg/day zolpidem, or placebo for 21 days; thereafter, all patients received placebo for 7 days. Sleep was assessed by patient observation on days 0, 1, 7, 14, 21, 22 and 28. Compared with placebo, 20 mg/day zolpidem significantly improved total duration of sleep between day 0 and day 21, and this was maintained at day 28. After 10 or 20 mg/day zolpidem, there was also a trend towards improvement in all other sleep parameters, which remained above baseline at day 28. Zolpidem was well tolerated with no withdrawal symptoms during the second 7-day placebo treatment period. Daytime drowsiness was reported in three patients receiving 20 mg/day zolpidem and in one receiving 10 mg/day zolpidem, but there was no significant increase in daytime drowsiness between days 0 and 21. Ataxia occurred in two, one and one patient, respectively, treated with 20 mg/day zolpidem, 10 mg/day zolpidem and placebo. The incidences of other adverse events or effects on clinical and laboratory parameters were minimal and similar in all three treatment groups. It is concluded that, in elderly psychiatric patients, 10 mg/day zolpidem can be used to treat insomnia and can be safely added to concomitant psychotropic treatment without inducing daytime drowsiness.

UI  - 1557595
TI  - Evaluation of EEG cyclic alternating pattern during sleep in insomniacs and controls under placebo and acute treatment with zolpidem.
AB  - In nonrapid eye movement (NREM) sleep, electroencephalographic cyclic alternating patterns (CAPS) express the organized complexity of arousal-related phasic events. As a translation of sustained instability of the arousal level, CAPS increase under perturbation and decrease under sleep-promoting conditions. After adaptation to the sleep lab, 18 subjects (12 with persistent psychophysiological insomnia and 6 without sleep complaints), all aged 40-60 years, underwent a random sequence of two nonconsecutive nocturnal recordings, one under placebo and one under an imidazopyridine hypnotic agent (zolpidem). The choice of this drug was oriented by its capability to warrant, at the selected dose of 10 mg, a physiological profile of sleep. Polysomnographic parameters and self-report of sleep quality by means of visual analogue scale (VAS) were assessed by analysis of variance followed by a Scheff test when F statistics were significant. The placebo nights of controls showed a significantly longer duration of total sleep time (+60 minutes) compared with the placebo nights of insomniacs. However, no relevant differences emerged from the other traditional polysomnographic variables. Conversely, CAP rate (CAP time x 100/NREM sleep time) showed highly sensitive and consistent modifications. Under placebo, CAP rate was significantly higher among insomniacs compared with controls (62.2% vs. 38.5%). Under medication, CAP rate dropped to 26.8% in insomniacs, whereas it was only moderately reduced in controls (31%). CAP rate values paralleled the self-rating estimation of sleep quality, but the VAS means differed significantly only among insomniacs where a sharp average fall from 45 mm (placebo nights) to 15 mm (zolpidem nights) could be detected. Our findings suggest that CAP rate in sleep analysis can represent a useful tool for the diagnosis of insomnia and for gaining insight into the therapeutic efficacy of hypnotic-sedative drugs.

UI  - 1603890
TI  - Rebound insomnia and hypnotic self administration.
AB  - Twenty-one (three groups of seven), men and women, 25-50 years of age were studied to determine whether or not rebound insomnia would increase the likelihood of self administering a benzodiazepine (triazolam 0.25 mg) hypnotic. The groups compared were patients with insomnia and disturbed sleep, insomnia and normal sleep, and healthy normals. Rebound insomnia, by both subjective and polysomnographic assessment, was induced. The experience of rebound insomnia did not increase the likelihood of self administering a benzodiazepine hypnotic in any of the groups. There were clear group differences in pill self administration with normals rarely and insomnia patients frequently, but not differentially (placebo versus active drug) self administering pills.

UI  - 1579623
TI  - Effects of zolpidem and flunitrazepam on nocturnal sleep of women subjectively complaining of insomnia.
AB  - Eighteen non-pregnant woman complaining about insomnia were polysomnographically investigated for 3 nights with weekly intervals. They received placebo, 2 mg flunitrazepam or 10 mg zolpidem according to a cross-over double blind design. The patients were selected by general practitioners on the basis of subjective complaints. Zolpidem is a recently introduced short-acting imidazopyridine hypnotic, binding to a subunit of the benzodiazepine 1 receptor. Flunitrazepam is a well-known hypnotic, binding to both the benzodiazepine 1 and 2 receptor subtypes. Objective recording did not substantiate the subjective complaint of insomnia. Sleep patterns during placebo differed only little from that expected from age matched healthy persons. Both flunitrazepam and zolpidem significantly shortened sleep onset (5 min of continuous sleep beginning with NREM 1 sleep). The sleep composition following flunitrazepam was characterized by an increase in NREM 2, a prolongation of the time of REM sleep, a reduction of REM sleep and an increase in NREM 3-4 sleep during the first 2 h of sleep. The sleep composition following zolpidem resembled more than seen in persons without sleep complaints. However, as compared to placebo, there was a decrease of the time spent awake during sleep and an increase in NREM 3-4 during the first 2 of sleep.

UI  - 1410148
TI  - Rebound insomnia in normals and patients with insomnia after abrupt and tapered discontinuation.
AB  - Rebound insomnia was studied in subjects, aged 25-50 years, with insomnia complaints and normal sleep, insomnia complaints and disturbed sleep, and normal sleep with no complaints (N = 21, n = 7 per group). Standard sleep recordings were collected on a baseline night and after abrupt discontinuation of 6 nights of 0.50 mg triazolam, tapered discontinuation (3 nights of 0.50 mg, 2 nights of 0.25 mg, and 1 night of 0.125 mg triazolam) and 6 nights of placebo. Significantly disturbed sleep on the discontinuation night compared to the baseline night was found. The relative degree of rebound insomnia was greater in the abrupt condition than in either the tapered or placebo conditions. The tapered condition reduced sleep time by half that of the abrupt condition which was twice the reduction found in the placebo condition. An overall (regardless of group or condition) difference in baseline versus discontinuation sleep was found, suggesting that pill discontinuation itself leads to sleep disturbance. Subjects did not differ in rebound insomnia as a function of pre-existing sleep disturbance.

UI  - 1391671
TI  - A double-blind comparison of the effects of temazepam and triazolam on residual, daytime performance in elderly insomniacs.
AB  - Benzodiazepine hypnotic medications are widely prescribed for elderly patients, but there is a paucity of information available concerning the residual cognitive and psychomotor (the morning-after) effects of these drugs. We compared two commonly used hypnotics--temazepam and triazolam--in a double-blind, placebo-controlled, single-dose study with community-dwelling healthy elderly with a DSM-III-R diagnosis of primary insomnia. Forty-five subjects over the age of 65 (mean age 72.23, SD = 4.44) qualified for the study. Subjects were randomly assigned to one of five treatment groups (placebo, triazolam 0.125 mg., triazolam 0.25 mg., temazepam 15 mg., and temazepam 30 mg.). Neuropsychological testing was completed at baseline and 12-14 hours after the dosing. Patients were evaluated with a variety of tests that measured attention, concentration, motor speed, immediate memory, and learning of new information. Separate repeated measured analyses of variance were performed to assess the significant changes among the five treatment groups. We found improved performance or no change in all the measures for all medication groups except for impairment of performance on a serial learning task for both high-dose medication groups. The significance of these results and the need for further research in elderly insomniacs is discussed.

UI  - 1361968
TI  - Pattern recognition by matched filtering: an analysis of sleep spindle and K-complex density under the influence of lormetazepam and zopiclone.
AB  - The evaluation of sleep EEG patterns is mostly accomplished by visual analysis. With modern personal computers however, it is possible to perform signal detection within a reasonable length of time automatically. This paper presents a method for signal processing based on matched filtering. This allows the detection of sleep spindles and K-complexes in a sleep EEG recording with a high degree of accuracy. First the technique is described, and the results of a validation study based on the comparison of visual evaluations and computer analysis are presented. Thereafter, results of an application study are presented. Sleep spindle and K-complex density under the influence of lormetazepam and zopiclone were examined. Under both medications sleep spindle density increased while K-complex density decreased. Computation of Pearson's correlation coefficients demonstrated that the interindividual sleep spindle and K-complex variations under both treatments are highly correlated. The data suggest that lormetazepam and zopiclone, although chemically different, have a similar mode of action and display comparable effects on the sleep EEG.

UI  - 1299797
TI  - Topographical analysis of sleep spindle activity.
AB  - There is evidence for two types of sleep spindle activity, one with a frequency of about 12 cycles/s (cps) and the other of about 14 cps. Visual examination indicates that both spindle types occur independently, whereby the 12-cps spindles are more pronounced in the frontal and the 14-cps spindles in the parietal region. The purpose of this paper is to provide more information about the exact topography of these patterns. First the occurrence of distinct signals in anterior and posterior brain regions was verified using pattern recognition techniques based on matched filtering. Thus the existence of two distinct sources of activity located in the frontal and parietal region of the brain, respectively, was demonstrated using EEG frequency mapping. Evaluation of sleep recordings showed high stability both in the frequency and location of the presumed spindle generators across sleep. Pharmacological effects of lormetazepam and zopiclone on both spindle types were investigated. Both substances enhanced the sleep spindle activity recorded from the frontal and parietal electrodes, but this increase was more pronounced in the parietal brain region.

UI  - 1776591
TI  - A single-dose study of the pharmacodynamic effects of chlormethiazole, temazepam and placebo in elderly parkinsonian patients.
AB  - Nine elderly parkinsonian volunteers took single doses of 384 mg of chlormethiazole, 10 mg of temazepam and placebo capsules in a double-blind three-way cross-over study on separate visits at least one week apart. In the 6 hours following the dose, the level of drowsiness, performance on a series of psychomotor tests, effects on parkinsonian symptoms and signs, and standing and lying blood pressure were recorded. Chlormethiazole produced drowsiness on all tests and impaired psychomotor performance, as compared with placebo, without affecting parkinsonian symptoms and signs, or postural blood pressure. Temazepam was consistently less potent than chlormethiazole on tests of drowsiness and psychomotor performance. Both treatments were well tolerated. It is suggested that chlormethiazole is safe to use as a hypnotic at this dosage in this group of patients with Parkinson's disease, while temazepam did not appear to be effective as a hypnotic at this dosage.

UI  - 1759092
TI  - Subjective versus objective evaluation of hypnotic efficacy: experience with zolpidem.
AB  - There is little published literature on the correlation between subjective and objective efficacy of hypnotics. We wanted to determine whether there was a correlation between the patient's subjective evaluation of the efficacy of the hypnotic with the polysomnographic (PSG) findings. We studied 16 patients with chronic insomnia (sleep latency, greater than or equal to 30 minutes; total sleep time, greater than 240 but less than 420 minutes) for 11 nights who took placebos on nights 1 and 2, zolpidem (imidazopyridine) on nights 3-9 and placebo on nights 10 and 11. Patients completed a questionnaire each morning following PSG, which evaluated subjective sleep quality, sleep latency and total sleep time. These data were compared to PSG findings to answer specific questions about sleep latency reduction, efficacy of the hypnotic after a week's use, sleep quality after discontinuing the drug, and any correlation between subjective and objective measures. PSG findings indicated a shortened sleep latency, increased total sleep time, decreased total wake time and increased sleep efficiency when patients ingested zolpidem 30 minutes before bedtime. We found that after 7 nights (nights 3-9) the drug was still effective in reducing sleep latency and increasing total sleep time. Upon withdrawal (nights 10 and 11) sleep returned to baseline (nights 1 and 2). Subjectively, the patients confirmed those findings on the questionnaire, as well as a subjective reduction in the number of awakenings and, interestingly, a subjective increase in the time spent awake after sleep. Many of the objective variables we examined correlated highly with the subjective variables. While on zolpidem, subjects believed and were objectively shown to have a decreased sleep latency, increased total sleep time and decreased time awake before persistent sleep, although they tended to overestimate sleep latency and time spent awake before persistent sleep and underestimated total sleep time. Although the correlation between objective and subjective measures was high for the group, in individual patients there was an impressive difference between the two, and the highest coefficient of variation between a subjective and objective measures was 0.453. No correlations were found with subjective measures of refreshing quality of sleep, decrease in number of awakenings, how sleepy patients felt in the morning or their ability to concentrate in the morning. Thus, we believe the PSG remains the keystone in the evaluation of hypnotic efficacy.

UI  - 1680123
TI  - Objective measurements of daytime sleepiness and performance comparing quazepam with flurazepam in two adult populations using the Multiple Sleep Latency Test.
AB  - Daytime residual drowsiness and psychomotor performance were assessed for two long half-life benzodiazepines, quazepam and flurazepam, in two randomized, parallel, and double-blind studies in insomniacs. Seventeen middle-aged patients took quazepam 15 mg or 30 mg, or flurazepam 30 mg; the 47-night study included 4 placebo baseline nights, 28 consecutive treatment nights, and 15 posttreatment nights. Forty-eight geriatric patients took either flurazepam 15 mg, quazepam 15 mg, or placebo; the 15-night study included 1 placebo baseline night, 7 treatment nights, and 7 posttreatment nights. The Multiple Sleep Latency Test (MSLT), an objective test for measuring daytime sleepiness, and performance tests were administered. In the first study, flurazepam patients were significantly (p less than .05) sleepier after the 7th and 14th treatment nights when compared to baseline, whereas quazepam patients were not. In the second study, flurazepam patients were sleepier at midday (p less than .10) and late afternoon (p less than .05) after 1 treatment week than were quazepam and placebo patients. Performance test results suggested quazepam has a relatively low potential for daytime impairment. Thus, quazepam 15 mg produces less daytime somnolence and fewer psychomotor performance decrements than does flurazepam.

UI  - 1912128
TI  - The effects of exogenous melatonin on the total sleep time and daytime alertness of chronic insomniacs: a preliminary study.
AB  - The effects of exogenous, supraphysiologic doses of melatonin on the total sleep time and daytime alertness of patients with chronic insomnia was examined in a double blind, single crossover study. Melatonin (75 mg per os) or identical placebo was administered at 10 PM daily to 13 insomniac patients for 14 consecutive days. A significant increase in the subjective assessment of total sleep time and daytime alertness was demonstrated with melatonin but not with placebo. However, 7 of the 13 patients reported that the active treatment had no significant effect on subjective feelings of well-being.

UI  - 1918423
TI  - Estazolam treatment of insomnia in generalized anxiety disorder: a placebo-controlled study.
AB  - Estazolam, a triazolobenzodiazepine with an intermediate elimination half-life, has been shown previously to be an effective and safe hypnotic in insomniacs without concomitant psychiatric illness. Our study of the efficacy of estazolam in patients with insomnia associated with generalized anxiety disorder began when 108 patients meeting criteria for generalized anxiety disorder (mean total score of Hamilton Rating Scale for Anxiety [HAM-A] = 22.0 +/- 3.1 [SD]) and insomnia were given single-blind placebo for 7 nights. Nine patients whose anxiety and/or insomnia improved were dropped as placebo responders. The remaining 99 patients were randomly allocated (1:1) to double-blind treatment with either estazolam 2.0 mg or matching placebo for 7 nights. Hypnotic efficacy, as determined by patient-completed sleep questionnaires, was statistically significant for estazolam 2.0 mg versus placebo for all sleep indices (p less than 0.01). Patients treated with estazolam 2.0 mg showed significantly greater improvement in anxiety than those receiving placebo on the mean total score of HAM-A ([placebo, -3.4; estazolam, -7.1; p less than 0.001] and without the insomnia item [placebo, -2.7; estazolam, -5.5; p less than 0.001]). Anxiety scores on the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory showed greater improvement in the estazolam group, but without statistical significance (p = 0.237). Estazolam 2.0 mg is an effective hypnotic in patients with generalized anxiety disorder and appears to have a favorable anxiolytic action.

UI  - 1880233
TI  - Hypnotic efficacy of estazolam compared with flurazepam in outpatients with insomnia.
AB  - Estazolam is a new benzodiazepine hypnotic agent with an intermediate half-life of 12 to 15 hours. The authors designed an investigation to compare its hypnotic efficacy to that of flurazepam, generally considered the reference standard. The hypnotic efficacy of estazolam at two doses (1 mg and 2 mg) was compared with that of flurazepam (30 mg) in a double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter, 7-night study that involved 223 outpatients with insomnia. On subjective assessments of the patients, no differences were noted between estazolam 2 mg and flurazepam 30 mg on any of six sleep parameters. Patients who were receiving estazolam 1 mg rated their sleep significantly better than did patients who were receiving placebo on all parameters except sleep latency. Global evaluation of the physicians indicated significant improvement in quality of sleep, sleep depth, sleep duration, and nocturnal awakenings in all three active treatment groups; estazolam 2 mg and flurazepam also decreased sleep latency significantly. The percentage of patients who reported any adverse experience was 68% for flurazepam, 58% for estazolam 2 mg, and 54% for estazolam 1 mg; the incidence of adverse events in the placebo group was 43%. In conclusion, estazolam 2 mg was found to be as effective a hypnotic as flurazepam 30 mg. Estazolam 1 mg is also effective in the treatment of outpatients with insomnia, but to a lesser degree.

UI  - 2066457
TI  - Clonazepam: sleep laboratory study of efficacy and withdrawal.
AB  - Clonazepam 0.5 mg was evaluated in a sleep laboratory study of 6 insomniac patients. The 16-night protocol consisted of 4 placebo-baseline nights, 7 nights of drug administration and 5 placebo-withdrawal nights. Clonazepam produced a significant decrease in total wake time initially (nights 5-7), as well as with continued administration (nights 9-11). With later but not immediate withdrawal, significant rebound insomnia occurred, on the 3rd withdrawal night, both wake time after sleep onset and total wake time increased markedly, with the latter significantly increased. These findings are discussed in light of clonazepam's increasing use for panic disorder; specifically, due to its maintained efficacy, it has the advantage of avoiding interdose rebound anxiety which is frequently reported with use of alprazolam.

UI  - 1670039
TI  - Long-term treatment of insomnia with zolpidem: a multicentre general practitioner study of 107 patients.
AB  - The effects of zolpidem, an imidazopyridine derivative, were studied in 107 patients suffering from insomnia, 60.9% of whom were over 60 years of age, in a 6-month, single-blind, flexible dose, general practitioner study. Comparison was made between baseline, last day of treatment and 10 days after the end of treatment to assess efficacy and rebound insomnia. An improvement in all efficacy parameters--time taken to fall asleep, total amount of nocturnal sleep and number of nocturnal awakenings--was reported by the investigator and the patients; the improvement was evident from the first evaluation day and was maintained throughout the trial. Improvement was also maintained during the washout period with a lack of rebound insomnia. There was no sign of withdrawal symptoms and tolerance to zolpidem did not develop over the 6-month treatment period. Adverse events were mild and infrequent, and tended to resolve with a dose reduction. It is concluded that 10 mg/day zolpidem is an appropriate starting dose and is effective and safe for the treatment of sleep disturbances of different origins.

UI  - 1672921
TI  - Next-day memory impairment with triazolam use.
AB  - The prevalence, rate, and degree of memory impairment for next-day activities during a short, intermittent course of bedtime doses of triazolam, temazepam, and placebo were assessed in a double-blind parallel-group study. 5 of the 6 subjects in the triazolam group reported at least one episode of next-day memory impairment/amnesia, with a total of 12 episodes being reported for the 30 subject-drug nights (a rate of 40%). In the temazepam group there were no such episodes of memory impairment. Immediate and delayed recall were also tested and related to whether active drug or placebo had been taken the night before. Impairment of delayed recall was significantly and several times greater than that in the temazepam or placebo groups. Next-day memory impairment/amnesia after a bedtime dose of triazolam tended to increase with continued or intermittent drug use. Cognitive impairments associated with triazolam probably represent a spectrum of organic brain dysfunction, with memory impairment/amnesia and confusion being the commonest, and milder manifestations and hallucinations and delusions the more severe and less common, features.

UI  - 2015735
TI  - Rebound insomnia after only brief and intermittent use of rapidly eliminated benzodiazepines.
AB  - In three parallel groups, brief and intermittent administration and withdrawal of triazolam, 0.5 mg, temazepam, 30 mg, and placebo were assessed in a 12-night sleep laboratory study of 18 subjects with insomnia. With this intermittent schedule both drugs improved sleep, with about one-third reduction in total wake time; this reduction was significant for temazepam but not for triazolam. Even though the periods of drug administration were quite brief, withdrawal of triazolam consistently produced rebound insomnia, with increases in total wake time above baseline of 61% and 51%, respectively, for the first night of each withdrawal period. With temazepam this effect was more variable, with total wake time increased only with the second withdrawal period (39%). Thus these findings indicate that even under conditions of brief, intermittent use and withdrawal, triazolam and, to a lesser degree, temazepam produce rebound insomnia after abrupt withdrawal, thereby predisposing to drug-taking behavior and increasing the potential for drug dependence.

UI  - 1888345
TI  - Efficacy of behavioral versus triazolam treatment in persistent sleep-onset insomnia.
AB  - Triazolam treatment showed superior immediate treatment effects, while behavioral treatment showed superior treatment effects at follow-up, effects that accrued during the training period and differentially persisted at follow-up. One treatment strategy implied by these results would be to combine these two interventions concurrently. This would seem to use the immediate effects produced by the medication until the behavioral skills were learned, at which point medication would be terminated. This strategy could offer immediate relief and sustained effects at drug termination.

UI  - 1743245
TI  - Treatment of insomnia with two benzodiazepines: a double-blind crossover study.
AB  - Twenty-eight patients (12 M, 16 F) with insomnia were treated with nitrazepam 5 mg/d and oxazepam 25 mg/d, each for 11 days, in a double-blind crossover comparison with placebo. Half the patients received nitrazepam in the first drug period, and oxazepam in the second and the other half followed the contrary sequence. Both nitrazepam and oxazepam were found to be effective in inducing sleep and increasing sleep quality. No effects on dreaming or adverse effects were found. Nitrazepam did influence the frequency of awakening, but only in the second drug period. In the first period it reduced self-waking. It is concluded that both nitrazepam and oxazepam were effective in inducing sleep and in improving sleep quality.

UI  - 2243152
TI  - Clinical evaluation of diphenhydramine hydrochloride for the treatment of insomnia in psychiatric patients: a double-blind study.
AB  - The usefulness of the antihistaminic agent diphenhydramine hydrochloride was evaluated using a double-blind procedure at sleeping doses of 12.5, 25, and 50 mg in 144 psychiatric patients with insomnia. The general condition of the patients with insomnia was at least "slightly improved" in 62.5% (12.5-mg group), 60% (25-mg group), and 67.4% (50-mg group) after treatment with the test drug for 2 weeks. Side effects were observed in a total of 11 patients (7.6%) but were not severe. No symptoms suggestive of drug dependence were evident. Global improvement was not influenced by patient background factors except for the presence or absence of previous treatment for insomnia. The hypnotic effect of diphenhydramine hydrochloride was significantly greater in patients who had not been treated previously. A dose-dependent increase in the hypnotic effect was also seen in patients who had not received any previous treatment. Diphenhydramine hydrochloride thus appears to be effective in the treatment of insomnia, but the appropriate dosage will depend on previous medical treatment of insomnia.

UI  - 2081899
TI  - Zopiclone versus flurazepam in insomnia: prolonged administration and withdrawal.
AB  - Zopiclone (7.5 mg), a cyclopyrrolone derivative with a 6.5 h half-life, and flurazepam (30 mg) were compared to placebo in a randomized double-blind study involving 36 adult patients suffering from insomnia. All previous psychotropic drugs were discontinued 1 week prior to the study. During 4 weeks, 12 patients received zopiclone, 12 flurazepam and the others placebo. Thereafter, all patients received single-blind placebo for 3 nights. Rapidity of sleep onset, sleep duration, frequency of nocturnal awakenings, psychomotor coordination and side-effects were assessed daily with a questionnaire and a symptom checklist. The results of the study suggest that zopiclone 7.5 mg was at least as potent as flurazepam 30 mg in inducing and maintaining sleep. Both drugs maintained their efficacy during the 4 weeks of treatment. However, the two drugs differed in that flurazepam impaired psychomotor coordination whereas zopiclone did not demonstrate daytime protracted effects on psychomotor performance. Upon discontinuation of drug treatment, score values of the different sleep parameters under study returned to the baseline values. Side-effects were mild and consistent with earlier studies.

UI  - 2211570
TI  - Buspirone in the management of major depression: a placebo-controlled comparison.
AB  - One hundred forty outpatients with major depression were admitted to an 8-week, placebo-controlled, double-blind study of buspirone. Entry criteria included a Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (25-item [HAM-D]) score of greater than or equal to 18 and a Hamilton Rating Scale for Anxiety (HAM-A), score of greater than or equal to 18. A flexible dose schedule ranging from 5-90 mg/day was employed. The mean dose of buspirone was 41-54 mg/day from Week 2 to the end of the study. Sixty-four percent of buspirone patients and 50% of placebo patients were melancholic; 64% of buspirone patients and 74% of placebo patients discontinued treatment before the end of the study. Extender data analysis showed that buspirone patients had significant (p less than .05) HAM-D score reductions compared with the placebo group at Weeks 2, 3, 4, and 6. The HAM-D retardation factor trended toward significance over placebo at Weeks 3, 4, and 6. HAM-D change scores for the subgroup of melancholic patients taking buspirone were significantly (p less than .02) better than those of the placebo-treated melancholic subjects at Weeks 2, 3, 4, and 6. Most other efficacy parameters also favored the buspirone-treated group over the placebo-treated group. The most common adverse experiences for the buspirone group were CNS effects (74% in the buspirone group vs. 21% in the placebo group) and gastrointestinal effects (55% in the buspirone group vs. 37% in the placebo group). Side effects consisted of dizziness, light-headedness, nausea, and headache. No serious or unexpected adverse effects occurred.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

UI  - 2211560
TI  - Increased deep sleep after trazodone use: a double-blind placebo-controlled study in healthy young adults.
AB  - The effects of trazodone on sleep were compared with those of placebo and the sedating tricyclic antidepressant trimipramine in a double-blind crossover study in six healthy young men. Only trazodone significantly increased deep sleep without otherwise altering the normal architecture of sleep. The alpha-adrenergic receptor-blocking property of trazodone and a relative lack of noradrenergic reuptake blocking and the lack of anticholinergic effects are hypothesized to be responsible for the effects on sleep.

UI  - 2242077
TI  - Dose effects of temazepam in transient insomnia.
AB  - A transient insomnia model, the "first night" effect in the sleep laboratory, was used to assess the dose range for the hypnotic and sleep stage effects of temazepam. 201 healthy, normal subjects (97 men and 104 women), 21 to 49 years old, with no sleep complaints were studied. Each was randomly assigned to receive either placebo, 7.5, 15, or 30 mg temazepam hard gelatin capsules (Restoril) administered double-blind 30 min before bedtime on their first night in the sleep laboratory. Over the 8-h polysomnogram total sleep time and sleep efficiency increased significantly in a linear fashion with increasing doses of temazepam. Sleep tendency was significantly reduced by increasing doses again in a linear manner. Wake time during the sleep period was reduced significantly only by the higher dose. The percentage of stage 1 sleep was reduced and the percentage of stage 2 sleep was increased, each linearly with increasing doses. These data are the first to demonstrate the hypnotic effects of a 7.5 mg dose of temazepam and also support previous studies of 15 and 30 mg temazepam administered to chronic insomniacs. They also illustrate the utility of the "first night" effect as a model of transient insomnia.

UI  - 2229466
TI  - A multicenter 14-day study of flurazepam and midazolam in chronic insomniacs: general discussion and conclusions.
AB  - 

UI  - 2229465
TI  - Plasma concentrations of flurazepam and midazolam in chronic insomniacs during 14-day use and their relationship to therapeutic effects and next-day performance and mood.
AB  - Blood samples were drawn from each of 99 chronic insomniacs twice during washout (days -20 and -6) and six times during the study (mornings after study nights -1, 1, 2, 7, 13, and 14) to examine the relationship between morning-after drug plasma levels, sleep efficiency, next-day mood, and performance. Patients in the four treatment groups received either flurazepam 30 mg, flurazepam 15 mg, midazolam 15 mg, or placebo. Plasma drug concentrations of N-desalkylflurazepam and midazolam were measured by electron-capture gas chromatography. Values of midazolam during the 14-day study were at or near the sensitivity limit of the assay and were not used in the calculations. Levels of N-desalkylflurazepam increased as expected during the 14 days. Mean level for the high-dose flurazepam group was approximately twice that of the low-dose group. The main consistency in the correlations, which were found on days 13 and 14, was that the high-dose desalkylflurazepam concentrations had a negative correlation with two independent measures of sleep latency. However, otherwise there was little or no relationship between N-desalkylflurazepam levels and sleep efficiency or next-day behavior. Issues of tolerance, individual variability in baseline and response, and their contribution to the findings are discussed.

UI  - 2229464
TI  - Cognitive performance and mood in patients with chronic insomnia during 14-day use of flurazepam and midazolam.
AB  - The 99 chronic insomniacs examined in the present multicenter study were given three cognitive tasks (reading comprehension, addition, and digit symbol substitution test [DSST]) as well as the Hopkins Symptom Checklist (HSCL) and the Profile of Mood States (POMS) in order to evaluate the effects of flurazepam (Dalmane) 15 and 30 mg, midazolam 15 mg, and placebo on cognitive performance and mood. Subjective evaluation of performance was also obtained. A significant person in the patient's life was also asked to evaluate the patient's mood before and during the 14-day treatment interval. After a 20-day washout, next-day performance and mood were evaluated after placebo nights -1 and 0 (baseline) and after treatment nights 1, 2 (early interval), 7 (middle interval), and 13 and 14 (late interval). Analysis of variance (ANOVA) on changes from baseline indicated no significant between-groups treatment effects for reading comprehension or any of the mood variables at any interval. Patients on flurazepam 30 mg performed less well compared with other groups even though, after completion of the tasks, this group believed that they performed as well as those on the other regimens. Performances by flurazepam 15 mg, midazolam, and placebo groups were similar. Significant others tended to rate high-dose flurazepam patients more negatively. High-dose flurazepam patients had a significant change on the DSST and addition tasks due to treatment after the first night, and change in performance remained significantly impaired for the DSST task relative to that of the other groups thereafter.

UI  - 2229463
TI  - Psychomotor performance in chronic insomniacs during 14-day use of flurazepam and midazolam.
AB  - Four skills performance (psychomotor) tasks, including simple and choice reaction time, divided attention, and vigilance, were given to 99 chronic insomniacs to determine whether the use of midazolam 15 mg, or of flurazepam 15 or 30 mg, compared with placebo would produce next-day impairment throughout a 14-day treatment period. Tests were administered during 2 baseline days and on treatment days 1 and 2 (early interval), 7 (middle interval) and 13 and 14 (late interval). Compared with placebo, performance on all four tasks was impaired by flurazepam 30 mg. The deficits associated with flurazepam 15 mg were roughly half the magnitude of those produced by flurazepam 30 mg, but these changes did not reach statistical significance for single response measures at single time intervals. Midazolam showed no consistent pattern of performance effects; however, for divided attention tracking error, there was a significant decrement. The placebo group showed flat performance curves or improved performance as a result of learning (practice effect).

UI  - 2229462
TI  - Sleep evaluation in chronic insomniacs during 14-day use of flurazepam and midazolam.
AB  - This article contains the sleep results of the efficacy study of flurazepam 30 mg and 15 mg, midazolam 15 mg, and placebo in the 99 chronic insomniacs studied as part of this multicenter study. After a 20-day drug washout, all-night sleep was recorded on 2 baseline nights, on the first 2 treatment nights, on treatment night 7, and on the last 2 nights of the study (nights 13 and 14). To reduce the number of comparisons, electroencephalographic (EEG) sleep latency, EEG wake time, EEG sleep efficiency, post-sleep questionnaire (PSQ) sleep latency, and PSQ total sleep were preselected as the major sleep variables. Between-groups comparisons indicated that, when compared with the placebo control, all drugs improved sleep, but differences were statistically significant only for the first 2 nights, i.e., the early interval. Midazolam was more effective than either dose level of flurazepam on treatment night 1. Within-group analyses indicated that all drug groups showed significantly improved sleep from baseline throughout drug administration, but the placebo group did not significantly improve from baseline by either objective or subjective measures at any of the three time intervals. The sleep of patients taking flurazepam 30 mg did not differ significantly from the sleep of those receiving the 15 mg dose for any of the five major sleep variables at any interval. Objective EEG and subjective PSQ sleep variables showed significant positive correlations.

UI  - 2229461
TI  - A multicenter study of sleep, performance, and plasma levels in chronic insomniacs during 14-day use of flurazepam and midazolam: executive summary.
AB  - 

UI  - 2229460
TI  - Clinical safety of flurazepam and midazolam during 14-day use in chronic insomniacs.
AB  - Data from evening questionnaires, reports of side effects, laboratory findings, and all-night respiratory measurements were collected on the 99 chronic insomniacs examined in this multicenter study. These data were used to compare the clinical safety and desirability of a benzodiazepine hypnotic with a very short half-life, midazolam 15 mg, with a hypnotic with a longer half-life, flurazepam 15 and 30 mg; both compounds were compared with a placebo control. There were 2 prestudy placebo nights followed by 14 consecutive nights of treatment. Of the 107 patients accepted, 99 completed the study. No marked adverse reactions were found in any area for any group. There was no increase in sleep apneas during the treatment period for any group. Results of this study provide additional evidence of the safety of benzodiazepine hypnotics.

UI  - 2229459
TI  - Characteristics of chronic insomniacs examined in a multicenter 14-day study of flurazepam and midazolam.
AB  - One hundred seven chronic insomniacs (41 men, 66 women; mean age, 37.9 years) with a history of use of benzodiazepines were recruited for a multicenter study testing the relative efficacy of flurazepam 15 mg or 30 mg, midazolam 15 mg, or placebo during a 14-day treatment period. Average duration of the complaint of insomnia was 13.5 years. Most (74%) of the patients met criteria for a diagnosis of persistent psychophysiological sleep disorder for both initiating and maintaining sleep.

UI  - 2229457
TI  - Sleep, performance, and plasma levels in chronic insomniacs during 14-day use of flurazepam and midazolam: methodology.
AB  - Methods are described for a five-center study of flurazepam and midazolam, in which 107 patients with histories of benzodiazepine use for chronic insomnia were enrolled. Data were available for 99 of these patients. Staff and patient manuals and a behavior-based computer system were specially designed to measure and delineate clearly the study procedures and parameters. Patients were carefully followed and supported during a 20-day washout period and underwent extensive training on psychomotor performance tasks. They received placebo for 2 nights and were then randomly assigned to one of four study treatments--flurazepam 15 or 30 mg, midazolam 15 mg, or placebo--for 14 consecutive nights. All-night sleep electroencephalographic recordings were obtained on study nights--1 and 0 (placebo) and 1, 2, 7, 13, and 14 (treatment nights). Results of four computer-generated psychomotor performance tasks and three cognitive tasks, plus subjective evaluations of sleep, performance, and mood, were recorded in the morning after each night spent in the sleep laboratory. Blood and urine samples were analyzed for drug concentrations in plasma and for compliance with the protocol. A pilot study, using a high (nonclinical) dose of flurazepam (45 mg), preceded the multi-center study and was designed to evaluate tests in healthy volunteers and to familiarize staff with equipment and tests.
