
UI  - 24956337
TI  - Role of laparoscopic peritoneal biopsy in the diagnosis of peritoneal tuberculosis. A seven-year experience.
AB  - The diagnosis of asymptomatic abdominal tuberculosis,without characteristic laboratory and radiologic findings, is difficult. We therefore investigated the role of diagnostic laparoscopy in patients with suspected peritoneal tuberculosis(PTB). Patients admitted to Hamad General Hospital, Qatar,who underwent laparoscopic peritoneal biopsy for suspected PTB from January 2004 to December 2010 were retrospectively analysed. Factors assessed included patient age, sex, symptoms,clinical signs, CT scan findings, laparoscopic findings andhistopathological diagnosis. A total of 41 patients, 33 males(80.5%) and 8 females (19.5%), of mean age 31 years, underwent laparoscopic peritoneal biopsy for suspected PTB duringthe study period. Abdominal pain was the most common presenting symptom, observed in 33 (80.5%) patients.Computerized tomography (CT) of the abdomen showed as citesin 37 patients (90%), bowel nodules in 22 (54%), peritoneal thickening and nodules in 37 (90%) and enlarged mesenteric lymph nodes in 11 (27%). The classical gross laparoscopic appearance of peritoneal tuberculosis was observed in 38 patients (93%), whereas laparoscopic findings were normal in 3 patients (7%). Histopathological results confirmed granulomatous inflammation in 38 patients (93%). The sensitivity and specificity of gross laparoscopic appearance in diagnosing peritoneal TB were both 100%. Two patients experienced complications from laparoscopy (5%), but there were nolaparoscopy-related deaths. Laparoscopic peritoneal biopsy isa rapid and safe method of accurately diagnosing PTB.

UI  - 24869625
TI  - Impact of GeneXpert MTB/RIF on patients and tuberculosis programs in a low-burden setting. a hypothetical trial.
AB  - Xpert could greatly reduce the frequency and impact of unnecessary empiric treatment, contact investigation, and housing, providing substantial patient and programmatic benefits if used in management decisions.

UI  - 24858642
TI  - Interferon- release assay in HIV-infected patients with active tuberculosis: impact of antituberculous drugs on host immune response.
AB  - The objective of the study was to: 1) investigate the performance of QuantiFERON-TB Gold In-Tube (QFT-GIT) in HIV-infected patients with active tuberculosis (TB); 2) evaluate the sequential changes in QFT-GIT assay during the treatment response; 3) investigate the direct in vitro effects of antituberculous drugs on both secretion of IFN-g and apoptosis of T cells. Forty-four HIV-patients with active TB were enrolled and tested with QFT-GIT. Thirteen of them were followed longitudinally by QFT-GIT, performed at baseline and six and nine months after TB-treatment onset. For in vitro experiments, cells from healthy donors and HIV-naive subjects were pretreated with four antituberculous-drugs, and then examined for IFN-g secretion and apoptosis of T-cells. The QFT-GIT was positive in 66%, negative in 11.3% and indeterminate in 22.7%. Longitudinal analysis in 13 HIV-TB subjects showed that at therapy completion a reversion to negative response was found only in 38.4% of patients, but in 30.7% the QFT-GIT remained positive. Overall, during the anti-TB treatment no significant decrease in average IFN-g response was observed in these patients (p<0.001). In vitro experiments showed that the four antituberculous- drugs, within the range of therapeutically achievable concentrations, did not exert any down-regulatory effect on IFN-g production and did not have any effect on apoptosis of T cells from HIV nave subjects. Despite the high rate of indeterminate results, QFT-GIT assay may represent a good tool in the diagnostic workup for active TB in HIV-patients. Although the antituberculous drugs do not have any direct effect on host immune response to mycobacterial antigen, changes in longitudinal IGRA response have been found during in vivo anti-TB treatment.

UI  - 24853308
TI  - Impact of isoniazid preventive therapy for HIV-infected adults in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil: an epidemiological model.
AB  - TB screening and IPT delivery can substantially reduce TB incidence and mortality among PLHIV in urban, moderate-burden settings. In such settings, IPT can be an important component of a multi-faceted strategy to feasibly reduce the burden of TB in PLHIV.

UI  - 24786895
TI  - Xpert MTB/RIF as a measure of sputum bacillary burden. Variation by HIV status and immunosuppression.
AB  - We observed decreasing bacillary burden with increasing level of immunosuppression as measured by Xpert MTB/RIF cycle threshold values. A cycle threshold value of 28 can be used as a measure of bacterial burden and smear status in a high HIV burden setting.

UI  - 24765688
TI  - Clinicodiagnostic features of tuberculous meningitis and the role of CSF PCR in early diagnosis: a study from north-west India.
AB  - The objective of this study was to study the clinical features and laboratory profile including acid fast bacillus microscopy, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) culture and M. tuberculosis polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for an early diagnosis of tuberculous meningitis. Fifty consecutive patients, fulfilling the clinical criteria of tuberculous meningitis, were included in the study. All patients were subjected to detailed clinical and laboratory evaluation and radiological tests. CSF acid fast bacillus microscopy, culture and PCR were carried out in all and results were analysed. Majority of the patients presented with fever, headache, vomiting and signs of meningeal Irritation. Ziehl-Neelsen staining for acid-fast bacillus was positive in 4% cases, culture in 18% cases and CSF PCR for Mycobacterium tuberculosis was positive in 68%. Miliary pattern on chest x-ray was seen in 16% and CNS tuberculomas were seen in 14% cases. The CSF PCR estimation in clinically suspected cases of tuberculous meningitis may be an extremely valuable test for early diagnosis and institution of specific therapy.

UI  - 24726095
TI  - Raltegravir for the treatment of patients co-infected with HIV and tuberculosis (ANRS 12 180 Reflate TB): a multicentre, phase 2, non-comparative, open-label, randomised trial.
AB  - French National Agency for Research on AIDS and Viral Hepatitis (ANRS), Brazilian National STD/AIDS Program-Ministry of Health.

UI  - 24696988
TI  - Chronic meningitis in immunocompromised adult Ethiopians visiting Tikur Anbessa Teaching Hospital and Ye'huleshet Clinic from 2003-2004.
AB  - Chronic meningitis mostly occurred in HIV infected patients, where most of the infections were attributed to Cryptococcus neoformans whereas M. tuberculosis appeared secondary.

UI  - 24696985
TI  - Assessment of cost of tuberculosis to patients and their families: a cross-sectional study at Addet Health Center, Yilmana Densa District, Amhara National Regional State.
AB  - Cost of tuberculosis to patients and their families, especially before the identification of the disease was found to be very high. Therefore, consequences of tuberculosis to patients and their families are particularly serious and potentially devastating.

UI  - 24696984
TI  - T cell response to alpha crystallin and Mycobacterium tuberculosis specific antigens using ex-vivo elispot assay for detecting latent tuberculosis infection in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.
AB  - Antigen specific T cell response based on ex-vivo ELISPOT assay using combined ACR and ESAT-6/ CFP-10 antigens can be used as indicator of underlying latent TB infection in tropical setting where tuberculosis is endemic.

UI  - 24696982
TI  - Human immunodeficiency virus infection among new smear positive pulmonary tuberculosis patients in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.
AB  - The occurrence of HIV in smear positive TB cases is high, with a higher proportion seen among females compared to males.

UI  - 24640347
TI  - Study on prevalance of diabetes mellitus in patients with T.B. under DOTS strategy.
AB  - The higher prevalence of diabetes mellitus in DOTS patients raises immediate concerns in preventing the morbidity due to both the diseases. Therefore, it is recommended that some strategy on the lines of HIV disease should be formed under DOTS for the concomitant treatment of TB and diabetes for better outcome and care.

UI  - 24628316
TI  - Increased cellular activity in thoracic lymph nodes in early human latent tuberculosis infection.
AB  - 

UI  - 24623644
TI  - Tuberculosis in pediatric oncology and bone marrow transplantation patients.
AB  - Five children with malignancies (3 hematologic, 1 medulloblastoma, 1 hepatoblastoma) and one bone marrow transplant patient were treated for tuberculosis over a 30-year period. Three had pulmonary disease, 3 disseminated tuberculosis, and 1 had scrofula. Four of five had positive tuberculin skin tests, cultures were positive in 5/6 children. One child died of disseminated TB after engraftment, and one child had hepatotoxicity likely related to tuberculosis therapy. All cases were potentially preventable had they been screened due to established risk factors of foreign birth (4/6) or parental foreign birth (2/6). All children should be screened for latent tuberculosis before chemotherapy.

UI  - 24615134
TI  - Cost-effectiveness of a tuberculosis active case finding program targeting household and neighborhood contacts in Cambodia.
AB  - In many high-risk populations, access to tuberculosis (TB) diagnosis and treatment is limited and pockets of high prevalence persist. We estimated the cost-effectiveness of an extensive active case finding program in areas of Cambodia where TB notifications and household poverty rates are highest and access to care is restricted. Thirty operational health districts with high TB incidence and household poverty were randomized into intervention and control groups. In intervention operational health districts, all household and symptomatic neighborhood contacts of registered TB patients of the past two years were encouraged to attend screening at mobile centers. In control districts, routine passive case finding activities continued. The program screened more than 35,000 household and neighborhood contacts and identified 810 bacteriologically confirmed cases. The cost-effectiveness analysis estimated that in these cases the reduction in mortality from 14% to 2% would result in a cost per daily adjusted life year averted of $330, suggesting that active case finding was highly cost-effective.

UI  - 24605618
TI  - [Influence of therapy with interferon inducer on the parameters of quality of life in patients with pulmonary tuberculosis].
AB  - The evaluation of quality of life using a questionnaire--Version 2 of the "SF-36 Health Survey" was performed in 144 patients with widespread pulmonary tuberculosis. The low level of "quality of life" was revealed in patients with pulmonary tuberculosis in comparison with healthy persons. It is caused by limiting physical activity, reducing the psychological component due to low vitality and mental health. By the end of the second month of chemotherapy, the changes are saved (PE, RP) and even exacerbated (RE, MN) in patients with MDR MBT. Combined therapy with Cycloferon improves physical activity of patients without MDR MBT. In this case, the mental health of the patient is perceived positively due to increasing the emotional activity, more expressed in patients without MDR MBT and minimization emotional problems related to the disease in patients with MDR MBT.

UI  - 24602844
TI  - Effects of early versus delayed initiation of antiretroviral treatment on clinical outcomes of HIV-1 infection: results from the phase 3 HPTN 052 randomised controlled trial.
AB  - US National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases.

UI  - 24592878
TI  - Bacillus Calmette-Gurin and isoniazid preventive therapy protect contacts of patients with tuberculosis.
AB  - These findings support the use of IPT in older children and young-adult household contacts, in addition to children younger than 5 years.

UI  - 24564061
TI  - Detection of drug resistant Mycobacterium tuberculosis among patients with and without HIV infection in a rural setting.
AB  - It was established that the sensitivity of Mycobacterium tuberculosis by the NRA and Hain LPA in TB/HIV co-infected patients has acceptable correlation and that HIV infection does not affect drug susceptibility testing.

UI  - 24515517
TI  - Epidemiology of tuberculosis in young children in the United States.
AB  - Young children who are US born of foreign-born parents have relatively high rates of TB and account for most cases in this age group. Prompt diagnosis and treatment of adult source cases, effective contact investigations prioritizing young contacts, and targeted testing and treatment of latent TB infection are necessary to reduce TB morbidity in this population.

UI  - 24503266
TI  - Autologous mesenchymal stromal cell infusion as adjunct treatment in patients with multidrug and extensively drug-resistant tuberculosis: an open-label phase 1 safety trial.
AB  - MSCs as an adjunct therapy are safe and can now be explored further for the treatment of patients with MDR or XDR tuberculosis in combination with standard drug regimens. Adjunct treatment with MSCs needs to be evaluated in controlled phase 2 trials to assess effects on immune responses and clinical and microbiological outcomes.

UI  - 24501203
TI  - All-trans retinoic acid-triggered antimicrobial activity against Mycobacterium tuberculosis is dependent on NPC2.
AB  - A role for vitamin A in host defense against Mycobacterium tuberculosis has been suggested through epidemiological and in vitro studies; however, the mechanism is unclear. In this study, we demonstrate that vitamin A-triggered antimicrobial activity against M. tuberculosis requires expression of NPC2. Comparison of monocytes stimulated with all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) or 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (1,25D3), the biologically active forms of vitamin A and vitamin D, respectively, indicates that ATRA and 1,25D3 induce mechanistically distinct antimicrobial activities. Stimulation of primary human monocytes with ATRA did not result in expression of the antimicrobial peptide cathelicidin, which is required for 1,25D3 antimicrobial activity. In contrast, ATRA triggered a reduction in the total cellular cholesterol concentration, whereas 1,25D3 did not. Blocking ATRA-induced cellular cholesterol reduction inhibits antimicrobial activity as well. Bioinformatic analysis of ATRA- and 1,25D3-induced gene profiles suggests that NPC2 is a key gene in ATRA-induced cholesterol regulation. Knockdown experiments demonstrate that ATRA-mediated decrease in total cellular cholesterol content and increase in lysosomal acidification are both dependent upon expression of NPC2. Expression of NPC2 was lower in caseous tuberculosis granulomas and M. tuberculosis-infected monocytes compared with normal lung and uninfected cells, respectively. Loss of NPC2 expression ablated ATRA-induced antimicrobial activity. Taken together, these results suggest that the vitamin A-mediated antimicrobial mechanism against M. tuberculosis requires NPC2-dependent expression and function, indicating a key role for cellular cholesterol regulation in the innate immune response.

UI  - 24481948
TI  - Differences in T-cell responses between Mycobacterium tuberculosis and Mycobacterium africanum-infected patients.
AB  - In The Gambia, Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) and Mycobacterium africanum (Maf) are major causes of tuberculosis (TB). Maf is more likely to cause TB in immune suppressed individuals, implying differences in virulence. Despite this, few studies have assessed the underlying immunity to the two pathogens in human. In this study, we analyzed T-cell responses from 19 Maf- and 29 Mtb-infected HIV-negative patients before and after TB chemotherapy following overnight stimulation of whole blood with TB-specific antigens. Before treatment, percentages of early secreted antigenic target-6(ESAT-6)/culture filtrate protein-10(CFP-10) and purified protein derivative-specific single-TNF--producing CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells were significantly higher while single-IL-2-producing T cells were significantly lower in Maf- compared with Mtb-infected patients. Purified protein derivative-specific polyfunctional CD4(+) T cells frequencies were significantly higher before than after treatment, but there was no difference between the groups at both time points. Furthermore, the proportion of CD3(+) CD11b(+) T cells was similar in both groups pretreatment, but was significantly lower with higher TNF-, IL-2, and IFN- production in Mtb- compared with that of Maf-infected patients posttreatment. Our data provide evidence of differences in T-cell responses to two mycobacterial strains with differing virulence, providing some insight into TB pathogenesis with different Mtb strains that could be prospectively explored as biomarkers for TB protection or susceptibility.

UI  - 24450889
TI  - A trial of mass isoniazid preventive therapy for tuberculosis control.
AB  - Mass screening and treatment for latent tuberculosis had no significant effect on tuberculosis control in South African gold mines, despite the successful use of isoniazid in preventing tuberculosis during treatment. (Funded by the Consortium to Respond Effectively to the AIDS TB Epidemic and others; Thibela TB Current Controlled Trials number, ISRCTN63327174.).

UI  - 24450377
TI  - Diagnostic accuracy of intracellular mycobacterium tuberculosis detection for tuberculous meningitis.
AB  - Enhanced bacterial detection by simple modification of the Ziehl-Neelsen stain and an ESAT-6 intracellular stain improve the laboratory diagnosis of tuberculous meningitis.

UI  - 24437320
TI  - Role of combined zinc, vitamin A, and fish oil supplementation in childhood tuberculosis.
AB  - This objective of this study was to determine benefit of one month combined supplementation (zinc, vitamin A, fish oil) along with anti-tuberculosis drugs (ATD) on increasing serum leptin levels and decreasing tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) in children with tuberculosis (TB). A quasi experimental study was conducted on 22 children (aged 5-14 years) with a positive acid-fast bacilli (AFB) smear. The children were divided into 2 groups. A history, physical examination, anthropometric measurements, serum leptin levels, TNF-alpha levels, retinol and zinc levels were examined in all subjects before and after treatment. Nutritional supplementation and ATD were given to group I while ATD only were given to group II. The change in leptin, TNF-alpha, retinol and zinc levels were analyzed with the Mann-Whitney test, while a t-test was used to determine changes in body mass index (BMI). Group I had a higher significant increase in serum leptin levels than group II (p=0.034). Group I had a significantly greater decrease in TNF-a levels than group II (p=0.032). No significant differences in retinol or zinc levels were seen between the two, but both groups had an increase after treatment. Both groups had a significant increase in BMI (p=<0.001) post-treatment compared to pre-treatment. Supplementation with zinc, vitamin A and fish oil is associated with a significant increase in leptin levels and a significant decrease in TNF-alpha levels among children treated for TB. No significant benefit was seen in BMI among children receiving supplementation compared to those without it, although ATD resulted in a significant increase in BMI in both groups.

UI  - 24391801
TI  - Outcomes among HIV-1 infected individuals first starting antiretroviral therapy with concurrent active TB or other AIDS-defining disease.
AB  - Active TB at ART initiation was associated with increased risk of mortality in HIV-1 infected patients.

UI  - 24388083
TI  - Percutaneous core needle biopsies: the yield in spinal tuberculosis.
AB  - Percutaneous biopsy remains an important tool to diagnose and manage spinal TB. The yield of transpedicular biopsies in this study was comparable with international figures. Specimen decontamination prior to culture had a direct negative influence on biopsy culture yield, as did prior TB treatment.

UI  - 24386640
TI  - Pediatric tuberculosis in young children in India: a prospective study.
AB  - Diagnosis of TB is challenging in young children, with high rates of extra-pulmonary and meningeal disease. While the data on DR-TB are limited by the small sample size, they are however concerning, and additional studies are needed to more accurately define the prevalence of DR strains in this vulnerable population.

UI  - 24367678
TI  - Incidence of paradoxical tuberculosis-associated immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome and impact on patient outcome.
AB  - In this large prospective cohort, tuberculosis-IRIS occurrence within 12 weeks of starting antiretroviral therapy was independently associated with the mortality of HIV-tuberculosis co-infected patients at 48 weeks post antiretroviral therapy initiation.

UI  - 24365553
TI  - Estimating tuberculosis burden and case detection in Pakistan.
AB  - The study estimated that the proportion of cases notified to the NTP was low, with actual incidence rates being higher than official estimates. TB surveillance should be strengthened to reduce under-reporting.

UI  - 24365549
TI  - Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex strains and drug susceptibility in a cattle-rearing region of Cameroon.
AB  - Although the Adamaoua Region is a stock-farming area, M. tuberculosis is the predominant MTC species responsible for PTB. Anti-tuberculosis drug resistance in new and previously treated cases is well established, underscoring the need to reinforce the DOTS strategy.

UI  - 24364397
TI  - Efficacy of a new model for delivering integrated TB and HIV services for people living with HIV/AIDS in Delhi -- case for a paradigm shift in national HIV/TB cross-referral strategy.
AB  - Under National TB/HIV framework, all TB patients are referred by Revised National Tuberculosis Programme (RNTCP) service providers to Integrated Counseling and Testing Centers (ICTCs) for voluntary counseling and testing (C&T) and ICTC "TB-suspects" are referred to RNTCP facilities for TB diagnosis and treatment. HIV-TB coinfected patients are then referred to Anti Retroviral Treatment (ART) center for initiation of ART between two weeks and two months of initiating TB treatment. During the third phase of National AIDS Control Programme (NACP-III, April 2007-April 2012), 30749/130503 (23.6%) TB/HIV cross-referrals were lost to follow up (LTFU) and there was missed opportunity for 940/1884 (49.9%) HIV-TB coinfected patients for initiation of ART during TB treatment. This motivated Delhi State AIDS Control Society (DSACS) and State TB Cell (STC) to revise existing cross-referral strategy. The new strategy was launched in May 2012, wherein HIV-TB coinfected and HIV-positive "TB-suspects" were referred to nearest ART center for HIV care and investigations of TB at Chest Clinic/Designated Microscopy Centre (DMC) located within the same hospital instead of referral to area RNTCP facility. Outcome of the strategy was evaluated in March 2013. The new HIV-TB cross-referral strategy in Delhi has shown advantage over national strategy: first, improved retention of coinfected clients in HIV care; second, ensured timely initiation of TB-treatment and ART; and third, significantly improved survival of HIV-TB coinfected patients.

UI  - 24360402
TI  - Methadone treatment improves tuberculosis treatment among hospitalized opioid dependent patients in Ukraine.
AB  - MMT integrated into inpatient TB treatment significantly improves retention in TB treatment and TB medication adherence among PWIDs. These findings call for policy change to increase the number of MMT sites in TB facilities and make MMT a low-threshold treatment option for opioid dependence in Ukraine.

UI  - 24299555
TI  - Interferon- release assays and tuberculin skin testing for diagnosis of latent tuberculosis infection in healthcare workers in the United States.
AB  - Most conversions among HCWs in low TB incidence settings appear to be false positives, and these occurred six to nine times more frequently with IGRAs than TST; repeat testing of apparent converters is warranted.

UI  - 24273174
TI  - Evaluation of a human BCG challenge model to assess antimycobacterial immunity induced by BCG and a candidate tuberculosis vaccine, MVA85A, alone and in combination.
AB  - Our results support previous findings that this BCG challenge model is able to detect differences in antimycobacterial immunity induced by vaccination and could aid in the selection of candidate tuberculosis vaccines for field efficacy testing.

UI  - 24262781
TI  - Clinical manifestations of patients with intraocular inflammation and positive QuantiFERON-TB gold in-tube test in a country nonendemic for tuberculosis.
AB  - Ocular features of patients with idiopathic uveitis and positive quantiferon were diverse, but retinal occlusive vasculitis and serpiginoid choroiditis were common. The quantiferon levels were usually highly elevated and 33% of patients exhibited lymphadenopathy, suggesting frequently the diagnosis of sarcoidosis. Ocular inflammation reacted favorably to antituberculosis treatment, although only a small minority had documented (prior) tuberculosis.

UI  - 24244364
TI  - Non-adherence to anti-tuberculosis treatment and determinant factors among patients with tuberculosis in northwest Ethiopia.
AB  - Non-adherence to anti-tuberculosis treatment was high. Forgetfulness, being in the continuation phases of chemotherapy, having symptoms of tuberculosis during the interview, and co-infected with HIV were significantly associated with non-adherence to anti-tuberculosis therapy. Special attention on adherence counseling should be given to symptomatic patients, TB/HIV co-infected patients, and those in the continuation phase of the tuberculosis therapy.

UI  - 24244358
TI  - Tuberculin skin test result and risk of death among persons with active TB.
AB  - A negative TST is associated with an increased risk of death among persons with culture-confirmed TB disease, even after adjustment for HIV status, site of TB disease, sputum smear AFB status, drug susceptibility, age, sex, and origin of birth. In addition to indicating risk of developing disease, the TST may also be a marker for increased risk of death.

UI  - 24235772
TI  - Tuberculin test can be read after 24 hours in adolescent children.
AB  - Tuberculin status in adolescents can be read as positive or negative at 24 h, irrespective of their bacillus Calmette-Gurin scar status.

UI  - 24226057
TI  - Tuberculosis immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome in A5221 STRIDE: timing, severity, and implications for HIV-TB programs.
AB  - TB IRIS was more frequent with earlier ART initiation and CD4 <50 cells per cubic millimeter. As ART is implemented earlier in HIV-TB coinfection, programs will require the diagnostic capabilities, clinical resources, and training necessary to manage TB IRIS.

UI  - 24218763
TI  - [Clinical and microbiological features of patients with pulmonary nontuberculous mycobacterial infection].
AB  - This study showed that majority of patients had no symptoms and/or negative results of smear examination with acid-fast staining. It is crucial to consider these facts when a diagnostic test of pNTM is performed.

UI  - 24217560
TI  - Efficacy and safety of recombinant Mycobacterium tuberculosis ESAT-6 protein for diagnosis of pulmonary tuberculosis: a phase II trial.
AB  - Recombinant ESAT-6 protein is efficacious and safe for diagnosing pulmonary TB. Based on the reaction, performance, safety, and practicability, we recommend that 10 g/mL at 48 h with an induration cut-off value of 5.0 mm be used.

UI  - 24206796
TI  - Providing detailed information about latent tuberculosis and compliance with the PPD test among healthcare workers in Israel: a randomized controlled study.
AB  - Compliance for latent TB screening is low among HCWs in northeastern Israel. Providing detailed information about latent TB was not associated with increased test compliance. Understanding existing disparities in screening rates and potential barriers to latent TB screening among HCWs is important in order to move forward and successfully increase screening rates.

UI  - 24206012
TI  - Prevalence, characteristics, management, and outcome of pulmonary tuberculosis in HIV-infected children in the TREAT Asia pediatric HIV Observational Database (TApHOD).
AB  - A multicenter, retrospective, observational study was conducted to determine prevalence, characteristics, management, and outcome of pulmonary tuberculosis (PTB) in Asian HIV-infected children in the TREAT Asia Pediatric HIV Observational Database (TApHOD). Data on PTB episodes diagnosed during the period between 12 months before antiretroviral therapy (ART) initiation and December 31, 2009 were extracted. A total of 2678 HIV-infected children were included in TApHOD over a 13-year period; 457 developed PTB, giving a period prevalence of 17.1% (range 5.7-33.0% per country). There were a total of 484 PTB episodes; 27 children had 2 episodes each. There were 21 deaths (4.3%). One third of episodes (n=175/484) occurred after ART initiation at a median of 14.1 months (interquartile range [IQR] 2.5-28.8 months). The median (IQR) CD4+ values were 9.0% (3.0-16.0%) and 183.5 (37.8-525.0) cells/mm(3) when PTB was diagnosed. Most episodes (n=424/436, 97.3%) had abnormal radiographic findings compatible with PTB, whereas half (n=267/484, 55.2%) presented with clinical characteristics of PTB. One third of those tested (n=42/122, 34.4%) had bacteriological evidence of PTB. Of the 156 episodes (32.2%) that were accompanied with extrapulmonary TB, pleuritis was the most common manifestation (81.4%). After treatment completion, most episodes (n=396/484, 81.9%) were recorded as having positive outcomes (cured, treatment completed and child well, and improvement). The prevalence of PTB among Asian HIV-infected children in our cohort was high. Children with persistent immunosuppression remain vulnerable to PTB even after ART initiation.

UI  - 24200276
TI  - Isoniazid, rifampicin and pyrazinamide plasma concentrations 2 and 6 h post dose in patients with pulmonary tuberculosis.
AB  - The results indicate that RMP concentrations are below the reference range in most patients, while PZA is within the target range of the standard doses.

UI  - 24200273
TI  - The effectiveness of a brochure describing an acceptable method of sputum collection for tuberculosis testing.
AB  - We evaluated the effectiveness of an educational brochure explaining proper sputum collection techniques for tuberculosis (TB) diagnosis. Patients with suspected pulmonary TB (PTB) were randomly assigned to either the brochure-using group or the non-using group. No significant difference in positive TB culture rates was observed between the brochure-using and non-using groups (33.1% vs. 35.6%, P = 0.690). The proportions of acceptable specimen samples for bacterial pneumonia were also similar between the two groups (37.1% vs. 35.6%). An educational brochure provided by the attending physician explaining an acceptable specimen collection method for TB testing did not result in a higher detection rate of PTB.

UI  - 24200269
TI  - Pharmacokinetics of rifabutin during atazanavir/ritonavir co-administration in HIV-infected TB patients in India.
AB  - Peak RBT concentration was below the lower therapeutic limit (<0.3 g/ml) in seven patients, while 10 patients had trough concentrations below the minimal inhibitory concentration against Mycobacterium tuberculosis (0.06 g/ml), suggesting that the RBT dosage may be inadequate. Prospective studies in different settings are required to arrive at the proper therapeutic dose for RBT to be used during co-administration with RTV.

UI  - 24200266
TI  - Incidence of tuberculosis in HIV-infected patients in Spain: the impact of treatment for LTBI.
AB  - TLTBI is effective in preventing the development of TB in HIV-infected patients, particularly in those who were TST-positive.

UI  - 24200262
TI  - Towards the WHO target of zero childhood tuberculosis deaths: an analysis of mortality in 13 locations in Africa and Asia.
AB  - Strategies to eliminate childhood TB deaths should include addressing the high-risk groups identified in this study, enhanced TB prevention, universal HIV testing and the development of a rapid diagnostic test.

UI  - 24192671
TI  - Multicentric analysis of childhood tuberculosis in Turkey.
AB  - Only a few series of pediatric tuberculosis (TB) have been reported in the last 20 years. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the clinical, radiological, microbiological, and treatment characteristics of childhood TB. A total of 539 children with childhood TB diagnosed over a 12-year period (1994-2005) in 16 different centers in Turkey participated in the study. The medical records of all childhood TB patients were investigated. A total of 539 children (274 males, 265 females) with childhood TB aged 10 days-17 years participated in the study. Age distribution was nearly equal among all age groups. We detected the index case in 39.8% of the patients. More than one index case was detected in 17.3% of the patients. A minimum 15-mm induration is accepted on tuberculin skin test (TST) following Bacillus Calmette-Gurin (BCG) vaccination. The TST was positive in 55.3% of the patients. Acid-fast bacillus smear was positive in 133, and polymerase chain reaction for Mycobacterium tuberculosis was positive in 45 patients. In 75 patients (13.9%), cultures yielded M. tuberculosis. One hundred fifty-one patients (28%) did not present for followup, and families of 5 patients (0.9%) discontinued the treatment. Pulmonary TB (n=285) and meningeal TB (n=85) were the most frequent diseases. In 29% of the patients, there was poor adherence to treatment or patients were lost to follow-up. We have demonstrated that household contact screening procedures play a major and important role, especially considering the high ratio of cases with contact index cases. We also recommend that the positive TST values should be reviewed according to the local cut-off data and should be specified in as many countries as possible. In view of the considerably high percentages of patients lost to follow-up and treatment discontinuation observed in our study, we suggest that application of directly observed treatment short-course (DOTS) is preferable.

UI  - 24176144
TI  - Feasibility, accuracy, and clinical effect of point-of-care Xpert MTB/RIF testing for tuberculosis in primary-care settings in Africa: a multicentre, randomised, controlled trial.
AB  - European and Developing Countries Clinical Trials Partnership, National Research Foundation, and Claude Leon Foundation.

UI  - 24175382
TI  - [The prevention of tuberculosis in middle Volga and fore-Urals regions].
AB  - The article presents last decade data concerning the level of tuberculosis in population of region, risk factors related to morbidity of tuberculosis in different groups of population. The activities of prevention of tuberculosis are discussed.

UI  - 24159790
TI  - [Effectiveness of immunomodulating therapy of pulmonary tuberculosis with cycloferon].
AB  - Cycloferon was used to treat newly diagnosed, recurrent and long-standing pulmonary TB. The dose of 7,5 g combined with antibacterial therapy caused no complications. The effectiveness of this therapy based on the generally-accepted criteria was significantly higher than standard treatment but varied depending on the character of pathological process. It is recommended to use cycloferon in the intense phase of the basal treatment.

UI  - 24136296
TI  - Matrix metalloproteinases and tissue damage in HIV-tuberculosis immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome.
AB  - The HIV-TB-associated immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome (TB-IRIS) can complicate combined treatments for HIV-1 and TB. Little is known about tissue damage in TB-IRIS. Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) degrade components of the extracellular matrix and consequently may play a role in such immunopathology. Here we investigated the involvement of MMPs in TB-IRIS. We determined MMP transcript abundance and secreted protein in Mycobacterium tuberculosis stimulated PBMCs from 22 TB-IRIS patients and 22 non-IRIS controls. We also measured MMP protein levels in corresponding serum and the effect of prednisone--which reduces the duration of symptoms in IRIS patients--or placebo treatment on MMP transcript and circulating MMP protein levels. PBMCs from TB-IRIS had increased MMP-1, -3, -7, and -10 transcript levels when compared with those of controls at either 6 or 24 h. Similarly, MMP-1, -3, -7, and -10 protein secretion in stimulated cultures was higher in TB-IRIS than in controls. Serum MMP-7 concentration was elevated in TB-IRIS and 2 weeks of corticosteroid therapy decreased this level, although not significantly. TB-IRIS is associated with a distinct pattern of MMP gene and protein activation. Modulation of dysregulated MMP activity may represent a novel therapeutic approach to alleviate TB-IRIS in HIV-TB patients undergoing treatment.

UI  - 24135768
TI  - Effect of isoniazid therapy for latent TB infection on QuantiFERON-TB gold in-tube responses in adults with positive tuberculin skin test results in a high TB incidence area: a controlled study.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov; No.: NCT01119521; URL: www.clinicaltrials.gov.

UI  - 24130497
TI  - O-mannosylation of the Mycobacterium tuberculosis adhesin Apa is crucial for T cell antigenicity during infection but is expendable for protection.
AB  - Glycosylation is the most abundant post-translational polypeptide chain modification in nature. Although carbohydrate modification of protein antigens from many microbial pathogens constitutes important components of B cell epitopes, the role in T cell immunity is not completely understood. Here, using ELISPOT and polychromatic flow cytometry, we show that O-mannosylation of the adhesin, Apa, of Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) is crucial for its T cell antigenicity in humans and mice after infection. However, subunit vaccination with both mannosylated and non-mannosylated Apa induced a comparable magnitude and quality of T cell response and imparted similar levels of protection against Mtb challenge in mice. Both forms equally improved waning BCG vaccine-induced protection in elderly mice after subunit boosting. Thus, O-mannosylation of Apa is required for antigenicity but appears to be dispensable for its immunogenicity and protective efficacy in mice. These results have implications for the development of subunit vaccines using post-translationally modified proteins such as glycoproteins against infectious diseases like tuberculosis.

UI  - 24125456
TI  - First proficiency testing of second-line anti-tuberculosis drug susceptibility testing in 12 provinces of China.
AB  - Eight (66.7%) participating laboratories met the set requirement criteria; however, DST in four (33.3%) laboratories requires greater attention. Of the four drugs tested, the results for KM were lower than those for the other drugs. External quality assessment can lead to effective evaluation of laboratory performance in SL DST.

UI  - 24125455
TI  - Proficiency of drug susceptibility testing of Mycobacterium tuberculosis against pyrazinamide: the Swedish experience.
AB  - In Sweden, using panel testing, differences were seen in the proficiency of TB laboratories in correctly identifying PZA susceptibility. Improved results were noted in the third round; PZA has therefore been included in yearly proficiency testing.

UI  - 24125447
TI  - Monitoring changes in anti-tuberculosis treatment: associated factors determined at the time of diagnosis.
AB  - Factors associated with changes in the initial anti-tuberculosis regimen should be considered for rigorous follow-up. Results obtained through individualised treatment provided by specialists were good despite the complexity of the cases treated.

UI  - 24125438
TI  - Role of the QuantiFERON-TB Gold In-Tube test in the diagnosis of intrathoracic childhood tuberculosis.
AB  - In high-burden countries, QFT-GIT is comparable to TST and offers no added advantage in the diagnosis of childhood intrathoracic TB.

UI  - 24120216
TI  - Early changes in hepatic function among HIV-tuberculosis patients treated with nevirapine or efavirenz along with rifampin-based anti-tuberculosis therapy.
AB  - Hepatotoxicity is not a major concern when HIV-infected TB patients, with normal baseline liver function initiate treatment for both infections simultaneously.

UI  - 24112411
TI  - Diabetes mellitus and tuberculosis: pattern of tuberculosis, two-month smear conversion and treatment outcomes in Guangzhou, China.
AB  - Diabetes mellitus in new smear-positive patients with PTB was associated with failure to sputum smear convert at 2 months and adverse treatment outcomes of loss-to-follow-up and failure. Further research is needed to understand the reasons for these findings and to determine whether the current length of treatment of 6 months is adequate.

UI  - 24106574
TI  - Assessment of laboratory logistics management information system practice for HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis laboratory commodities in selected public health facilities in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.
AB  - Even though there exists a well designed laboratory LMIS, keeping quality stock/bin cards and LMIS reports were very low. Key ART monitoring laboratory commodities were stock out at many facilities at the day of visit and during the past six months. Based on findings, training of laboratory personnel's managing laboratory commodities and keeping accurate inventory control procedures were recommended.

UI  - 24103082
TI  - Healthcare provision for HIV co-infected tuberculosis patients in rural Zambia: an observational cohort study at primary care centers.
AB  - HIV testing for TB patients has been successfully scaled up. However referrals of co-infected patients still remain a challenge due to poor linkage between TB and HIV healthcare services. Committed healthcare workers, a well-organized health services system and patient education are urgently required to ensure a higher rate of referral of TB/HIV co-infected patients for appropriate care.

UI  - 24099345
TI  - Efficacy and safety of thrice weekly DOTS in tuberculosis patients with and without HIV co-infection: an observational study.
AB  - NCT No. 00698334.

UI  - 24096631
TI  - Paradoxical tuberculosis-associated immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome after early initiation of antiretroviral therapy in a randomized clinical trial.
AB  - Shortening the delay between tuberculosis treatment onset and ART initiation to 2 weeks was associated with an increased risk of developing TB-IRIS. However, TB-IRIS was generally easily manageable. Given the marked reported survival advantage of early ART initiation after tuberculosis treatment onset, these data indicate that fear of TB-IRIS should not be an impediment to early ART in adults with advanced immunodeficiency in resource-limited, high burden settings.

UI  - 24093552
TI  - Micronutrient supplementation and T cell-mediated immune responses in patients with tuberculosis in Tanzania.
AB  - Limited studies exist regarding whether incorporating micronutrient supplements during tuberculosis (TB) treatment may improve cell-mediated immune response. We examined the effect of micronutrient supplementation on lymphocyte proliferation response to mycobacteria or T-cell mitogens in a randomized trial conducted on 423 patients with pulmonary TB. Eligible participants were randomly assigned to receive a daily dose of micronutrients (vitamins A, B-complex, C, E, and selenium) or placebo at the time of initiation of TB treatment. We found no overall effect of micronutrient supplements on lymphocyte proliferative responses to phytohaemagglutinin or purified protein derivatives in HIV-negative and HIV-positive TB patients. Of HIV-negative TB patients, the micronutrient group tended to show higher proliferative responses to concanavalin A than the placebo group, although the clinical relevance of this finding is not readily notable. The role of nutritional intervention in this vulnerable population remains an important area of future research.

UI  - 24088075
TI  - Randomized, placebo-controlled Phase II trial of heat-killed Mycobacterium vaccae (Immodulon batch) formulated as an oral pill (V7).
AB  - Oral M. vaccae was safe and has potential as an adjunct immunotherapy, targeting mucosal immunity, to improve efficacy and shorten treatment duration of TB chemotherapy.

UI  - 24085550
TI  - Screening for latent tuberculosis infection in patients with chronic inflammatory arthritis: discrepancies between tuberculin skin test and interferon- release assay results.
AB  - Our data support the combined use of T-SPOT.TB and TST in patients with CIA before biologics introduction. However, despite these good diagnostic values, indeterminate results may complicate the use of IGRA.

UI  - 24064441
TI  - High treatment success in children treated for multidrug-resistant tuberculosis: an observational cohort study.
AB  - A confirmed diagnosis of MDR-TB is not possible in all cases but this should not impede the treatment of MDR-TB in children. More than 90% of children with MDR-TB can be successfully treated. Non-severe disease could be successfully treated with reduced treatment duration.

UI  - 24061693
TI  - Intermediate to long-term follow-up results of INH chemoprophylaxis prior to anti-TNF-alpha therapy in a high-risk area for tuberculosis.
AB  - TST is a reliable and cost-effective method for the diagnosis of LTBI in patients prior to anti-TNF therapy. Moreover, chemoprophylaxis with INH seems to be effective for the prevention of TB reactivation in individuals with LTBI.

UI  - 24020603
TI  - The treatment journey of a patient with multidrug-resistant tuberculosis in South Africa: is it patient-centred?
AB  - To improve the treatment of patients co-infected with multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) and the human immunodeficiency virus, we measured the relationship between treatment outcomes and hospital performance at four decentralised MDR-TB sites in South Africa. We describe hospital performance from the patient's perspective by the use of a graphic that visually represents a patient's treatment journey. The graphic was used to report study findings to study sites and as a catalyst for a quality improvement process.

UI  - 24020602
TI  - Community-based intervention to enhance provision of integrated TB-HIV and PMTCT services in South Africa.
AB  - The intervention was effective in enhancing the provision of community-based TB-HIV and PMTCT services. However, attention to other primary health care services is required to ensure that all key services are provided.

UI  - 24020595
TI  - Evaluating the output of transformational patient-centred nurse training in Ethiopia.
AB  - Results showed that the transformational patient-centred training methods used led to ongoing training provision and practical improvements. In addition, it was found that addressing health care providers and the community at large through awareness-raising by trained nurses has the potential to bring about behavioural change likely to reduce the risk of transmission. Using a variety of methods was found to be a cost-effective and realistic way of evaluating the effect of training.

UI  - 24039990
TI  - A toolbox for tuberculosis (TB) diagnosis: an Indian multicentric study (2006-2008). Evaluation of QuantiFERON-TB gold in tube for TB diagnosis.
AB  - QFT-GIT and TST have similar diagnostic value for active TB diagnosis. In HIV-infected patients, combining microbiological tests with both immunological tests significantly increases the sensitivity for active TB diagnosis.

UI  - 24035281
TI  - Evaluation of performance of A1c and FPG tests for screening newly diagnosed diabetes defined by an OGTT among tuberculosis patients-a study from India.
AB  - HbA1c performed better than FPG as a screening tool for newly diagnosed diabetes among subjects with TB.

UI  - 24025906
TI  - Publisher's expression of concern: geographical differences associated with SNPs in nine gene targets among resistant clinical isolates of Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
AB  - The American Society for Microbiology (ASM) and the Journal of Clinical Microbiology (JCM) are issuing this Expression of Concern to alert readers to questions about the ownership of the data in the following publication: M. Hoshide, L. Qian, C. Rodrigues, R. Warren, T. Victor, H. B. Evasco II, T. Tupasi, V. Crudu, and J. T. Douglas. Geographic Differences Associated with SNPs in Nine Gene Targets among Resistant Clinical Isolates of Mycobacterium tuberculosis. J. Clin. Microbiol. Published ahead of print 19 June 2013. doi:10.1128/JCM.00857-13. JCM has been notified that substantial portions of the data presented in the manuscript were derived from results of a multicenter study centered at the University of California in San Diego (UCSD) and funded by the National Institutes of Health, and that the manuscript by Hoshide et al. was submitted for publication without prior approval of the UCSD study center. This matter is now under discussion by the University of Hawaii, Dr. Douglas's institution, and UCSD. Pending resolution of the questions raised regarding the right of the authors to publish these data, JCM has placed publication of the final version of the manuscript on hold. It should be noted that, according to ASM policies prohibiting duplicate publication, while the Hoshide et al. manuscript remains published, JCM cannot consider papers from other participants in the multicenter study if they include essentially the same data.

UI  - 24025390
TI  - Barriers to tuberculosis care for drug users in two provinces of China: a qualitative study.
AB  - These findings suggest that barriers to TB care for drug users are associated not only with the drug users themselves, but also with the providers and societal factors. Health professionals and policy makers should be aware of these barriers in China.

UI  - 24025378
TI  - Drug-resistant tuberculosis in children in Thailand.
AB  - The high rate of DR-TB underscores the importance of routine DST. History of treatment and drug susceptibility in source cases was useful in guiding initial treatment in children.

UI  - 24025377
TI  - Comparison of different methods and times for reading the tuberculin skin test.
AB  - The TST should ideally be performed with PPD-S and measured at 72 h with the ballpoint pen+ruler or palpation+ruler methods.

UI  - 24015293
TI  - The high cost of free tuberculosis services: patient and household costs associated with tuberculosis care in Ebonyi State, Nigeria.
AB  - Patient and household costs for TB care are potentially catastrophic even where services are provided free-of-charge. There is an urgent need to implement strategies for TB care that are affordable for the poor.

UI  - 24015285
TI  - Strategy to better select HIV-infected individuals for latent TB treatment in BCG-vaccinated population.
AB  - Adopting positive results of the TST and T-SPOT.TB to screen LTBI among BCG-vaccinated HIV-infected individuals might be feasible. Number needed to treat for isoniazid preventive therapy could be reduced significantly by using dual positive strategy.

UI  - 23999345
TI  - Primary and acquired drug resistance patterns of Mycobacterium tuberculosis isolates in India: a multicenter study.
AB  - Tuberculosis is the most prevalent infection worldwide. The emergence of drug-resistant Mycobacterium tuberculosis (M. tuberculosis) isolates emphasizes that it is necessary to monitor drug resistance of the organism against anti-tubercular drugs. We analyzed 327 M. tuberculosis isolates from patients who were cared for at three different health care centers, hereinafter known as study areas (SAs), in North India. Of the 327 total M. tuberculosis isolates, 255 were from a tertiary health care center (Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh [SA-1]), 48 were from a District tuberculosis center (Sawai Madhopur, Rajasthan [SA-2]), and 24 were from a different District tuberculosis center (Buxar, Bihar [SA-3]). Drug susceptibility testing against first-line antibiotics (viz. isoniazid, rifampicin, streptomycin, and ethambutol) was conducted for all the isolates using 1% proportional method. We found that the rates of acquired resistance were consistently higher than the rates of initial drug resistance. In new, untreated cases, a higher degree of MDR-TB was observed at SA-1 (13.3%) and SA-3 (25.0%), whereas it was observed in only 7.1% of the isolates at SA-2. In previously treated patients, MDR cases were found in 35.7% of the isolates from SA-1, 66.6% of the isolates from SA-2, and 43.8% of the isolates from SA-3. Resistance to a single drug was found at a much lower rate, ranging from 0.0 to 6.3% in new cases as well as previously treated cases. In conclusion, the primary resistance of M. tuberculosis is low, but acquired drug resistance is slightly higher in North India.

UI  - 23998730
TI  - Carnitine deficiency and its possible risk factors in TB patients: first report.
AB  - Nearly half of Iranian patients with TB were carnitine-deficient. Increased serum triglyceride levels and hypoalbuminemia were identified as independent risk factors of carnitine deficiency in patients aged over 35 years. Considering malnutrition as a major risk factor of TB and the safety of carnitine supplementation, use of carnitine as an adjunctive modality instead of other standard interventions may show beneficial effects in patients with TB.

UI  - 23990572
TI  - Dependence of efavirenz- and rifampicin-isoniazid-based antituberculosis treatment drug-drug interaction on CYP2B6 and NAT2 genetic polymorphisms: ANRS 12154 study in Cambodia.
AB  - We investigated the population pharmacokinetics and pharmacogenetics of efavirenz in 307 patients coinfected with human immunodeficiency virus and tuberculosis and included in the Cambodian Early vs Late Initiation of Antiretrovirals trial (CAMELIA) in Cambodia. Efavirenz (600 mg/d) and stavudine plus lamivudine were administered in addition to standard antituberculosis treatment, including rifampicin and isoniazid. Blood samples were obtained a mean of 14 hours after efavirenz intake at weeks 2 and 6 after initiation of efavirenz and weeks 22 (efavirenz plus antituberculosis drugs) and 50 (efavirenz alone) after initiation of antituberculosis treatment. Ten patients participated in an extensive pharmacokinetic study after week 50. CYP2B6 G516T and C485-18T polymorphisms were the most significant covariates, with weight showing a significant minor effect. Change in efavirenz apparent clearance in patients taking both efavirenz and antituberculosis treatment was highly dependent on NAT2 polymorphism, as a possible surrogate of isoniazid exposure. Patients carrying the CYP2B6 516 TT genotype and slow-acetylation NAT2 phenotype had the lowest efavirenz apparent clearance. These data suggest that the inducing effect of rifampicin is counterbalanced by a concentration-dependant inhibitory effect of isoniazid on efavirenz clearance.

UI  - 23988280
TI  - Levels of inflammatory cytokines, adrenal steroids, and mRNA for GR, GR and 11HSD1 in TB pleurisy.
AB  - Our previous work on the immune-endocrine features of patients with pulmonary tuberculosis (TB) showed markedly decreased plasma levels of dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) together with augmented concentrations of Cortisol and pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines. Studies in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) indicated a lower mRNA / ratio of glucocorticoid receptors -GR- together with a higher 11-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1 (11HSD1) mRNA expression in cases with severe pulmonary TB. Since Pleural TB (PLTB) is a rather benign manifestation of TB, we now analyzed the systemic and local immune-endocrine profile as well as the GR, GR, 11HSD1 and 11HSD2 transcripts in PBMC and pleural effusion mononuclear cells (PEMC) of patients with PLTB. PLTB patients had increased levels of IL-1, IL-6 and IFN together with reduced Cortisol and DHEA concentrations in pleural fluids. Also, a significantly increased expression of 11HSD1 and GR was found in PEMC compared to PBMC. Findings point out to an appropriate immune response and a substantial inflammatory reaction, wherein the low Cortisol concentrations may be equally effective, because of the increased expression of GR and 11HSD1 transcripts which may optimize the immunomodulatory properties of Cortisol.

UI  - 23976779
TI  - Evaluation of screening methods for identification of patients with chronic rheumatological disease requiring tuberculosis chemoprophylaxis prior to commencement of TNF- antagonist therapy.
AB  - Performing both a TST and T.Spot in patients on immunosuppressants prior to commencement of TNF- antagonist therapy gives an additional yield of potential LTBI compared with use of risk stratification tables alone. Our results suggest that use of all three screening modalities gives the highest yield of patients potentially requiring chemoprophylaxis.

UI  - 23967066
TI  - L-arginine and vitamin D adjunctive therapies in pulmonary tuberculosis: a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov. Registry number: NCT00677339.

UI  - 23954450
TI  - Effect of improved tuberculosis screening and isoniazid preventive therapy on incidence of tuberculosis and death in patients with HIV in clinics in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil: a stepped wedge, cluster-randomised trial.
AB  - Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and the National Institutes of Health.

UI  - 23937802
TI  - Acute lower respiratory infections on lung sequelae in Cambodia, a neglected disease inhighly tuberculosis-endemic country.
AB  - ALRIPS remains often misdiagnosed as TB with inappropriate treatment in low-income countries. Better-targeted training programs would help reduce the morbidity burden and financial costs.

UI  - 23936264
TI  - Impact of latent infection treatment in indigenous populations.
AB  - The aims of the present study were to identify risk factors associated with latent tuberculosis (TB), examine the development of active disease among contacts, and assess the effectiveness of treating latent infection in indigenous Brazilians from January 2006 to December 2011. This was a retrospective study consisting of 1,371 tuberculosis contacts, 392 of whom underwent treatment for latent infection. Morbidity-from-TB data were obtained from the Information System for Disease Notification (SINAN) database, and the contacts' data were collected from the clinical records using forms employed by Special Department of Indigenous Health (SESAI) multidisciplinary teams, according to SESAI's instructions. The variables that were associated with latent infection among the contacts were age (odds ratio [OR]: 1.03; 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.02-1.04) and close contact with a smear-positive index case (OR: 2.26, 95% CI: 1.59-3.22). The variables associated with the development of active TB among the contacts were a tuberculin skin test (TST) 10 mm (relative risk [RR]: 1.12, 95% CI: 1.07-1.17), age (RR: 1.01, 95% CI: 1.00-1.03), and treatment of latent infection (RR: 0.03, 95% CI: 0.01-0.27). The estimated number of latent infection treatments needed to prevent one case of active TB among the contacts was 51 treatments (95% CI: 33-182). In contacts with TST 10 mm, 10 (95% CI: 6-19) latent infection treatments were necessary to prevent one case of active TB. Age and close contact with a smear-positive index case were associated with latent TB. Screening with TST is a high priority among individuals contacting smear-positive index cases. Age and TST are associated with the development of active TB among contacts, and treatment of latent infection is an effective measure to control TB in indigenous communities.

UI  - 23933475
TI  - Dynamic changes in positive interferon-gamma release assay in a dialysis population: An observational cohort study.
AB  - In the dialysis population, reversion and conversion occur frequently within six months. The QFT-GIT positive population is heterogeneous and sub-populations have different reversion rates. Higher QFT-GIT positivity threshold can identify patients with persistent QFT-GIT positivity to prioritize follow-up and LTBI therapy.

UI  - 23928175
TI  - Sociodemographic basis of tuberculosis knowledge in Bolivia.
AB  - 

UI  - 23928169
TI  - Predictors of delay in the diagnosis and treatment of suspected tuberculosis in HIV co-infected patients in South Africa.
AB  - Patient delay in seeking care for TB in this high HIV prevalence setting is substantial. Factors identified with delay could be used to develop interventions to improve care seeking and earlier diagnosis of TB.

UI  - 23928167
TI  - Can a peer-based intervention impact adherence to the treatment of latent tuberculous infection?
AB  - The peer-based intervention was not significantly associated with LTBI treatment completion, but was associated with greater adherence. Findings suggest the importance of interventions to support adherence that target early non-adherence with LTBI treatment, particularly in the first 2 months, when there is a substantial risk of default.

UI  - 23927582
TI  - Comparison of levofloxacin versus moxifloxacin for multidrug-resistant tuberculosis.
AB  - The choice of LFX or MXF for treatment of patients with MDR-TB may not affect sputum culture conversion at 3 months of treatment. Clinical trial registered with www.clinicaltrials.gov (NCT 01055145).

UI  - 23925379
TI  - Higher rates of AIDS during the first year of antiretroviral therapy among migrants: the importance of tuberculosis.
AB  - During the first year of ART, HIV-positive migrants had higher rates of ADEs than nonmigrants. Tuberculosis was the most common ADE among migrants, highlighting the importance of screening for tuberculosis prior to ART initiation in this population.

UI  - 23916547
TI  - Risk factors for multidrug resistance among previously treated patients with tuberculosis in eastern China: a case-control study.
AB  - Particular clinical diagnostic results, such as more than three TB foci in the lung, non-standard or irregular therapy, and adverse effects of anti-TB medication, were found to be associated with MDR-TB in previously treated TB patients. High quality directly observed treatment should be strengthened to ensure that the previously treated patients can receive standard and regular regimens.

UI  - 23915882
TI  - Effect of household and community interventions on the burden of tuberculosis in southern Africa: the ZAMSTAR community-randomised trial.
AB  - Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.

UI  - 23764639
TI  - Can combination prevention strategies reduce HIV transmission in generalized epidemic settings in Africa? The HPTN 071 (PopART) study plan in South Africa and Zambia.
AB  - The HIV Prevention Trials Network (HPTN) is conducting the HPTN 071 (PopART) study in 21 communities in Zambia and South Africa with support from a consortium of funders. HPTN 071 (PopART) is a community-randomized trial of a combination prevention strategy to reduce HIV incidence in the context of the generalized epidemic of southern Africa. The full PopART intervention strategy is anchored in home-based HIV testing and facilitated linkage of HIV-infected persons to care through community health workers and universal antiretroviral therapy for seropositive persons regardless of CD4+ cell count or HIV viral load. To further reduce the risk of HIV acquisition among uninfected individuals, the study aims to expand voluntary medical male circumcision, diagnosis and treatment of sexually transmitted infections, behavioral counseling, and condom distribution. The full PopART intervention strategy also incorporates promotion of other interventions designed to reduce HIV and tuberculosis transmission, including optimization of the prevention of mother-to-child HIV transmission and enhanced individual and public health tuberculosis services. Success for the PopART strategy depends on the ability to increase coverage for the study interventions whose uptake is a necessary antecedent to a prevention effect. Processes will be measured to assess the degree of penetration of the interventions into the communities. A randomly sampled population cohort from each community will be used to measure the impact of the PopART strategy on HIV incidence over 3 years. We describe the strategy being tested and progress to date in the HPTN 071 (PopART) study.

UI  - 23908490
TI  - Greater preexisting interferon  responses to mycobacterial antigens and lower bacillary load during HIV-associated tuberculosis.
AB  - The role of preexisting interferon (IFN)  responses in controlling bacillary burden in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-associated tuberculosis is not known. Among BCG-immunized HIV-infected adults who developed tuberculosis in a phase III trial of an investigational tuberculosis vaccine, greater baseline IFN- responses to early secretory antigenic target 6 and Mycobacterium tuberculosis whole-cell lysate were associated with reduced bacillary burden on sputum smear grade, days to culture positivity on agar, and sputum culture grade during subsequent tuberculosis. This association was most consistent among recipients of the investigational vaccine. When HIV-associated tuberculosis develops, greater preexisting IFN- responses to mycobacterial antigens are associated with reduced tuberculosis bacillary burden. ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier. NCT0052195.

UI  - 23904552
TI  - Serum lipids as biomarkers for therapeutic monitoring of latent tuberculosis infection.
AB  - 

UI  - 23868330
TI  - Raising standards in UK TB control: introducing cohort review.
AB  - Cohort review has been used internationally to support tuberculosis (TB) control. We describe its first use in the UK by a London TB service. Improvements were noted in case management and contact tracing, weaknesses identified and important service changes put in place. Key areas of impact were directly observed therapy (DOT) provision (a greater proportion of cases offered DOT, and in response to low uptake resources diverted to create posts responsible for patient-centred DOT delivery), and contact tracing (more contacts per case screened and assessed). Cohort review enables whole system review and improvement. It has subsequently been adopted across the UK.

UI  - 23857683
TI  - Performance comparison between the mycobacteria growth indicator tube system and Lwenstein-Jensen medium in the routine detection of Mycobacterium tuberculosis at public health care facilities in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil: preliminary results of a pragmatic clinical trial.
AB  - In view of the fact that the World Health Organization has recommended the use of the mycobacteria growth indicator tube (MGIT) 960 system for the diagnosis of tuberculosis and that there is as yet no evidence regarding the clinical impact of its use in health care systems, we conducted a pragmatic clinical trial to evaluate the clinical performance and cost-effectiveness of the use of MGIT 960 at two health care facilities in the city of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, where the incidence of tuberculosis is high. Here, we summarize the methodology and preliminary results of the trial. (ISRCTN.org Identifier: ISRCTN79888843 [http://isrctn.org/]) In view of the fact that the World Health Organization has recommended the use of the mycobacteria growth indicator tube (MGIT) 960 system for the diagnosis of tuberculosis and that there is as yet no evidence regarding the clinical impact of its use in health care systems, we conducted a pragmatic clinical trial to evaluate the clinical performance and cost-effectiveness of the use of MGIT 960 at two health care facilities in the city of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, where the incidence of tuberculosis is high. Here, we summarize the methodology and preliminary results of the trial. (ISRCTN.org Identifier: ISRCTN79888843 [http://isrctn.org/]).

UI  - 23856439
TI  - Comorbidities and health status in individuals with and without COPD in five Latin American cities: the PLATINO study.
AB  - In the PLATINO population-based study, COPD individuals had an increased number of comorbidities. Age, female gender and higher BMI were the factors associated with comorbidity in these patients. Comorbid conditions were associated with impaired health status, independently of the COPD status.

UI  - 23843980
TI  - Randomized clinical trial of thrice-weekly 4-month moxifloxacin or gatifloxacin containing regimens in the treatment of new sputum positive pulmonary tuberculosis patients.
AB  - Clinical Trials Registry of India CTRI/2012/10/003060.

UI  - 23840618
TI  - Two doses of candidate TB vaccine MVA85A in antiretroviral therapy (ART) nave subjects gives comparable immunogenicity to one dose in ART+ subjects.
AB  - Tuberculosis (TB) is a global public health problem exacerbated by the HIV epidemic. Here we evaluate a candidate TB vaccine, MVA85A, in a Phase I study in HIV-infected adults in Senegal. 24 patients were enrolled: Group 112, antiretroviral therapy (ART) nave, adults, with CD4 counts >300 and HIV RNA load <100,000 copies/ml. Group 212 adults, stable on ART, with CD4 counts >300, and an undetectable HIV RNA load. Safety was evaluated by occurrence of local and systemic adverse events (AEs) and by monitoring of CD4 count, HIV RNA load, haematology and biochemistry. Immunogenicity was evaluated by ex-vivo interferon-gamma ELISpot assay. 87.7% of AEs were mild; 11.6% were moderate; and 0.7% were severe. 29.2% of AEs were systemic; 70.8% were expected local AEs. There were no vaccine-related Serious Adverse Events (SAEs) or clinically significant effects on HIV RNA load or CD4 count. In ART naive subjects, the first MVA85A immunisation induced a significant immune response at 1 and 4 weeks post-immunisation, which contracted to baseline by 12 weeks. Durability of immunogenicity in subjects on ART persisted out to 24 weeks post-vaccination. A second dose of MVA85A at 12 months enhanced immunogenicity in ART nave subjects. Subjects on ART had higher responses after the first vaccination compared with ART nave subjects; responses were comparable after 2 immunisations. In conclusion, MVA85A is well-tolerated and immunogenic in HIV-infected subjects in Senegal. A two dose regimen in ART nave subjects is comparable in immunogenicity to a single dose in subjects on ART. Clinicaltrials.gov trial identifier NCT00731471.

UI  - 23836530
TI  - Prophylaxis for latent tuberculosis infection prior to antitumor necrosis factor therapy in low-risk elderly patients with rheumatoid arthritis: a decision analysis.
AB  - Withholding prophylaxis prior to anti-TNF therapy may be reasonable for low-risk elderly RA patients with a TST finding of 59 mm, although the decision is sensitive to patient preferences. For patients age <61 years from a higher risk country, or with a TST finding >10 mm, prophylaxis is preferred.

UI  - 23827859
TI  - Xpert MTB/RIF in pleural fluid for the diagnosis of tuberculosis.
AB  - An automated nucleic acid amplification assay that simultaneously identifies Mycobacterium tuberculosis and rifampicin resistance, the Xpert MTB/RIF test, has undergone extensive evaluation in sputum samples. Our aim was to define its diagnostic accuracy when performed on pleural fluid specimens. In 67 patients with pleural effusions, of whom half had tuberculous pleuritis, Xpert yielded 15% sensitivity and 100% specificity in the detection of tuberculosis (TB). Positive Xpert results tended to be more common in patients with microbiologically confirmed TB. Due to its low sensitivity, Xpert testing of pleural fluids has a limited role in the work-up of pleural effusions.

UI  - 23827656
TI  - Outcomes of integrated treatment for tuberculosis and HIV in children at the primary health care level.
AB  - Integrated, nurse-centered, pediatric TB-HIV treatment at the PHC level in highly resource-limited settings is feasible and effective in achieving successful outcomes, including high ART uptake, low mortality, and immunological and clinical improvement.

UI  - 23827054
TI  - Evaluation of an enzyme-linked immunospot assay for the immunodiagnosis of atypical spinal tuberculosis (atypical clinical presentation/atypical radiographic presentation) in China.
AB  - The ELISPOT assay is a useful adjunct to current tests for diagnosis of atypical spinal TB.

UI  - 23819226
TI  - [Influence of moxibustion apparatus as adjuvant treatment for pulmonary tuberculosis and patient's immune function].
AB  - On the basis of regular antituberculous therapy, moxibustion apparatus could significantly improve clinical effect, promote focal absorption and boost immunity, which is considered as an adjuvant treatment for PT.

UI  - 23816410
TI  - Impact of tuberculosis treatment on CD4 cell count, HIV RNA, and p24 antigen in patients with HIV and tuberculosis.
AB  - We found no significant changes in CD4, HIV RNA, or p24 antigen levels during 8 months of TB treatment among TB/HIV co-infected individuals, who did not receive antiretroviral treatment. The markers were unaffected by a strong improvement in TBscore and all three markers showed predictive capacity for mortality risk.

UI  - 23809978
TI  - The double burden.
AB  - One third of the world's population is latently infected with Mycobacterium tuberculosis, and with the lifestyle changes succeeding the on-going urbanization, populations already burdened by tuberculosis are experiencing a dramatic increase in chronic diseases, with diabetes being a serious challenge. Tuberculosis and diabetes are not only becoming co-existing diseases. In fact, the diseases interact, and there is evidence to suggest that especially diabetes disease increases the susceptibility for developing active tuberculosis disease. Furthermore, it is plausible that tuberculosis leads to, either transient or permanent, impairment of the glucose metabolism, which ultimately will turn into diabetes. A number of studies from the Americas, Europe, Asia, and, most lately, from sub-Saharan Africa have reported strong association between tuberculosis and diabetes; on average, the estimated risk of active tuberculosis is thrice as high among people with diabetes. The study from sub-Saharan Africa was conducted in Tanzania and is the basis of this thesis. Based on available evidence on the association between tuberculosis and diabetes, the primary aim of the study was to assess the role of diabetes for tuberculosis risk, manifestations, treatment outcomes and survival in a Tanzanian population of tuberculosis patients and non-tuberculosis neighbourhood controls. The study was conducted in Mwanza City in northern Tanzania, with a population exceeding half a million inhabitants, with tuberculosis and HIV being common infections in the region, but with little knowledge about the prevalence of diabetes. We recruited newly diagnosed pulmonary tuberculosis patients from spring 2006 and continuously till the fall 2009, with all participating in a nutritional intervention running in parallel with the medical tuberculosis treatment. All participants underwent diabetes and HIV testing as well as a series of measurements such as anthropometric, clinical and paraclinical parameters. The population was followed up during treatment (2 and 5 months) to assess treatment outcome as well as after one year to assess their survival status. Based on data from 1,250 tuberculosis patients and 350 neighbourhood controls, we found that 38 and 21%, respectively, had impaired glycaemia, and that the prevalence of diabetes was 17 and 9% among tuberculosis patients and controls, respectively. This difference in prevalence between patients and controls was equivalent to an adjusted odds ratio of more than four, indicating a strong association between tuberculosis and diabetes. Furthermore, we found that diabetes was associated with tuberculosis among both participants with or without HIV co-infection. Despite the strong association, diabetes had only moderate clinical implications when the tuberculosis patients initiated the tuberculosis treatment; the patients with diabetes co-morbidity had a minor elevation in the immune response and more frequently reported to have fever. Furthermore, diabetes did not seem to delay time to sputum conversion during treatment. Nevertheless, diabetes co-morbidity led to impaired treatment outcome with slower recovery of weight and haemoglobin and a more than four times higher mortality rate within the initial phase of tuberculosis treatment. In conclusion, in the African region, the double burden of tuberculosis and diabetes is becoming a major health problem. Although the tuberculosis incidence has stabilized during the last decade, the increasing incidence of diabetes will possibly interfere with tuberculosis control and may, consequently, make the tuberculosis incidence increase again. Future research strategies should focus on enhanced diagnostic tools to identify tuberculosis patients with diabetes co-morbidity, and on the role of disease-disease, drug-disease and drug-drug interactions between tuberculosis and diabetes diseases and treatments.

UI  - 23792142
TI  - Phenotypic interaction of simultaneously administered isoniazid and phenytoin in patients with tuberculous meningitis or tuberculoma having seizures.
AB  - Treatment of tuberculous meningitis or tuberculoma has become complicated because of adverse drug interactions found amongst antitubercular and anticonvulsant drugs. The aim of the study is to evaluate the effect of simultaneously administered isoniazid (300 mg/day) and phenytoin (300 mg/day) on 60 patients with tuberculous meningitis or tuberculoma having seizures. Plasma samples were analyzed for isoniazid, acetylated-isoniazid (AcINH) and phenytoin levels by high performance liquid chromatography at 3h of drugs administration and patients were classified as rapid or slow acetylator on the basis of metabolic ratio of isoniazid (Rm) and percentage of acetylated-isoniazid (%AcINH). Out of 60 patients studied, 23 were slow acetylators and 37 were rapid acetylators. Slow acetylators revealed higher plasma isoniazid levels and lower plasma AcINH levels, metabolic ratio and %AcINH as compared to rapid acetylators. Plasma phenytoin levels were found to be significantly higher (above therapeutic range) in slow acetylators as compared to rapid acetylators. Plasma phenytoin concentration was moderately strong, negatively correlated with metabolic ratio (r=-0.439, P<0.001) and %AcINH (r=-0.729, P<0.001). Eight comatose patients (34.8%) also showed significantly higher plasma phenytoin levels. Our results suggest that assessment of acetylator status and plasma phenytoin level is critical for dose optimization of isoniazid and phenytoin and to predict the patients at risk of intoxication.

UI  - 23782980
TI  - Resistance of Mycobacterium tuberculosis to antibiotics in Lao PDR: first multicentric study conducted in 3 hospitals.
AB  - Despite an overall rate of resistance still moderate, the frequency of mutations conferring INH monoresistance and identification of the first strain of XDR require strengthening surveillance of drug resistant tuberculosis in Lao PDR.

UI  - 23782489
TI  - Randomized, placebo-controlled phase II trial of heat-killed Mycobacterium vaccae (Longcom batch) formulated as an oral pill (V7).
AB  - One-month Phase II trial was conducted in 43 sputum smear-positive patients with pulmonary tuberculosis randomized into treatment (n = 22) and placebo (n = 21) arms to investigate the safety and efficacy of an orally-administered therapeutic TB vaccine (V7) containing 10 g of heat-killed Mycobacterium vaccae provided by Longcom company. Immunotherapy and control groups comprised 8 newly diagnosed (1stDx TB; 18.6%), 6 re-treated (RTB; 14%), and 29 multidrug-resistant (MDR-TB; 67.4%) cases distributed at 5:4:13 and 3:2:16 ratios, respectively. Both arms received conventional TB drugs administered under directly observed therapy. The average weight gain in V7 arm was modest, but statistically significant (0.6 kg; p = 0.004), while placebo patients lost 0.1 kg (p = 0.77). Except defervescence and increased lymphocyte percentage, other secondary endpoints such as erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), leukocyte counts and hemoglobin content were not significantly affected. In control patients only one secondary endpoint, ESR, has improved. After one month mycobacterial clearance in sputum smears was observed in 31.8% (p = 0.03) and 9.5% (p = 0.83) of patients on V7 and placebo. However, the difference between outcomes in two arms was below significance threshold (p = 0.07). Thus, larger population of patients with prolonged follow-up is required to support these preliminary findings.

UI  - 23774436
TI  - Evaluation of initial and steady-state gatifloxacin pharmacokinetics and dose in pulmonary tuberculosis patients by using monte carlo simulations.
AB  - A 4-month regimen of gatifloxacin with rifampin, isoniazid, and pyrazinamide is being evaluated for the treatment of tuberculosis in a phase 3 randomized controlled trial (OFLOTUB). A prior single-dose study found that gatifloxacin exposure increased by 14% in the combination. The aims of the study are to evaluate the initial and steady-state pharmacokinetics of gatifloxacin when daily doses are given to patients with newly diagnosed drug-sensitive pulmonary tuberculosis as part of a combination regimen and to evaluate the gatifloxacin dose with respect to the probability of attaining a pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic target. We describe the population pharmacokinetics of gatifloxacin from the first dose to a median of 28 days in 169 adults enrolled in the OFLOTUB trial in Benin, Guinea, Senegal, and South Africa. The probability of achieving a ratio of 125 for the area under the concentration time curve to infinity (AUC0-) for the free fraction of gatifloxacin over the MIC (fAUC/MIC) was investigated using Monte Carlo simulations. The median AUC0- of 41.2 g  h/ml decreased on average by 14.3% (90% confidence interval [CI], -90.5% to +61.5%) following multiple 400-mg daily doses. At steady state, 90% of patients achieved an fAUC/MIC of 125 only when the MIC was <0.125 g/ml. We conclude that systemic exposure to gatifloxacin declines with repeated daily 400-mg doses when used together with rifampin, isoniazid, and pyrazinamide, thus compensating for any initial increase in gatifloxacin levels due to a drug interaction. (The OFLOTUB study has been registered at ClinicalTrials.gov under registration no. NCT00216385.).

UI  - 23766052
TI  - Adoption of the chronic care model to improve HIV care: in a marginalized, largely aboriginal population.
AB  - Application of the CCM approach to HIV care in a marginalized, largely aboriginal patient population led to improved disease screening, immunization, ART uptake, and virologic suppression rates. In addition to addressing underlying social determinants of health, a paradigm shift away from an "infectious disease" approach to a "chronic disease management" approach to HIV care for marginalized populations is strongly recommended.

UI  - 23762029
TI  - Vitamin D induces interleukin-1 expression: paracrine macrophage epithelial signaling controls M. tuberculosis infection.
AB  - Although vitamin D deficiency is a common feature among patients presenting with active tuberculosis, the full scope of vitamin D action during Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) infection is poorly understood. As macrophages are the primary site of Mtb infection and are sites of vitamin D signaling, we have used these cells to understand the molecular mechanisms underlying modulation of the immune response by the hormonal form of vitamin D, 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D (1,25D). We found that the virulent Mtb strain H37Rv elicits a broad host transcriptional response. Transcriptome profiling also revealed that the profile of target genes regulated by 1,25D is substantially altered by infection, and that 1,25D generally boosts infection-stimulated cytokine/chemokine responses. We further focused on the role of 1,25D- and infection-induced interleukin 1 (IL-1) expression in response to infection. 1,25D enhanced IL-1 expression via a direct transcriptional mechanism. Secretion of IL-1 from infected cells required the NLRP3/caspase-1 inflammasome. The impact of IL-1 production was investigated in a novel model wherein infected macrophages were co-cultured with primary human small airway epithelial cells. Co-culture significantly prolonged survival of infected macrophages, and 1,25D/infection-induced IL-1 secretion from macrophages reduced mycobacterial burden by stimulating the anti-mycobacterial capacity of co-cultured lung epithelial cells. These effects were independent of 1,25D-stimulated autophagy in macrophages but dependent upon epithelial IL1R1 signaling and IL-1-driven epithelial production of the antimicrobial peptide DEFB4/HBD2. These data provide evidence that the anti-microbial actions of vitamin D extend beyond the macrophage by modulating paracrine signaling, reinforcing its role in innate immune regulation in humans.

UI  - 23759447
TI  - Transmission of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis in the USA: a cross-sectional study.
AB  - Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

UI  - 23758662
TI  - Impact of a novel molecular TB diagnostic system in patients at high risk of TB mortality in rural South Africa (Uchwepheshe): study protocol for a cluster randomised trial.
AB  - Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN18642314; South African National Clinical Trials Registry DOH-27-0711-3568.

UI  - 23750554
TI  - Impact of diabetes mellitus on clinical parameters and treatment outcomes of newly diagnosed pulmonary tuberculosis patients in Thailand.
AB  - Plasma glucose levels should be monitored in all newly diagnosed PTB patients and a similar treatment regimen should be prescribed to PTB patients with DM and those without DM in high TB-burden countries.

UI  - 23743310
TI  - Changes in QuantiFERON-TB Gold In-Tube results during treatment for tuberculous infection.
AB  - Frequent within-subject variability in QFT-GIT responses, not associated with LTBI treatment, makes it difficult for clinicians to interpret QFT-GIT conversions and reversions.

UI  - 23737382
TI  - Heterologous vaccination against human tuberculosis modulates antigen-specific CD4+ T-cell function.
AB  - Heterologous prime-boost strategies hold promise for vaccination against tuberculosis. However, the T-cell characteristics required for protection are not known. We proposed that boost vaccines should induce long-lived functional and phenotypic changes to T cells primed by Bacille Calmette Guerin (BCG) and/or natural exposure to mycobacteria. We characterized changes among specific CD4(+) T cells after vaccination with the MVA85A vaccine in adults, adolescents, and children. CD4(+) T cells identified with Ag85A peptide-bearing HLA class II tetramers were characterized by flow cytometry. We also measured proliferative potential and cytokine expression of Ag85A-specific CD4(+) T cells. During the effector phase, MVA85A-induced specific CD4(+) T cells coexpressed IFN- and IL-2, skin homing integrins, and the activation marker CD38. This was followed by contraction and a transition to predominantly IL-2-expressing, CD45RA(-) CCR7(+) CD27(+) or CD45RA(+) CCR7(+) CD27(+) specific CD4(+) T cells. These surface phenotypes were similar to Ag85A-specific T cells prior to MVA85A. However, functional differences were observed postvaccination: specific proliferative capacity was markedly higher after 6-12 months than before vaccination. Our data suggest that MVA85A vaccination may modulate Ag85A-specific CD4(+) T-cell function, resulting in greater recall potential. Importantly, surface phenotypes commonly used as proxies for memory T-cell function did not associate with functional effects of vaccination.

UI  - 23735536
TI  - A qualitative assessment of challenges to tuberculosis management and prevention in Northern Ethiopia.
AB  - Health care providers in the Northern Ethiopian regions of Tigray and Amhara identified many challenges to effectively preventing, diagnosing and treating TB. These challenges are complicated by severe resource constraints and challenges in attracting and retaining providers in government hospitals in centers outside Addis Ababa.

UI  - 23733477
TI  - Prevalence and genetic characterization of second-line drug-resistant and extensively drug-resistant Mycobacterium tuberculosis in Rural China.
AB  - This study aimed to investigate the prevalence of resistance to second-line antituberculosis (anti-TB) drugs and its association with resistance-related mutations in Mycobacterium tuberculosis isolated in China. In the present study, we collected 380 isolates from a population-based study in China and tested the drug susceptibility to first- and selected second-line drugs. These results were compared with polymorphisms in the DNA sequences of genes associated with drug resistance and MIC values of the studied second-line drugs. Of 43 multidrug-resistant M. tuberculosis isolates, 13 showed resistance to fluoroquinolones or injectable second-line drugs (preextensively drug-resistant TB [pre-XDR-TB]), and 4 were resistant to both and thus defined as extensively drug-resistant TB (XDR-TB). Age and previous TB therapy, including use of second-line drugs, were two independent factors associated with increased resistance to both first- and second-line drugs. Molecular analysis identified the most frequent mutations in the resistance-associated genes: D94G in gyrA (29.1%) and A1401G in rrs (30.8%). Meanwhile, all 4 XDR-TB isolates had a mutation in gyrA, and 3 of them carried the A1401G mutation in rrs. Mutations in gyrA and rrs were associated with high-level resistance to fluoroquinolones and the second-line injectable drugs. In addition to the identification of resistance-associated mutations and development of a rapid molecular test to diagnose the second-line drug resistance, it should be a priority to strictly regulate the administration of second-line drugs to maintain their efficacy to treat multidrug-resistant TB.

UI  - 23733467
TI  - Efficacy and safety of metronidazole for pulmonary multidrug-resistant tuberculosis.
AB  - Pulmonary lesions from active tuberculosis patients are thought to contain persistent, nonreplicating bacilli that arise from hypoxic stress. Metronidazole, approved for anaerobic infections, has antituberculosis activity against anoxic bacilli in vitro and in some animal models and may target persistent, nonreplicating bacilli. In this double-blind, placebo-controlled trial, pulmonary multidrug-resistant tuberculosis subjects were randomly assigned to receive metronidazole (500 mg thrice daily) or placebo for 8 weeks in addition to an individualized background regimen. Outcomes were measured radiologically (change on high-resolution computed tomography [HRCT]), microbiologically (time to sputum smear and culture conversion), and clinically (status 6 months after stopping therapy). Enrollment was stopped early due to excessive peripheral neuropathies in the metronidazole arm. Among 35 randomized subjects, 31 (15 metronidazole, 16 placebo) were included in the modified intent-to-treat analysis. There were no significant differences by arm in improvement of HRCT lesions from baseline to 2 or 6 months. More subjects in the metronidazole arm converted their sputum smear (P = 0.04) and liquid culture (P = 0.04) to negative at 1 month, but these differences were lost by 2 months. Overall, 81% showed clinical success 6 months after stopping therapy, with no differences by arm. However, 8/16 (50%) of subjects in the metronidazole group and 2/17 (12%) of those in the placebo group developed peripheral neuropathy. Subjects who received metronidazole were 4.3-fold (95% confidence interval [CI], 1.1 to 17.1) more likely to develop peripheral neuropathies than subjects who received placebo. Metronidazole may have increased early sputum smear and culture conversion but was too neurotoxic to use over the longer term. Newer nitroimidazoles with both aerobic and anaerobic activity, now in clinical trials, may increase the sterilizing potency of future treatment regimens.

UI  - 23714270
TI  - Economic support to improve tuberculosis treatment outcomes in South Africa: a pragmatic cluster-randomized controlled trial.
AB  - Our pragmatic trial has shown that, in the real world setting of public sector clinics in South Africa, economic support to patients with tuberculosis does not significantly improve outcomes on treatment. However, the low fidelity to the delivery of our voucher meant that a third of eligible patients did not receive it. Among patients in intervention clinics who received the voucher at least once, treatment success rates were significantly improved. Further operational research is needed to explore how best to ensure the consistent and appropriate delivery of such support to those eligible to receive it.

UI  - 23712475
TI  - Outcome of surgical versus conservative management of cervical spine myelopathy secondary to cervical tuberculosis.
AB  - Cervical spine tuberculosis is a rare infectious disease that is not yet discussed well regarding the optimal method of its management. This is a prospective study of a total of 29 patients with cervical spine tuberculosis with a mean follow-up of 14 months (range, 10-21); they were classified randomly into two groups: group I, patients who underwent anterior cervical decompression and fixation and followed by the anti-tuberculous medications (16 patients) and group II, patients who had conservative anti-tuberculous medications only without surgical intervention (13 patients). All patients had complete clinical assessments using Nurick scale and the modified Japanese Orthopaedic Association score for myelopathy and the visual analogue scale for assessment of cervical pain. We had also neuro-radiographic assessment (cervical spine X-ray and MRI) at the first presentation and at 3, 6, and 12 months later. At final follow-up, significant neurological improvement was demonstrated in both management approaches, more obvious in the surgical group. Cervical pain showed a statistically significant improvement (P<0.05) in surgical group rather than in conservatively treated group. In the surgical group, the mean Cobb angle showed a significant change from a preoperative mean of -3.11.6 to postoperative mean of 16.65.4, significantly correlated to the improvement of cervical pain (P=0.004), while it was changed from a mean of -0.82.2 to a mean of 9.23.8 1 year after starting of medical treatment in group II. In spite of the conservative trend in the management of Pott's disease, surgical management of cervical spine myelopathy secondary to cervical tuberculosis could be the optimal treatment even in an early stage of the disease.

UI  - 23709431
TI  - Tracheal wall thickening is associated with the granulation tissue formation around silicone stents in patients with post-tuberculosis tracheal stenosis.
AB  - Tracheal wall thickening was associated with granulation tissue formation around silicone stents in patients with post-tuberculosis tracheal stenosis.

UI  - 23691171
TI  - Randomised clinical trial investigating the specificity of a novel skin test (C-Tb) for diagnosis of M. tuberculosis infection.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT01033929 and NCT01241188.

UI  - 23691062
TI  - Paradoxical tuberculosis immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome (TB-IRIS) in HIV patients with culture confirmed pulmonary tuberculosis in India and the potential role of IL-6 in prediction.
AB  - Paradoxical TB-IRIS frequently complicates HIV-TB therapy in India. IL-6 and CRP may assist in predicting IRIS events and serve as potential targets for immune interventions.

UI  - 23689722
TI  - Clinical validation of the analysis of linezolid and clarithromycin in oral fluid of patients with multidrug-resistant tuberculosis.
AB  - Linezolid plays an increasingly important role in the treatment of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB). However, patients should be carefully monitored due to time- and dose-dependent toxicity. Clarithromycin plays a more modest role. Therapeutic drug monitoring may contribute to assessment of treatment regimens, helping to reduce toxicity while maintaining adequate drug exposure. Oral fluid sampling could provide a welcome alternative in cases where conventional plasma sampling is not possible or desirable. The aim of this study was to clinically validate the analysis of linezolid and clarithromycin and its metabolite hydroxyclarithromycin in oral fluid of patients with multidrug-resistant tuberculosis. Serum and oral fluid samples were simultaneously obtained and analyzed by using validated methods, after extensive cross-validation between the two matrices. Passing-Bablok regressions and Bland-Altman analysis showed that oral fluid analysis of linezolid and clarithromycin appeared to be suitable for therapeutic drug monitoring in MDR-TB patients. No correction factor is needed for the interpretation of linezolid oral fluid concentrations with a ratio of the linezolid concentration in serum to that in oral fluid of 0.97 (95% confidence interval [CI], 0.92 to 1.02). However, the clarithromycin concentration serum/clarithromycin concentration in oral fluid ratio is 3.07 (95% CI, 2.45 to 3.69). Analysis of hydroxyclarithromycin in oral fluid was not possible in this study due to a nonlinear relationship between the concentration in serum and that in oral fluid. In conclusion, the analysis of linezolid (no correction factor) and clarithromycin (correction factor of 3) in oral fluid is applicable for therapeutic drug monitoring in cases of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis as an alternative to conventional serum sampling. Easy sampling using a noninvasive technique may facilitate therapeutic drug monitoring for specific patient categories.

UI  - 23680290
TI  - Immigrants do not transmit tuberculosis more than indigenous patients in Catalonia (Spain).
AB  - Immigrants do not transmit TB more than indigenous TB patients. Infections which may have occurred in the countries of origin of immigrants were detected by the systematic study of contacts.

UI  - 23676174
TI  - Current epidemiology of childhood tuberculous meningitis in Greece: a 10-year population-based study.
AB  - 

UI  - 23676162
TI  - Contribution of the Ogawa-Kudoh swab culture method to the diagnosis of pulmonary tuberculosis in Brazil.
AB  - O-K culture contributes significantly to the diagnosis of smear-negative PTB. Importantly, this method allows the recovery of clinical isolates in areas where use of the standard culture centrifuge is impossible, indicating that the O-K swab culture method should become a standard method for TB diagnosis in these regions.

UI  - 23671968
TI  - Significance of adenosine deaminase in diagnosing tuberculous pleural effusion.
AB  - Tuberculosis (TB) is a major public health problem in developing countries including Nepal. One of the common presentations of TB is pleural effusion. The diagnosis of tubercular pleural effusion can be difficult because of the low rate of detecting tubercule bacilli by direct stain and culture of pleural fluid for acid-fast bacilli (AFB). Pleural biopsy can be useful but is invasive and requires experts. In this context, pleural fluid Adenosine Deaminase (ADA) level has been proposed as easy, cheap and highly sensitive test for diagnosis of TB pleural effusion. The present study was undertaken to define the role ofpleural fluid ADA value in accurate diagnosis of TB pleural effusion. A Prospective analysis of 100 patients admitted in Nepal Medical College and teaching Hospital with pleural effusion was done. Pleural fluid ADA level was evaluated in all patients, and significance of pleural fluid ADA level in TB pleural effusion was studied. It was found that mean ADA level in pleural fluid was 105.8 +/- 67.23 U/L in cases of TB, as compared to 16.83 +/- 8.91 U/L in malignancy, 44.53 +/- 32.84 U/L in parapneumonic effusion and 15.94 +/- 4.88 U/L in patients with miscellaneous diagnosis. For a cut-off value of 42.19 U/L for diagnosis of TB pleural effusion, sensitivity was found to be 90.8% and specificity 82.8%. Almost all patients diagnosed to have TB pleural effusion responded completely to anti-tubercular treatment. So, we concluded that pleural fluid ADA analysis could be easy, cheap and highly sensitive and specific test for diagnosis of TB pleural effusion.

UI  - 23668466
TI  - Screening employees of services for homeless individuals in Montral for tuberculosis infection.
AB  - The results of a tuberculin skin test (TST) screening program offered to employees of services for homeless people in Montral from 1998 to 2005 were analyzed to assess the occupational risk of tuberculosis (TB) infection. Employees with no known contact with TB were selected among volunteer participants. They were followed in two dynamic cohorts: individuals with a negative two-step baseline TST (cohort A) and individuals with a negative single baseline TST (cohort B). We estimated the prevalences of initial positive TST, boosting effect, and conversion rate. The average age of the workers was 38.9 years. The prevalence of an initial positive TST was 12.9%. A booster effect was observed in 5.1% of workers who completed a two-step TST. The incidence of conversion was 2.3/100 person-years for cohort A (n=93) and 3.5/100 person-years for cohort B (n=221). The incidence of conversion was not significantly associated with any of the demographics or workplace factors investigated. Our findings are comparable to the rates reported among community workers, whose risk is higher than the average health worker. This suggests that there are occasional unidentified contagious cases among the homeless individuals of participating institutions.

UI  - 23648948
TI  - Action to stop smoking in suspected tuberculosis (ASSIST) in Pakistan: a cluster randomized, controlled trial.
AB  - International Development Research Centre.

UI  - 23648145
TI  - Diabetes is a strong predictor of mortality during tuberculosis treatment: a prospective cohort study among tuberculosis patients from Mwanza, Tanzania.
AB  - Diabetes considerably increases risk of early mortality during TB treatment. The effect may not be explained by increased severity of TB, but could be due to impaired TB treatment response. Research is needed to clarify the mechanism and to assess whether glycaemic control improves survival.

UI  - 23636235
TI  - Weight change at 1 mo of antiretroviral therapy and its association with subsequent mortality, morbidity, and CD4 T cell reconstitution in a Tanzanian HIV-infected adult cohort.
AB  - Weight loss as early as 1 mo after ART initiation can identify adults at high risk of adverse outcomes. Studies identifying reasons for and managing early weight loss are needed to improve HIV treatment, with particular urgency for malnourished adults initiating ART. The parent trial was registered at clinicaltrials.gov as NCT00383669.

UI  - 23613834
TI  - Induced sputum MMP-1, -3 & -8 concentrations during treatment of tuberculosis.
AB  - MMPs are elevated in TB patients and associate with disease severity. This matrix-degrading phenotype resolves rapidly with treatment. The MMP profile at presentation correlates with a delayed treatment response.

UI  - 23590701
TI  - Oral intake of phenylbutyrate with or without vitamin D3 upregulates the cathelicidin LL-37 in human macrophages: a dose finding study for treatment of tuberculosis.
AB  - The results demonstrate that 500mg b.d. PB with 5000IU o.d. vitamin D3 is the optimal dose for the induction of LL-37 in macrophages and lymphocytes and intracellular killing of Mtb by macrophages. Hence, this dose has potential application in the treatment of TB and is now being used in a clinical trial of adults with active pulmonary TB (NCT01580007).

UI  - 23585318
TI  - Cranial nerve palsy as a factor to differentiate tuberculous meningitis from acute bacterial meningitis.
AB  - Tuberculous meningitis (TBM) and acute bacterial meningitis (ABM) cause substantial mortality and morbidity in both children and adults. Identification of poor prognostic factors at patient's admission could prepare physicians for more aggressive monitoring of patients with meningitis. The objective of this study was to determine the predictive value of neurological features to differentiate ABM and TBM. A retrospective study was conducted between patients affected with ABM or TBM admitted to three teaching hospitals during the last 14 years in Zahedan the central city of Sistan and Balouchestan province (Iran). The neurological features include seizure, level of consciousness, stroke, focal neurologic deficit and cranial nerve palsy at the time of admission. Mean age for patients with TBM and ABM were 41  22.4 and 24  18.5 years respectively. In univariate analysis, all measured variables revealed significant difference between ABM and TBM patients except for seizure episodes. Multivariate logistic regression analysis showed positive predictive effect of cranial nerve palsy (AOR=1.980, CI 95%: 1.161-3.376) on the diagnosis of TBM. In our study cranial nerve palsies was the most important neurological predictor factor to differentiate TBM from ABM.

UI  - 23583897
TI  - Non-specific effect of Bacille Calmette-Gurin vaccine on the immune response to routine immunisations.
AB  - Bacille Calmette-Gurin (BCG) is one of the most commonly administered vaccines worldwide. In addition to protection against tuberculosis (TB), evidence suggests that BCG immunisation has a number of additional beneficial non-specific immunological effects. These include a reduction in overall infant and child mortality attributable to causes other than TB in high-mortality regions. The antibody response to immunisations provides an opportunity to investigate the influence of BCG on the immune response to unrelated antigens. This study compared the antibody response to routine immunisations in BCG-immunised and non-BCG-immunised infants. BCG-immunised infants were recruited from a related study in which BCG was given at birth and non-BCG-immunised infants were recruited from immunisation clinics. All infants received their routine immunisations according to the Australian National Immunisation Program. Concentrations of antibodies against pneumococcal (anti-Pn Ps), Haemophilus influenzae type B (anti-Hib), tetanus toxoid (anti-TT) and hepatitis B surface (anti-HBs) antigen were measured four weeks after the last (six month) set of infant immunisations. A total of 127 parents agreed for their infants to take part in the study of which 108 were included in the final analysis (56 BCG-immunised and 52 non-BCG-immunised). The geometric mean concentration (GMC) of anti-Pn Ps IgG for all serotypes, anti-Hib IgG and anti-TT IgG were higher in the BCG-immunised group than the non-BCG-immunised group. This difference reached statistical significance for serotype 9V (p<0.01) and 18C (p=0.04). The GMC of anti-HBs IgG was lower in the BCG-immunised group than the non-BCG-immunised group (p=0.03). The majority of participants in both groups had antibody levels above the protective threshold. BCG immunisation at birth influences the antibody response to routine immunisations administered later in infancy. This has important implications for the introduction of both pneumococcal conjugate and novel TB vaccines in resource-limited countries.

UI  - 23581261
TI  - Pulmonary tuberculosis incidence in Turkish prisons: importance of screening and case finding strategies.
AB  - Prisoners are one of the most important risk groups with high burden of tuberculosis in Turkey. This result highlights the need for adequate case- finding strategies in prisons.

UI  - 23575324
TI  - Tuberculosis patients in primary care do not start treatment. What role do health system delays play?
AB  - Initial loss to follow-up should be reported as part of the TB programme to ensure that patients are initiated on treatment to prevent transmission within communities.

UI  - 23571542
TI  - Model-based estimates of the effects of efavirenz on bedaquiline pharmacokinetics and suggested dose adjustments for patients coinfected with HIV and tuberculosis.
AB  - Safe, effective concomitant treatment regimens for tuberculosis (TB) and HIV infection are urgently needed. Bedaquiline (BDQ) is a promising new anti-TB drug, and efavirenz (EFV) is a commonly used antiretroviral. Due to EFV's induction of cytochrome P450 3A4, the metabolic enzyme responsible for BDQ biotransformation, the drugs are expected to interact. Based on data from a phase I, single-dose pharmacokinetic study, a nonlinear mixed-effects model characterizing BDQ pharmacokinetics and interaction with multiple-dose EFV was developed. BDQ pharmacokinetics were best described by a 3-compartment disposition model with absorption through a dynamic transit compartment model. Metabolites M2 and M3 were described by 2-compartment models with clearance of BDQ and M2, respectively, as input. Impact of induction was described as an instantaneous change in clearance 1 week after initialization of EFV treatment and estimated for all compounds. The model predicts average steady-state concentrations of BDQ and M2 to be reduced by 52% (relative standard error [RSE], 3.7%) with chronic coadministration. A range of models with alternative structural assumptions regarding onset of induction effect and fraction metabolized resulted in similar estimates of the typical reduction and did not offer a markedly better fit to data. Simulations to investigate alternative regimens mitigating the estimated interaction effect were performed. The results suggest that simple adjustments of the standard regimen during EFV coadministration can prevent reduced exposure to BDQ without increasing exposures to M2. However, exposure to M3 would increase. Evaluation in clinical trials of adjusted regimens is necessary to ensure appropriate dosing for HIV-infected TB patients on an EFV-based regimen.

UI  - 23562367
TI  - Immunogenicity of mycobacterial vesicles in humans: identification of a new tuberculosis antibody biomarker.
AB  - Biomarkers for active tuberculosis (TB) are urgently needed. Mycobacteria produce membrane vesicles (MVs) that contain concentrated immune-modulatory factors that are released into the host. We evaluated the human immune responses to BCG and Mycobacterium tuberculosis MVs to characterize the antibody responses and identify potentially novel TB biomarkers. Serological responses to MVs were evaluated by ELISAs and immunoblots with sera from 16 sputum smear-positive, 12 smear-negative HIV uninfected pulmonary TB patients and 16 BCG vaccinated Tuberculin skin-test positive controls with and without latent tuberculosis infection. MVs from both BCG and M. tuberculosis induced similar responses and were strongly immunogenic in TB patients but not in controls. Several MV-associated antigens appear to induce robust antibody responses, in particular the arabinomanan portion of the cell wall glycolipid lipoarabinomannan. Three proteins at  36, 25, and 23 kDa were simultaneously recognized by sera from 16/16 smear-positive, 9/12 smear-negative TB patients and 0/16 controls. These results provide promise and encouragement that antibody responses to proteins enriched in MVs of pathogenic mycobacteria may constitute a novel TB biomarker signature that could have diagnostic information.

UI  - 23555576
TI  - A broad profile of co-dominant epitopes shapes the peripheral Mycobacterium tuberculosis specific CD8+ T-cell immune response in South African patients with active tuberculosis.
AB  - We studied major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I peptide-presentation and nature of the antigen-specific CD8+ T-cell response from South African tuberculosis (TB) patients with active TB. 361 MHC class I binding epitopes were identified from three immunogenic TB proteins (ESAT-6 [Rv3875], Ag85B [Rv1886c], and TB10.4 [Rv0288], including amino acid variations for Rv0288, i.e., A10T, G13D, S27N, and A71S for MHC allotypes common in a South African population (e.g., human leukocyte antigen [HLA]-A*30, B*58, and C*07). Inter-allelic differences were identified regarding the broadness of the peptide-binding capacity. Mapping of frequencies of Mycobacterium tuberculosis (M. tb) antigen-specific CD8+ T-cells using 48 different multimers, including the newly constructed recombinant MHC class I alleles HLA-B*58:01 and C*0701, revealed a low frequency of CD8+ T-cell responses directed against a broad panel of co-dominant M. tb epitopes in the peripheral circulation of most patients. The antigen-specific responses were dominated by CD8+ T-cells with a precursor-like phenotype (CD45RA+CCR7+). The data show that the CD8+ T-cell response from patients with pulmonary TB (prior to treatment) is directed against subdominant epitopes derived from secreted and non-secreted M. tb antigens and that variant, natural occurring M. tb Rv0288 ligands, have a profound impact on T-cell recognition.

UI  - 23554875
TI  - Pulmonary tuberculosis incidence and risk factors in rural areas of China: a cohort study.
AB  - The incidence of tuberculosis (TB) and its risk factors in China remains unclear. This study examined TB incidence and relative risk factors in rural areas of China. Participants (n = 177,529) were recruited in Xiangtan County (in the central area of China) and in Danyang County (in the eastern area of China) in 2009 and a followed-up study was conducted for one year. The incidence density of pulmonary TB and smear-positive TB were 91.6 (95% CI: 78.7, 106.0) per 100,000 person-year and 36.7 (95% CI: 33.1, 52.4) per 100,000 person-year respectively in Xiangtan, and 47.3 (95% CI: 38.2, 57.5) per 100,000 person-year and 22.7 (95% CI: 16.5, 30.8) per 100,000 person-year in Danyang. The medical history of TB was associated with TB, with the relative risk (RR) of 7.00 (95% CI: 2.76, 17.18) in Xiangtan and that of 31.08 (95% CI: 13.22, 73.10) in Danyang. The association between TB and per capita living space over median was found in Xiangtan, with the RR of 1.86 (95% CI: 1.15, 3.01). No association was found between TB and the insurance status, the contact history with TB, the history of diabetes, smoking, or per capita annual income. The host genetic susceptibility, and social factors such as education and income could be considered in future studies.

UI  - 23546935
TI  - Clinical benefit of delamanid (OPC-67683) in the treatment of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis patients in China.
AB  - The cure rates are much lower for multidrug-resistant (MDR) tuberculosis (TB) patients. Delamanid (OPC-67683) has been evaluated in phase-II MDR-TB clinical trials. Herein, we reviewed MDR-TB cases in which treatment regimens, with/without delamanid, were administered. Thirty-eight patients were enrolled; 26 received delamanid-containing regimens (treatment group) while 12 received placebo-containing regimens (control group) for 56 days. Data regarding clinical/radio-microbiological characteristics, drug tolerability, and treatment outcomes were collected. We found that all patients had isolates resistant to a median of 5 (range 2-7) drugs; 24 (92.3%) patients in treatment group and 11 (91.7%) in control group had cavities. Culture conversion was obtained in 32 pulmonary TB cases (median 74.5 days). At data censure, 30/38 patients successfully completed therapy with documented negative cultures for at least 18 months before the end of treatment. Two patients (5 consecutive negative cultures) are still on treatment. Six patients had poor outcome (3 failures/2 lost/1 death). In 13 patients, adverse events were observed that included mental disorder, QT interval prolongation, and increased blood cortisol whereas only 3 patients stopped delamanid treatment because of adverse events. It was, therefore, concluded that delamanid was well-tolerated, had low rates of discontinuation, and could be effective for treating MDR-TB.

UI  - 23540091
TI  - HIV positivity in TB suspects--an observational, non-randomized study.
AB  - The risk of developing TB increases in patients with HIV. So, HIV and TB programmes should be collaborated together and should be closely integrated with medical care to curb the spread of these deadly diseases.

UI  - 23539943
TI  - Thai health education program for improving TB migrant's compliance.
AB  - The tuberculosis treatment and care program, and the associated health education interventions enabled migrants to complete the treatment regimen and achieve treatment success. It could also help TB staff develop an appropriate program and clear understanding of TB control among migrants. It is recommended that this type of information and health education program be used in other hospitals and healthcare settings providing TB services for migrants throughout the nation.

UI  - 23534752
TI  - Clinical impact and reliability of carbonic anhydrase XII in the differentiation of malignant and tuberculous pleural effusions.
AB  - Pleural fluid CAXII is elevated in pleural effusions from lung cancer patients. Measurement of CAXII may be used in the future as a valuable adjunct to cytology in the diagnostic assessment of patients with pleural effusions related to lung cancer, especially when cytological examination is inconclusive.

UI  - 23533318
TI  - Pregnancy outcomes in HIV-infected women receiving long-term isoniazid prophylaxis for tuberculosis and antiretroviral therapy.
AB  - Long-term isoniazid prophylaxis was not associated with adverse pregnancy outcomes, such as preterm delivery, even in the context of ART exposure.

UI  - 23529740
TI  - Phase I, single-dose, dose-escalating study of inhaled dry powder capreomycin: a new approach to therapy of drug-resistant tuberculosis.
AB  - Multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) threatens global TB control. The lengthy treatment includes one of the injectable drugs kanamycin, amikacin, and capreomycin, usually for the first 6 months. These drugs have potentially serious toxicities, and when given as intramuscular injections, dosing can be painful. Advances in particulate drug delivery have led to the formulation of capreomycin as the first antituberculosis drug available as a microparticle dry powder for inhalation and clinical study. Delivery by aerosol may result in successful treatment with lower doses. Here we report a phase I, single-dose, dose-escalating study aimed at demonstrating safety and tolerability in healthy subjects and measuring pharmacokinetic (PK) parameters. Twenty healthy adults (n = 5 per group) were recruited to self-administer a single dose of inhaled dry powder capreomycin (25-mg, 75-mg, 150-mg, or 300-mg nominal dose) using a simple, handheld delivery device. Inhalations were well tolerated by all subjects. The most common adverse event was mild to moderate transient cough, in five subjects. There were no changes in lung function, audiometry, or laboratory parameters. Capreomycin was rapidly absorbed after inhalation. Systemic concentrations were detected in each dose group within 20 min. Peak and mean plasma concentrations of capreomycin were dose proportional. Serum concentrations exceeded 2 g/ml (MIC for Mycobacterium tuberculosis) following the highest dose; the half-life (t1/2) was 4.8  1.0 h. A novel inhaled microparticle dry powder formulation of capreomycin was well tolerated. A single 300-mg dose rapidly achieved serum drug concentrations above the MIC for Mycobacterium tuberculosis, suggesting the potential of inhaled therapy as part of an MDR-TB treatment regimen.

UI  - 23523641
TI  - Increased mortality associated with treated active tuberculosis in HIV-infected adults in Tanzania.
AB  - Active tuberculosis (TB) among HIV-infected patients, even when successfully treated, may be associated with excess mortality. We conducted a prospective cohort study nested in a randomized TB vaccine trial to compare mortality between HIV-infected patients diagnosed and treated for TB (TB, n = 77) and HIV-infected patients within the same CD4 range, who were not diagnosed with or treated for active TB (non-TB, n = 308) in the period 2001-2008. Only twenty four subjects (6%) were on antiretroviral therapy at the beginning of this study. After accounting for covariate effects including use of antiretroviral therapy, isoniazid preventive therapy, and receipt of vaccine, we found a four-fold increase in mortality in TB patients compared with non-TB patients (adjusted Hazard Ratio 4.61; 95% Confidence Interval (CI): 1.63, 13.05). These findings suggest that treatment for TB alone is not sufficient to avert the excess mortality associated with HIV-related TB and that prevention of TB may provide a mortality benefit.

UI  - 23520311
TI  - Clarithromycin increases linezolid exposure in multidrug-resistant tuberculosis patients.
AB  - The use of linezolid for the treatment of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis is limited by dose- and time-dependent toxicity. Recently, we reported a case of pharmacokinetic drug-drug interaction between linezolid and clarithromycin that resulted in increased linezolid exposure. The aim of this prospective pharmacokinetic study is to quantify the effect of clarithromycin on the exposure of linezolid. Subjects were included in an open-label, single-centre, single-arm, fixed-order pharmacokinetic interaction study. All subjects received 300 mg linezolid twice daily during the entire study, consecutively co-administered with 250 mg and 500 mg clarithromycin once daily. Steady-state serum curves of linezolid and clarithromycin were analysed using validated methods, and differences between pharmacokinetic parameters were calculated. Linezolid exposure increased by a median (interquartile range) of 44% (23-102%, p=0.043) after co-administration of 500 mg clarithromycin (n=5) compared to baseline, whereas 250 mg clarithromycin had no statistically significant effect. Co-administration was well tolerated by most patients; none experienced severe adverse effects. One patient reported common toxicity criteria grade 2 gastrointestinal adverse events. In this study, we showed that clarithromycin significantly increased linezolid serum exposure after combining clarithromycin with linezolid in multidrug-resistant tuberculosis patients. The drug-drug interaction is possibly P-glycoprotein-mediated. Due to large interpatient variability, therapeutic drug monitoring is advisable to determine individual effect size.

UI  - 23515537
TI  - Multicenter evaluation of genechip for detection of multidrug-resistant Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
AB  - Drug-resistant tuberculosis (TB), especially multidrug-resistant TB (MDR-TB), is still one of the most serious threats to TB control worldwide. Early diagnosis of MDR-TB is important for effectively blocking transmission and establishing an effective protocol for chemotherapy. Genechip is a rapid diagnostic method based on molecular biology that overcomes the poor biosafety, time consumption, and other drawbacks of traditional drug sensitivity testing (DST) that can detect MDR-TB. However, the Genechip approach has not been effectively evaluated, especially in limited-resource laboratories. In this study, we evaluated the performance of Genechip for MDR-TB in 1,814 patients in four prefectural or municipal laboratories and compared its performance with that of traditional DST. The results showed that the sensitivity and specificity of Genechip were 87.56% and 97.95% for rifampin resistance and 80.34% and 95.82% for isoniazid resistance, respectively. In addition, we found that the positive grade of the sputum smears influenced the judgment of results by Genechip. The test judged only 75% of the specimens of "scanty" positive grade. However, the positive grade of the specimens showed no influence on the accuracy of Genechip. Overall, the study suggests that, in limited-resource laboratories, Genechip showed high sensitivity and specificity for rifampin and isoniazid resistance, making it a more effective, rapid, safe, and cost-beneficial method worthy of broader use in limited-resource laboratories in China.

UI  - 23490304
TI  - Effectiveness of alcohol treatment interventions integrated into routine tuberculosis care in Tomsk, Russia.
AB  - In Tomsk Oblast, Russia, tuberculosis patients with severe alcohol use disorders who were not seeking alcohol treatment did not respond to naltrexone or behavioral counselling integrated into tuberculosis care; however, those patients with past attempts to quit drinking had improved tuberculosis outcomes.

UI  - 23486643
TI  - Clinical effects of gemifloxacin on the delay of tuberculosis treatment.
AB  - Although gemifloxacin has low in vitro activity against Mycobacterium tuberculosis, the effect of gemifloxacin on the delay of tuberculosis (TB) treatment has not been validated in a clinical setting. The study group included patients with culture-confirmed pulmonary TB who initially received gemifloxacin for suspected community-acquired pneumonia (CAP). Two control groups contained patients treated with other fluoroquinolones or nonfluoroquinolone antibiotics. Sixteen cases were treated with gemifloxacin for suspected CAP before TB diagnosis. Sixteen and 32 patients were treated with other fluoroquinolones and nonfluoroquinolones, respectively. The median period from the initiation of antibiotics to the administration of anti-TB medication was nine days in the gemifloxacin group, which was significantly different from the other fluoroquinolones group (35 days). The median times for the nonfluoroquinolone group and the gemifloxacin group were not significantly different. There were no significant differences between the gemifloxacin and other fluoroquinolone group in terms of symptomatic and radiographic improvements. However, the frequency of radiographic improvement in the other fluoroquinolones group tended to be higher than in the gemifloxacin group. Gemifloxacin might be the preferred fluoroquinolone for treating CAP, to alleviate any concerns about delaying TB treatment.

UI  - 23485389
TI  - Cost utility of lateral-flow urine lipoarabinomannan for tuberculosis diagnosis in HIV-infected African adults.
AB  - For every 1000 patients tested, adding lateral-flow urine LAM generated 80 incremental appropriate anti-tuberculosis treatments and averted 224 DALYs. Estimated cost utility was US$353 per DALY averted (95% uncertainty range $192$1161) in South Africa and $86 per DALY averted (95% uncertainty range $49$239) in Uganda, reflecting the lower treatment costs in Uganda. Cost utility was most sensitive to assay specificity, cost of anti-tuberculosis treatment, life expectancy after TB cure and cohort TB prevalence, but did not rise above $1500 per DALY averted in South Africa under any one-way sensitivity analysis. The probability of acceptability was >99.8% at a per-DALY willingness-to-pay threshold equal to the per capita gross domestic product in South Africa ($7275) and Uganda ($509).

UI  - 23485388
TI  - Screening for pulmonary tuberculosis in HIV-infected individuals: AIDS Clinical Trials Group Protocol A5253.
AB  - Symptom-based screening with smear microscopy was insufficiently sensitive. More sensitive diagnostic testing is required for HIV-infected patients.

UI  - 23485382
TI  - Sex disparities in tuberculosis suspect evaluation: a cross-sectional analysis in rural Uganda.
AB  - Strategies to ensure that women receive appropriate TB evaluation could provide a valuable opportunity for increasing case detection while also promoting equitable and universal access to care.

UI  - 23485381
TI  - Acceptance of treatment for latent tuberculosis infection: prospective cohort study in the United States and Canada.
AB  - This is the first prospective multisite study to examine predictors of LTBI treatment acceptance in general clinic populations. Greater efforts should be made to increase acceptance among health care workers, those previously recommended for treatment and those who expect problems with LTBI medicines. Ensuring convenient clinic schedules and TB education to increase knowledge could be important for ensuring acceptance.

UI  - 23479321
TI  - Systemic immune activation and microbial translocation in dual HIV/tuberculosis-infected subjects.
AB  - During HIV/tuberculosis, systemic immune activation is dissociated from microbial translocation. Changes in circulating sCD14 and LPS are dependent on CD4 T-cell count.

UI  - 23469242
TI  - Current integration of tuberculosis (TB) and HIV services in South Africa, 2011.
AB  - As of February 2011, integration of TB and HIV services is taking place in public medical facilities in South Africa. Among these services, IPT in people living with HIV and ART in TB patients are the least available.

UI  - 23459487
TI  - Randomized dose-ranging study of the 14-day early bactericidal activity of bedaquiline (TMC207) in patients with sputum microscopy smear-positive pulmonary tuberculosis.
AB  - Bedaquiline is a new antituberculosis agent targeting ATP synthase. This randomized, double-blinded study enrolling 68 sputum smear-positive pulmonary tuberculosis patients evaluated the 14-day early bactericidal activity of daily doses of 100 mg, 200 mg, 300 mg, and 400 mg bedaquiline, preceded by loading doses of 200 mg, 400 mg, 500 mg, and 700 mg, respectively, on the first treatment day and 100 mg, 300 mg, 400 mg, and 500 mg on the second treatment day. All groups showed activity with a mean (standard deviation) daily fall in log10 CFU over 14 days of 0.040 (0.068), 0.056 (0.051), 0.077 (0.064), and 0.104 (0.077) in the 100-mg, 200-mg, 300-mg, and 400-mg groups, respectively. The linear trend for dose was significant (P = 0.001), and activity in the 400-mg dose group was greater than that in the 100-mg group (P = 0.014). All of the bedaquiline groups showed significant bactericidal activity that was continued to the end of the 14-day evaluation period. The finding of a linear trend for dose suggests that the highest dose compatible with safety considerations should be taken forward to longer-term clinical studies.

UI  - 23458555
TI  - Screening of patients with tuberculosis for diabetes mellitus in India.
AB  - This pilot project shows that it is important and feasible to screen patients with TB for DM in the routine setting, resulting in earlier identification of DM in some patients and opportunities for better management of comorbidity. A policy decision has since been made by the National TB Control Programme of India to implement this intervention countrywide.

UI  - 23449984
TI  - Human IL10 gene repression by Rev-erb ameliorates Mycobacterium tuberculosis clearance.
AB  - Nuclear receptors modulate macrophage effector functions, which are imperative for clearance or survival of mycobacterial infection. The adopted orphan nuclear receptor Rev-erb is a constitutive transcriptional repressor as it lacks AF2 domain and was earlier shown to be present in macrophages. In the present study, we highlight the differences in the relative subcellular localization of Rev-erb in monocytes and macrophages. The nuclear localization of Rev-erb in macrophages is subsequent to monocyte differentiation. Expression analysis of Rev-erb elucidated it to be considerably more expressed in M1 phenotype in comparison with M2. Rev-erb overexpression augments antimycobacterial properties of macrophage by keeping IL10 in a basal repressed state. Further, promoter analysis revealed that IL10 promoter harbors a Rev-erb binding site exclusive to humans and higher order primates and not mouse, demonstrating a species barrier in its functionality. This direct gene repression is mediated by recruitment of co-repressors NCoR and HDAC3. In addition, our data elucidate that its overexpression reduced the survival of intracellular pathogen Mycobacterium tuberculosis by enhancing phagosome lysosome maturation, an event resulting from IL10 repression. Thus, these findings suggest that Rev-erb bestows protection against mycobacterial infection by direct gene repression of IL10 and thus provide a novel target in modulating macrophage microbicidal properties.

UI  - 23442225
TI  - Rationale and design of a randomized controlled trial of the effect of retinol and vitamin D supplementation on treatment in active pulmonary tuberculosis patients with diabetes.
AB  - ChiCTR-TRC-12002546.

UI  - 23433590
TI  - Nevirapine versus efavirenz for patients co-infected with HIV and tuberculosis: a randomised non-inferiority trial.
AB  - French Research Agency for HIV/AIDS and hepatitis (ANRS).

UI  - 23432610
TI  - Model-based evaluation of the pharmacokinetic differences between adults and children for lopinavir and ritonavir in combination with rifampicin.
AB  - The model characterized important differences between adults and children in the effect of rifampicin on the pharmacokinetics of lopinavir and ritonavir. As adult studies cannot reliably predict their magnitude in children, drug-drug interactions should be evaluated in paediatric patient populations.

UI  - 23410889
TI  - Lessons learnt from the first efficacy trial of a new infant tuberculosis vaccine since BCG.
AB  - The clinical, regulatory and research environment for modern efficacy trials of new TB vaccines are substantially different to that when BCG vaccine was first evaluated in infants. Future infant TB vaccine trials will need to allocate sufficient resources and optimise operational efficiency. A stringent TB case definition is necessary to maximize specificity, and TB case accrual must be monitored closely.

UI  - 23409922
TI  - Glutathione supplementation improves macrophage functions in HIV.
AB  - In this study, we determined the effects of glutathione (GSH)-enhancing agents in restoring the levels of GSH in isolated macrophages from individuals with HIV infection thereby resulting in improved control of Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Our results indicate that treatment with N-acetyl cysteine or a liposomal formulation of glutathione (lGSH) resulted in replenishment of reduced also known as free GSH (rGSH), and correlated with a decrease in the intracellular growth of M. tuberculosis. Finally, we observed differences in the amount of the catalytic subunit of glutamine-cysteine ligase (GCLC), glutathione synthase, and glutathione reductase present in macrophages derived from healthy and HIV-infected individuals. These changes correlated with changes in free radicals as well as rGSH levels. Our results indicate that HIV infection leads to increased production of free radicals and decreased production of GCLC resulting in depletion of rGSH and this may lead, in part, to the loss of innate immune function observed in HIV patients. These findings represent a novel mechanism for control of M. tuberculosis infection, and a possible supplement to current HIV treatments.

UI  - 23407227
TI  - Free tuberculosis diagnosis and treatment are not enough: patient cost evidence from three continents.
AB  - We observed similar patterns and challenges of TB-related costs for patients across the three countries. We advocate for global, united action for TB patients to be included under social protection schemes and for national TB programmes to improve equitable access to care.

UI  - 23407221
TI  - Rifampicin plus isoniazid for the prevention of tuberculosis in an immigrant population.
AB  - The 3RH regimen facilitates adherence to LTBI treatment and offers a safe, well-tolerated and effective alternative.

UI  - 23393710
TI  - Pulmonary resection for multidrug-resistant tuberculosis: the Israeli experience (1998-2011).
AB  - Pulmonary resection for MDR-TB patients is an effective adjunctive treatment with acceptable morbidity and mortality.

UI  - 23391465
TI  - Safety and efficacy of MVA85A, a new tuberculosis vaccine, in infants previously vaccinated with BCG: a randomised, placebo-controlled phase 2b trial.
AB  - Aeras, Wellcome Trust, and Oxford-Emergent Tuberculosis Consortium (OETC).

UI  - 23367826
TI  - [Multicenter study on clinical features and genetic characteristics of Mycobacterium avium strains from patients in Japan with lung disease caused by M. avium].
AB  - Polyclonal infection and clarithromycin resistance may be involved in disease progression. ISMav6 inserted into the cfp29 gene is also suggested to be a factor related to the deterioration of pulmonary Mycobacterium avium complex disease.

UI  - 23351812
TI  - Rationale and design of the Investigation of the Management of Pericarditis (IMPI) trial: a 2  2 factorial randomized double-blind multicenter trial of adjunctive prednisolone and Mycobacterium w immunotherapy in tuberculous pericarditis.
AB  - IMPI is the largest trial yet conducted comparing adjunctive immunotherapy in pericarditis. Its results will define the role of adjunctive corticosteroids and M. w immunotherapy in patients with TB pericardial effusion.

UI  - 23350192
TI  - [Remaxol hepatoprotective therapy of patients with tuberculosis and HIV infection in day unit of tuberculosis dispensary].
AB  - To improve the treatment of hepatotoxic responses to antituberculosis polychemotherapy, the impact of remaxol on the biochemical indices and parameters of the antioxidant system in patients with tuberculosis and HIV infection was estimated. The use of remaxol having cytoprotective, anticholestatic, antihypoxitic and antioxidant effects in the treatment of patients with tuberculosis and HIV infection and liver drug damage due to tuberculosis polychemotherapy significantly improved the biochemical indices and lowered the level of the cytolytic and cholestatic syndromes. Remaxol increased the antioxidant system potential and had an antihypoxitic effect.

UI  - 23339888
TI  - [Analysis of discordance between tuberculin test and QuantiFERON-TB Gold In-Tube in studies of contacts].
AB  - It seems that the QFT, alone or combined with the TST, is a safe method for the diagnosis of LTI and its use would contribute to a more specific selection of individuals who would need preventive treatment.

UI  - 23331510
TI  - Vitamin D accelerates clinical recovery from tuberculosis: results of the SUCCINCT Study [Supplementary Cholecalciferol in recovery from tuberculosis]. A randomized, placebo-controlled, clinical trial of vitamin D supplementation in patients with pulmonary tuberculosis'.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov; No. NCT01130311; URL: clinicaltrials.gov.

UI  - 23330601
TI  - Stevens-Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis in sub-Saharan Africa: a multicentric study in four countries.
AB  - This study has highlighted: (i) the high proportion of patients infected with HIV among patients who had SJS/TEN in sub-Saharan Africa; (ii) the high frequency of antiretroviral drugs as new SJS/TEN causes in sub-Saharan Africa; and (iii) the impact of HIV infection on morbidity and mortality of these affections.

UI  - 23324221
TI  - Impact of horizontal approach in vertical program: continuous quality improvement of malaria and tuberculosis diagnostic services at primary-level medical laboratories in the context of HIV care and treatment program in Ethiopia.
AB  - The use of standardized tools for continuous quality improvement of laboratory services is crucial to identify service gaps, plan targeted interventions, and prove successes. Laboratory quality improvement tools (LQITs) were developed and applied for 18 months at five health centers and one faith-based hospital laboratories in Southwest Showa Zone in Ethiopia to assess and monitor the quality of malaria and acid-fast bacilli (AFB) microscopy total testing processes. For the six laboratories, baseline malaria microscopy scores were 55%, 42%, 52%, 55%, 54%, and 61%. Similarly, baseline AFB microscopy scores were 49%, 41%, 46%, 58%, 44%, and 70%. On the sixth quarter for the first four laboratories and the fourth quarter for the last two laboratories, malaria microscopy scores were 89%, 88%, 88%, 90%, 88%, and 89%, whereas AFB microscopy scores were 90%, 88%, 89%, 95%, 88%, and 90%. All laboratories scored above 85% for both services at the end of interventions.

UI  - 23321507
TI  - Diagnostic value of FASH ultrasound and chest X-ray in HIV-co-infected patients with abdominal tuberculosis.
AB  - In human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) co-infected tuberculosis (TB) patients with negative acid-fast bacilli smears, chest radiography (CXR) is usually the first imaging step in the diagnostic work-up. Ultrasound, also in the form of focused assessment with sonography for TB-HIV (FASH), is an additional imaging modality used to diagnose extra-pulmonary TB (EPTB). Findings from 82 patients with abdominal TB diagnosed by ultrasound were analysed and compared with CXR results. Enlarged abdominal lymph nodes were seen in 75.6% of the patients, spleen abscesses in 41.2% and liver lesions in 30.6%. CXR showed a miliary pattern in 21.9% of the patients; 26.8% of the CXR had no radiological changes suggestive of pulmonary TB. This patient group would benefit from ultrasound in diagnostic algorithms for HIV-associated EPTB.

UI  - 23321394
TI  - Trends in the annual risk of tuberculous infection in India.
AB  - Although a decline in ARTI was observed in two of the four zones and at national level, the current ARTI of about 1% in three zones suggests that further intensification of TB control activities is required.

UI  - 23321297
TI  - Impact of the human immunodeficiency virus on early multidrug-resistant tuberculosis treatment outcomes in Botswana.
AB  - We found no difference in the proportion of or time to initial sputum culture conversion between an HIV-infected and a non-infected cohort of MDR-TB patients in Botswana, suggesting that outcomes may be comparable in similar settings with access to individualized anti-tuberculosis treatment and HAART.

UI  - 23317964
TI  - Direct and early detection of Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex and rifampicin resistance from sputum smears.
AB  - LiPA proved useful on DNA extracted from smear-positive slides. Appropriate treatment regimen could be decided early. Slide smear preparation could replace sputum transport in cetylpyridinium chloride, reducing biohazard and thereby controlling the transmission of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis in the community.

UI  - 23317962
TI  - Spoligotyping of multidrug-resistant Mycobacterium tuberculosis isolates in Ethiopia.
AB  - The observation of cluster formation of the spoligotype patterns of MDR-TB isolates could suggest transmission of MDR-TB strains among the population, thus warranting further attention.

UI  - 23317960
TI  - Tuberculous lymphadenopathy: a multicentre operational study of 6-month thrice weekly directly observed treatment.
AB  - The operational efficacy of 6-month thrice-weekly DOT for peripheral tubercular lymphadenopathy was satisfactory. There was no evidence of additional benefits of prolonging treatment to 9 months.

UI  - 23317958
TI  - Smoking and 2-month culture conversion during anti-tuberculosis treatment.
AB  - Cigarette smoking adversely affects culture conversion during anti-tuberculosis treatment. Support for smoking cessation should be considered to improve outcomes in TB control programs.

UI  - 23317955
TI  - Health care index score and risk of death following tuberculosis diagnosis in HIV-positive patients.
AB  - Our results suggest that DST, standard anti-tuberculosis treatment and early cART may improve outcome for TB-HIV patients. The proposed HCI score provides a tool for future research and monitoring of the management of TB-HIV patients. The highest HCI score may serve as a benchmark to assess TB-HIV management, encouraging continuous health care improvement.

UI  - 23317954
TI  - Safety and effectiveness of HAART in tuberculosis-HIV co-infected patients in Brazil.
AB  - HIV patients with TB have significantly better survival if they receive HAART during anti-tuberculosis treatment. Efavirenz-based HAART is associated with fewer AEs than protease inhibitor-based HAART.

UI  - 23317953
TI  - Completeness and concordance of TB and HIV surveillance systems for TB-HIV co-infected patients in South Africa.
AB  - Varying levels of completeness and concordance of surveillance data for TB-HIV co-infected patients highlight challenges in the current TB and HIV surveillance systems. Future integration of TB and HIV programs in this region will need to support more accurate data collection at all levels.

UI  - 23317952
TI  - Anti-tuberculosis treatment outcomes in HIV-infected adults exposed to isoniazid preventive therapy in Botswana.
AB  - With prompt initiation of anti-tuberculosis treatment and access to ART, excellent outcomes were achieved in a public health setting in HIV-infected adults who developed TB disease.

UI  - 23317950
TI  - Improving screening and chemoprophylaxis among child contacts in India's RNTCP: a pilot study.
AB  - In a programme setting, with HCW training and introduction of specific documentation (IPT card and register), implementation of contact tracing and chemoprophylaxis for child contacts improved from 19% to 61%.

UI  - 23308203
TI  - Feasibility of an ingestible sensor-based system for monitoring adherence to tuberculosis therapy.
AB  - Poor adherence to tuberculosis (TB) treatment hinders the individual's recovery and threatens public health. Currently, directly observed therapy (DOT) is the standard of care; however, high sustaining costs limit its availability, creating a need for more practical adherence confirmation methods. Techniques such as video monitoring and devices to time-register the opening of pill bottles are unable to confirm actual medication ingestions. A novel approach developed by Proteus Digital Health, Inc. consists of an ingestible sensor and an on-body wearable sensor; together, they electronically confirm unique ingestions and record the date/time of the ingestion. A feasibility study using an early prototype was conducted in active TB patients to determine the system's accuracy and safety in confirming co-ingestion of TB medications with sensors. Thirty patients completed 10 DOT visits and 1,080 co-ingestion events; the system showed 95.0% (95% CI 93.5-96.2%) positive detection accuracy, defined as the number of detected sensors divided by the number of transmission capable sensors administered. The specificity was 99.7% [95% CI 99.2-99.9%] based on three false signals recorded by receivers. The system's identification accuracy, defined as the number of correctly identified ingestible sensors divided by the number of sensors detected, was 100%. Of 11 adverse events, four were deemed related or possibly related to the device; three mild skin rashes and one complaint of nausea. The system's positive detection accuracy was not affected by the subjects' Body Mass Index (p=0.7309). Study results suggest the system is capable of correctly identifying ingestible sensors with high accuracy, poses a low risk to users, and may have high patient acceptance. The system has the potential to confirm medication specific treatment compliance on a dose-by-dose basis. When coupled with mobile technology, the system could allow wirelessly observed therapy (WOT) for monitoring TB treatment as a replacement for DOT.

UI  - 23289765
TI  - CD40 ligand and interferon- induce an antimicrobial response against Mycobacterium tuberculosis in human monocytes.
AB  - The ability of T cells to activate antimicrobial pathways in infected macrophages is essential to host defence against many intracellular pathogens. Here, we compared the ability of two T-cell-mediated mechanisms to trigger antimicrobial responses against Mycobacterium tuberculosis in humans, CD40 activation and the release of interferon- (IFN-). Given that IFN- activates a vitamin D-dependent antimicrobial response, we focused on induction of the key components of this pathway. We show that activation of human monocytes via CD40 ligand (CD40L) and IFN-, alone, and in combination, induces the CYP27b1-hydroxylase, responsible for the conversion of 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25D) to the bioactive 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D (1,25D), and the vitamin D receptor (VDR). The activation of the vitamin D pathway by CD40L and IFN- results in up-regulated expression of the antimicrobial peptides, cathelicidin and DEFB4, as well as induction of autophagy. Finally, activation of monocytes via CD40L and IFN- results in an antimicrobial activity against intracellular M.tuberculosis. Our data suggest that at least two parallel T-cell-mediated mechanisms, CD40L and IFN-, activate the vitamin D-dependent antimicrobial pathway and trigger antimicrobial activity against intracellular M.tuberculosis, thereby contributing to human host defence against intracellular infection.

UI  - 23280032
TI  - Blood born viral infections, sexually transmitted diseases and latent tuberculosis in italian prisons: a preliminary report of a large multicenter study.
AB  - The new approach to the screening, based on a peer-to-peer communication followed by blood sampling on a voluntary basis provided valuable information to improve the healthcare system in each single prison.

UI  - 23278775
TI  - Efficacy of the 6-month thrice-weekly regimen in the treatment of new sputum smear-positive pulmonary tuberculosis under clinical trial conditions.
AB  - This thrice-weekly 6-month regimen of antitubercular drugs, when administered under full supervision, is associated with a high rate of favourable treatment outcomes in HIV-negative patients with newly diagnosed sputum smearpositive pulmonary tuberculosis. There are few adverse drug reactions in these patients.

UI  - 24975354
TI  - Management of paediatric tuberculosis in provincial and district hospitals in Afghanistan.
AB  - Case detection, diagnosis and treatment of tuberculosis 1 B) in children are challenging issues vorldwide. This study in Afghanistan aimed to evaluate paediatric TB case management, including contact investigation, at health facilities where all diagnostic processes were available. In 7 out of 8 regions of the country 1 province was selected. Documents used for management of paediatric TB cases were reviewed in 15 distinct hospitals and 8 provincial hospitals in the selected provinces. The key issues which emerged were: a low suspect rate among total outpatients (0.4%) and a very low suspect rate among children aged < 5 years; low performance of suspect management (68.5% suspects received further examinations); low utilization of other diagnostic methods; a high early defaulter rate (14.0%); and insufficient coverage of contact management (74.0%). This survey indicated that the Afghanistan national TB programme needs to develop plans to improve the quality of diagnosis, suspect management and contact management in paediatric TB cases.

UI  - 24640150
TI  - [Reamberin in tuberculosis chemotherapy and its effect on liver function].
AB  - The use of reamberin for prophylaxis of side effects was estimated in 257 patients with tuberculosis of the respiratory organs under the chemotherapy. The reference group involved 241 patients treated with the chemotherapeutics alone. Reamberin in the treatment of the patients, including subjects with multidrug resistant Mycobacterium tuberculosis, promoted a 2-fold decrease in the frequency of the intoxication syndrome during the first month of the treatment. Adverse reactions (toxic, allergic) to the antituberculosis chemotherapeuties were 2.4 times less frequent in the patients additionally treated with reamberin. Positive effect of reamberin on the activity of AIAT and AsAT was observed, the effect being higher, when the pathogen was susceptible to the drugs.

UI  - 24640140
TI  - [Comparative efficacy of clinical use of reamberin, remaxol and ademethionine in patients with tuberculosis of the respiratory organs and liver drug-injury].
AB  - The efficacy ofreamberin, remaxol, S-adenosyl-L-methionine (ademethionine) and 5% glucose solution was estimated in the treatment of patients with tuberculosis of the respiratory organs and drug hepatotoxicity signs confirmed by higher activity of liver indicative enzymes and nitrogen oxide levels. Remaxol showed a pronounced positive effect on the cytolytic syndrome signs, evident from lower activity of alanine aminotransferase and aspartate aminotransferase. At the same time ademethionine was superior to remaxol in the effect on the cholestatic signs and inferior in the effect on the cytolytic signs. By the effect on the activity of alanine aminotransferase and aspartate aminotransferase, reamberin was inferior to remaxol and superior to ademe-thionine, its effect on the cholestasis markers level vs. the other drugs being superior only to that of 5% glucose solution. As compared to reamberin, ademethionine and 5% glucose solution, remaxol promoted higher integral indices of the host antioxidant protection (total antioxidant capacity and total antioxidant status), that partially explained the drug pronounced hepatoprotective effect.

UI  - 23272097
TI  - Capacity-building and clinical competence in infectious disease in Uganda: a mixed-design study with pre/post and cluster-randomized trial components.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT01190540.

UI  - 23251327
TI  - Efficacy of a six-month versus a 36-month regimen for prevention of tuberculosis in HIV-infected persons in India: a randomized clinical trial.
AB  - Both regimens were similarly effective in preventing TB, when compared to historical incidence rates. However, there was a trend to lower TB incidence with 36H. There was no increase in isoniazid resistance compared to the expected rate in HIV-infected patients. The trial is registered at ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT00351702.

UI  - 23243724
TI  - [Prevalence and characteristics of the "burnout syndrome" of the medical staff of cancer and TB institutions of Primorski Kra].
AB  - As 50 doctors and 70 nurses in oncologic dispensaries as well 90 doctors and 110 nurses in tuberculosis dispensaries in Primorye have been studied on the basis of voluntary testing methods supposed by C. Maslach and V.V. Boiko. The aim of this study was to estimate the relative prevalence and psychological features of the "burnout syndrome" among doctors and nurses of oncologic and tuberculosis dispensaries in Primorye Territory. "Emotional burnout" in various stages of its development is much more common among nurses (75% of respondents), compared with physicians (less than 50% tested). In nursing professional burnout syndrome developed significantly more frequently in the more severe form, and with less seniority of professional activity. The dependence of burning on the age and professional experience is more common for physicians. There is an urgent need to study the epidemiology of the "burnout syndrome" and identify ways to prevent the formation of social syndrome in medical personnel.

UI  - 23234495
TI  - Fine-needle aspiration for diagnosis of tuberculous lymphadenitis in children in Bangui, Central African Republic.
AB  - Fine-needle aspiration is simple, cost-effective and non-invasive and can be performed by trained staff. Combined with rapid molecular diagnostic tests, fine-needle aspirates could improve the diagnosis of TB and provide valuable information for appropriate treatment and drug resistance.

UI  - 23232010
TI  - Multicentre evaluation of Ziehl-Neelsen and light-emitting diode fluorescence microscopy in China.
AB  - LED-FM compared favourably with ZN, with a higher smear-positive detection rate, a shorter examination time and lower unit examination cost. LED-FM may be an alternative to ZN as a cost-effective method for detecting bacilli in peripheral laboratories in China.

UI  - 23232006
TI  - Clinical characteristics of patients with tuberculosis-destroyed lung.
AB  - Decreased lung function with exacerbation, and progressive decline of FEV(1) were observed in patients with TB-destroyed lung.

UI  - 23232002
TI  - Loss to follow-up among infants in a study of isoniazid prophylaxis (P1041) in South Africa.
AB  - Household support was an important factor in participant retention, particularly for the non-HIV-infected cohort, as young maternal age was a risk factor for LFU. Retaining study participants from this mobile population can be challenging and may warrant additional support.

UI  - 23228479
TI  - Spectrum of non-tuberculous mycobacteria identified using standard biochemical testing vs. 16S sequencing.
AB  - Non-tuberculous mycobacterial isolates from gold miners were speciated using standard biochemical testing (SBT) and 16S rDNA sequencing. Of 237 isolates tested, SBT identified 126, compared with all 237 identified using sequencing. Of 111 isolates unspeciated by SBT but identified by sequencing, 38 (34.2%) were identified as Mycobacterium gordonae and 8 (7.2%) were new species. Of 126 isolates speciated by both methods, 37 were discordant, with 14/17 M. gordonae isolates incorrectly identified as M. scrofulaceum using SBT. The majority of these were the potentially pathogenic strain D, M. gordonae. Sequencing is preferable where available to guide treatment.

UI  - 23220919
TI  - Interferon- ELISPOT as a biomarker of treatment efficacy in latent tuberculosis infection: a clinical trial.
AB  - In contacts with LTBI, INH therapy plays no role in observed decreases in Mycobacterium tuberculosis antigen-specific T-cell responses over time. IFN- ELISPOT is probably not a useful biomarker of treatment efficacy in LTBI. Clinical trial registered with www.clinicaltrials.gov (NCT 00130325).

UI  - 23219236
TI  - The candidate tuberculosis vaccine Mtb72F/AS02 in PPD positive adults: a randomized controlled phase I/II study.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT00146744.

UI  - 23209409
TI  - Relatively low level of antigen-specific monocytes detected in blood from untreated tuberculosis patients using CD4+ T-cell receptor tetramers.
AB  - The in vivo kinetics of antigen-presenting cells (APCs) in patients with advanced and convalescent tuberculosis (TB) is not well characterized. In order to target Mycobacterium tuberculosis (MTB) peptides- and HLA-DR-holding monocytes and macrophages, 2 MTB peptide-specific CD4(+) T-cell receptor (TCR) tetramers eu and hu were successfully constructed. Peripheral blood (PBL) samples from inpatients with advanced pulmonary TB (PTB) were analyzed using flow cytometry, and the percentages of tetramer-bound CD14(+) monocytes ranged from 0.26-1.44% and 0.21-0.95%, respectively; significantly higher than those measured in PBL samples obtained from non-TB patients, healthy donors, and umbilical cords. These tetramers were also able to specifically detect macrophages in situ via immunofluorescent staining. The results of the continuous time-point tracking of the tetramer-positive rates in PBL samples from active PTB outpatients undergoing treatment show that the median percentages were at first low before treatment, increased to their highest levels during the first month, and then began to decrease during the second month until finally reaching and maintaining a relatively low level after 3-6 months. These results suggest that there is a relatively low level of MTB-specific monocytes in advanced and untreated patients. Further experiments show that MTB induces apoptosis in CD14(+) cells, and the percentage of apoptotic monocytes dramatically decreases after treatment. Therefore, the relatively low level of MTB-specific monocytes is probably related to the apoptosis or necrosis of APCs due to live bacteria and their growth. The bactericidal effects of anti-TB drugs, as well as other unknown factors, would induce a peak value during the first month of treatment, and a relatively low level would be subsequently reached and maintained until all of the involved factors reached equilibrium. These tetramers have diagnostic potential and can provide valuable insights into the mechanisms of antigen presentation and its relationship with TB infection and latent TB infection.

UI  - 23200579
TI  - [Recent latent tuberculous infection (LTBI) in different sub-groups of contacts].
AB  - Screening for latent tuberculous infection (LTBI) in contacts of identified cases of tuberculosis should be based on intention to treat. We know that only LTBI that is attributable to a recent transmission requires preventive treatment in immunocompetent adults. There is no current test that allows accurate dating of LTBI. The objective of this retrospective study with QuantiFERON-TB-Gold In-Tube (QFT) is to estimate the probability of recent LTBI in various groups of contacts. Among 2424 subjects included, 407 (17%) tests were positive; 129 (28%) within the family circle, 69 (19%) within the social environment, 153 (14%) among professional acquaintances and 56 (10%) within the school environment (respectively: OR=0.69 and P=0.04; OR=0.49 and P<0.001; OR=0.51 and P<0.001). After comparison with a basal rate of LTBI, professional and family contacts less than 40 years old, born in a country of incidence lower than 20, had a rate of recent LTBI between 15 and 40% and between 68 and 80%, respectively. For those born in a country of incidence greater than 20, we estimate the rate of recent LTBI between 6 and 18% for professional contacts and between 43 and 50% for family contacts. These results, although approximate and specific to Paris, are important for the clinician who has to decide on preventive treatment and for the public health specialist who has to identify groups of contacts. Finally, to limit the differences in rates of recent LTBI, it would probably be necessary to specify thresholds of accumulated contact time, according to the type of contact, before considering an individual as a contact.

UI  - 23183433
TI  - A time-to-event pharmacodynamic model describing treatment response in patients with pulmonary tuberculosis using days to positivity in automated liquid mycobacterial culture.
AB  - Days to positivity in automated liquid mycobacterial culture have been shown to correlate with mycobacterial load and have been proposed as a useful biomarker for treatment responses in tuberculosis. However, there is currently no quantitative method or model to analyze the change in days to positivity with time on treatment. The objectives of this study were to describe the decline in numbers of mycobacteria in sputum collected once weekly for 8 weeks from patients on treatment for tuberculosis using days to positivity in liquid culture. One hundred forty-four patients with smear-positive pulmonary tuberculosis were recruited from a tuberculosis clinic in Cape Town, South Africa. A nonlinear mixed-effects repeated-time-to-event modeling approach was used to analyze the time-to-positivity data. A biexponential model described the decline in the estimated number of bacteria in patients' sputum samples, while a logistic model with a lag time described the growth of the bacteria in liquid culture. At baseline, the estimated number of rapidly killed bacteria is typically 41 times higher than that of those that are killed slowly. The time to kill half of the rapidly killed bacteria was about 1.8 days, while it was 39 days for slowly killed bacteria. Patients with lung cavitation had higher bacterial loads than patients without lung cavitation. The model successfully described the increase in days to positivity as treatment progressed, differentiating between bacteria that are killed rapidly and those that are killed slowly. Our model can be used to analyze similar data from studies testing new drug regimens.

UI  - 23171059
TI  - Inequalities in HIV disease management and progression in migrants from Latin America and sub-Saharan Africa living in Spain.
AB  - Migrants experience a disproportionate diagnostic delay, but no meaningful inequalities were identified regarding initiation of treatment after diagnosis. A poorer virological and immunological response was observed in SSA. Migrants had an increased risk of AIDS, which was mainly attributable to tuberculosis.

UI  - 23168172
TI  - The effect of at-birth vitamin A supplementation on differential leucocyte counts and in vitro cytokine production: an immunological study nested within a randomised trial in Guinea-Bissau.
AB  - Vitamin A supplementation (VAS) at birth was not associated with improved survival in a randomised, placebo-controlled trial in Guinea-Bissau. However, a negative sex-differential effect, which became evident after diphtheria-tetanus-pertussis (DTP) vaccination, was noted; among girls who had received DTP, VAS at birth was associated with two-fold higher mortality than placebo. The objective of the present study was to investigate the immunological effects of VAS at birth within a subgroup of participants in the randomised trial. Guided by the mortality results, we further explored whether VAS had a differential effect according to sex and DTP status. At 6 weeks after randomisation and supplementation, we measured differential leucocyte counts and TNF-, interferon-, IL-10, IL-13 and IL-5 production in a whole-blood culture assay. A total of 471 children were included. VAS compared with placebo at birth was associated with a higher proportion of monocytes (relative risk ratio 126, 95 % CI 107, 149, P=004), while spontaneous TNF- production was lower in the VAS group (geometric mean ratio 054, 95 % CI, 037, 078, P=0001). Stratified analysis showed that VAS was associated with lower TNF- and IL-10 production for girls without DTP and boys with DTP, resulting in significant three-way interactions between VAS, sex and DTP vaccination status (P=003 and P=004, respectively) for spontaneous TNF- and IL-10 production. The results substantiate the potential role of VAS as an immunomodulatory intervention, which has different effects depending on concomitant health interventions and the sex of the recipient.

UI  - 23167603
TI  - Population pharmacokinetics of rifampicin in Mexican patients with tuberculosis.
AB  - Gender was associated with changes in CL/F and V(d) /F whereas the pharmaceutical formulation was associated with changes in F and altered the K(a) . The validation data set showed that the model could be used in clinical practice for Bayesian dose adjustment of RIF in TB patients.

UI  - 23161902
TI  - Clinical efficacy, radiographic and safety findings through 2 years of golimumab treatment in patients with active psoriatic arthritis: results from a long-term extension of the randomised, placebo-controlled GO-REVEAL study.
AB  - Golimumab 50 and 100 mg for up to 2 years yielded sustained clinical and radiographic efficacy when administered to patients with active PsA. Increasing the golimumab dose from 50 to 100 mg q4wks added limited benefit. Golimumab safety through up to 2 years was consistent with other antitumour necrosis factor  agents used to treat PsA. Treatment of patients with latent tuberculosis identified at baseline appeared to be effective in inhibiting the development of active tuberculosis.

UI  - 23150149
TI  - NAT2 genotype guided regimen reduces isoniazid-induced liver injury and early treatment failure in the 6-month four-drug standard treatment of tuberculosis: a randomized controlled trial for pharmacogenetics-based therapy.
AB  - Our results clearly indicate a great potential of the NAT2 genotype-guided dosing stratification of isoniazid in chemotherapy for tuberculosis.

UI  - 23146410
TI  - Safety of long-term isoniazid preventive therapy in children with HIV: a comparison of two dosing schedules.
AB  - This study suggests that long-term IPT has a low toxicity risk in HIV-infected children. In the absence of chronic viral hepatitis, IPT can be safely re-introduced following recovery from liver injury.

UI  - 23144609
TI  - Tim-3-expressing CD4+ and CD8+ T cells in human tuberculosis (TB) exhibit polarized effector memory phenotypes and stronger anti-TB effector functions.
AB  - T-cell immune responses modulated by T-cell immunoglobulin and mucin domain-containing molecule 3 (Tim-3) during Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) infection in humans remain poorly understood. Here, we found that active TB patients exhibited increases in numbers of Tim-3-expressing CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells, which preferentially displayed polarized effector memory phenotypes. Consistent with effector phenotypes, Tim-3(+)CD4(+) and Tim-3(+)CD8(+) T-cell subsets showed greater effector functions for producing Th1/Th22 cytokines and CTL effector molecules than Tim-3(-) counterparts, and Tim-3-expressing T cells more apparently limited intracellular Mtb replication in macrophages. The increased effector functions for Tim-3-expressing T cells consisted with cellular activation signaling as Tim-3(+)CD4(+) and Tim-3(+)CD8(+) T-cell subsets expressed much higher levels of phosphorylated signaling molecules p38, stat3, stat5, and Erk1/2 than Tim-3- controls. Mechanistic experiments showed that siRNA silencing of Tim-3 or soluble Tim-3 treatment interfering with membrane Tim-3-ligand interaction reduced de novo production of IFN- and TNF- by Tim-3-expressing T cells. Furthermore, stimulation of Tim-3 signaling pathways by antibody cross-linking of membrane Tim-3 augmented effector function of IFN- production by CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells, suggesting that Tim-3 signaling helped to drive stronger effector functions in active TB patients. This study therefore uncovered a previously unknown mechanism for T-cell immune responses regulated by Tim-3, and findings may have implications for potential immune intervention in TB.

UI  - 23141871
TI  - Performance of Quantiferon() for the diagnosis TB.
AB  - The performance of QFN was weak in this context, especially in subgroups at high risk for latent TB. However, combined negative results of QFN or TST and culture could be useful to rule out active TB.

UI  - 23131262
TI  - Tuberculosis in the workplace: developing partnerships with the garment industries in Bangladesh.
AB  - It is feasible to engage factories in TB control activities in Bangladesh, and thereby increase case notifications and improve treatment outcomes.

UI  - 23131257
TI  - Implementation of tuberculosis infection control measures at HIV care and treatment sites in sub-Saharan Africa.
AB  - To protect HIV-infected patients and health care workers, there is an urgent need to scale up IC practices at HIV care and treatment sites, particularly at sites without anti-tuberculosis treatment services.

UI  - 23131255
TI  - Lessons from a randomised clinical trial for multidrug-resistant tuberculosis.
AB  - Recruitment and retention in this MDR-TB clinical trial posed substantial challenges, suggesting the need for a large, multidisciplinary group of study staff to support the participants. Withdrawal tended to occur early in study treatment. The discrepancy in assigned study medication reflects the need for stronger administrative controls for study drugs.

UI  - 23130467
TI  - Adverse drug reactions and outcome of short course anti-tuberculosis drugs between single daily dose and split drug dose (BID) in pulmonary tuberculosis.
AB  - Split drug regimen has the same cure rate of treatment as single daily regimen and same adverse drug reactions.

UI  - 23127245
TI  - Decreased activities of daily living is a strong risk factor for liver injury by anti-tuberculosis drugs.
AB  - Decreased activity of daily living is a strong risk factor for liver injury among adult inpatients with newly diagnosed smear-positive lung tuberculosis treated using a standard regimen.

UI  - 23103177
TI  - Intensified regimen containing rifampicin and moxifloxacin for tuberculous meningitis: an open-label, randomised controlled phase 2 trial.
AB  - Royal Dutch Academy of Arts and Sciences, Netherlands Foundation for Scientific Research, and Padjadjaran University, Bandung, Indonesia.

UI  - 23082557
TI  - Influence of ABCB-1 C3435T polymorphisms on plasma nevirapine and efavirenz levels and their effects on virologic and immunological outcomes in HIV/TB co-infected Thai adults under anti-retroviral therapy.
AB  - ATP-binding cassette, sub-family B (encoded by ABCB-1 or MDR-1) has an important role in cellular export of antiretroviral agents. A previous study showed that ABCB-1 C3435T polymorphism affects plasma efavirenz and nelfinavir concentrations and rate of CD4+ T cell recovery after starting antiretroviral treatment (ART). The present study examined the influence of ABCB-1 polymorphisms on plasma nevirapine and efavirenz levels when co-administered with rifampicin in 124 HIV/TB patients who received nevirapine- (400 mg/day) (n = 59) and efavirenz- (600 mg/day) (n = 65) based ART. ABCB-1 C3435T polymorphisms were genotyped using real-time PCR. CD4 T cell counts and HIV-1 viral RNA were evaluated in response to ART. The frequencies of CC, CT and TT genotypes of ABCB-1 C3435T polymorphism were 34% (n = 42), 55% (n = 68) and 12% (n = 14), respectively. Contrary to the previous report, no association was found among these genotypes and plasma drug concentrations at weeks 6 and 12 of ART and after rifampicin discontinuation. We also observed no differences in CD4+ T cell recovery rate among different ABCB-1 C3435T genotypes. In nevirapine group, however, all the patients with CT genotype achieved HIV-1 RNA levels of < 50 copies/ml, while 67% of those with TT and 95% with CC genotypes achieved < 50 copies/ml (p = 0.040). These data suggested that ABCB-1 C3435T polymorphisms do not affect plasma nevirapine and efavirenz concentrations in HIV/TB co-infected Thai patients or their immunological outcome, but had an effect on virologic outcome in the nevirapine-treated group.

UI  - 23077937
TI  - [Relation between clinical-biological aspects and CD4 lymphocyte count in HIV/AIDS patients with non-tuberculous bronchopulmonary infection].
AB  - Non-tuberculous bronchopulmonary infectious diseases accounted for a small percentage (13.5%) of the respiratory diseases in HIV/AIDS patients; most infections were found in patients with a CD4 lymphocyte count exceeding 300/mmc; of the clinical forms, acute tracheobronchitis and interstitial pneumonia were the most common; etiological treatment and favorable clinical-biological course were similar to immunocompetent hosts; pneumococci involved in the etiology of bacterial pneumonia in HIV/AIDS patients preserve the same sensitivity as in the seronegative patients.

UI  - 23077714
TI  - Factors associated with late presentation of suspected tuberculosis cases to tuberculosis management facilities: The case in Dagoretti district, Nairobi, Kenya.
AB  - This study shows that age, level of education and place of first medical care are the factors associated with late presentation of suspects to tuberculosis management facilities.

UI  - 23075177
TI  - Linezolid for treatment of chronic extensively drug-resistant tuberculosis.
AB  - Linezolid is effective at achieving culture conversion among patients with treatment-refractory XDR pulmonary tuberculosis, but patients must be monitored carefully for adverse events. (Funded by the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases and the Ministry of Health and Welfare, South Korea; ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00727844.).

UI  - 23053764
TI  - Ultra-short-course chemotherapy for spinal tuberculosis: five years of observation.
AB  - With thorough focus debridement, bone grafting, and internal fixation, the efficacy of ultra-short chemotherapy was similar to that of standard chemotherapy for the treatment of spinal tuberculosis. The ultra-short-course chemotherapy can shorten the course of treatment and reduce drug side effects.

UI  - 23053426
TI  - A prospective analysis of the incidence of and risk factors for opportunistic infections in patients with inflammatory bowel disease.
AB  - Age 50 years and the use of immunosuppressants are risk factors for opportunistic infections in patients with IBD. In our cohort, tuberculosis was not seen as a complication of immunosuppressant therapy.

UI  - 23044446
TI  - Outcomes of Category III DOTS treatment in immunocompetent patients with tuberculosis pleural effusion.
AB  - Intermittent thrice-weekly treatment for 6 months with three drugs in the intensive phase is effective and safe for unilateral small pleural effusion in immunocompetent patients. Although Category III no longer exists in the programme, the results are reassuring for intermittent treatment in extra-pulmonary TB under programme conditions.

UI  - 23043067
TI  - Efavirenz, tenofovir and emtricitabine combined with first-line tuberculosis treatment in tuberculosis-HIV-coinfected Tanzanian patients: a pharmacokinetic and safety study.
AB  - Coadministration of efavirenz, tenofovir and emtricitabine with a standard first-line TB treatment regimen did not significantly alter the pharmacokinetic parameters of these drugs and was tolerated well by Tanzanian TB patients who are coinfected with HIV.

UI  - 23032215
TI  - Linezolid-containing regimens for the treatment of drug-resistant tuberculosis in South African children.
AB  - Linezolid-containing regimens can be effective in treating children with DR-TB even after failing second-line treatment. Adverse events should be monitored, especially in combination with medications that have similar adverse effects. Linezolid remains costly, and a reduced dosage and duration may result in fewer adverse events and lower cost.

UI  - 23029377
TI  - Potential role of M. tuberculosis specific IFN- and IL-2 ELISPOT assays in discriminating children with active or latent tuberculosis.
AB  - Our data suggest that IL-2 based ELISPOT with AlaDH antigen may be of help in discriminating children with active from those with latent TB.

UI  - 23018916
TI  - Delamanid improves outcomes and reduces mortality in multidrug-resistant tuberculosis.
AB  - Multidrug-resistant and extensively drug-resistant tuberculosis (TB) are associated with worse treatment outcomes for patients, including higher mortality, than for drug-sensitive tuberculosis. Delamanid (OPC-67683) is a novel anti-TB medication with demonstrated activity against multidrug-resistant disease. Patients who participated in the previously reported randomised, placebo-controlled trial of delamanid and the subsequent open-label extension trial were eligible to participate in a 24-month observational study designed to capture treatment outcomes. Treatment outcomes, as assessed by clinicians and defined by the World Health Organization, were categorised as favourable and unfavourable. Delamanid treatment groups were combined for analysis, based on their duration of treatment. In total, for 421 (87.5%) out of 481 patients from the original randomised controlled trial, consent was granted for follow-up assessments. Favourable outcomes were observed in 143 (74.5%) out of 192 patients who received delamanid for 6 months, compared to 126 (55%) out of 229 patients who received delamanid for 2 months. Mortality was reduced to 1.0% among those receiving long-term delamanid versus short-term/no delamanid (8.3%; p<0.001). Treatment benefit was also seen among patients with extensively drug-resistant TB. This analysis suggests that treatment with delamanid for 6 months in combination with an optimised background regimen can improve outcomes and reduce mortality among patients with both multidrug-resistant and extensively drug-resistant TB.

UI  - 22999589
TI  - Application of bronchoscopic argon plasma coagulation in the treatment of tumorous endobronchial tuberculosis: historical controlled trial.
AB  - Bronchoscopic argon plasma coagulation can accelerate the healing of tumorous endobronchial tuberculosis and can help prevent progressive bronchial stenosis resulting from tumorous endobronchial tuberculosis, and it is a very safe method.

UI  - 22997218
TI  - Efficacy and safety of meropenem-clavulanate added to linezolid-containing regimens in the treatment of MDR-/XDR-TB.
AB  - Clinical experience on meropenem-clavulanate to treat tuberculosis (TB) is anecdotal (according to case reports on 10 patients). The aim of our case-control study was to evaluate the contribution of meropenem-clavulanate when added to linezolid-containing regimens in terms of efficacy and safety/tolerability in treating multidrug-resistant (MDR) and extensively drug-resistant (XDR) TB cases after 3 months of second-line treatment. 37 cases with MDR-/XDR-TB were prescribed meropenem-clavulanate (3 g daily dose) in addition to a linezolid-containing regimen (dosage range 300-1200 mgday(-1)), designed according to international guidelines, which was prescribed to 61 controls. The clinical severity of cases was worse than that of controls (drug susceptibility profile, proportion of sputum-smear positive and of re-treatment cases). The group of cases yielded a higher proportion of sputum-smear converters (28 (87.5%) out of 32 versus nine (56.3%) out of 16; p=0.02) and culture converters (31 (83.8%) out of 37 versus 15 (62.5%) out of 24; p=0.06). Excluding XDR-TB patients (11 (11.2%) out of 98), cases scored a significantly higher proportion of culture converters than controls (p=0.03). One case had to withdraw from meropenem-clavulanate due to increased transaminase levels. The results of our study provide: 1) preliminary evidence on effectiveness and safety/tolerability of meropenem-clavulanate; 2) reference to design further trials; and 3) a guide to clinicians for its rationale use within salvage/compassionate regimens.

UI  - 22973852
TI  - Treatment of opportunistic infections prior to HAART initiation does not affect immune reconstitution in HIV-infected patients.
AB  - In patients receiving highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART), increase of naive T-cell production, as measured by T-cell receptor rearrangement excision circles (TRECs), is an indicator of immune reconstitution. Our objective was to assess whether treating opportunistic infections (OIs) prior to HAART initiation affects CD4 T-cells recovery and TRECs in patients on HAART. HIV-infected patients presenting no OIs or treated OIs were prospectively enrolled prior to HAART initiation and followed-up over 12 months of HAART. CD4 T-cells and TRECs were measured at baseline, 6 and 12 months HAART and compared between patients presenting no OIs and those with treated OIs. Univariate and multivariate logistic regression models were used to identify potential factors associated with low TREC increase after 12 months HAART. Forty-four HIV-infected patients, 31 presenting no OIs and 13 with treated OIs at HAART initiation were enrolled. Patients presenting no OIs tended to have higher CD4 T-cell gain than those with treated OIs (151 vs 89 cells/L; p = 0.05) after 6 months HAART but not after 12 months HAART (120 vs 149 cells/L; p = 0.84). Among patients presenting no OIs, TREC levels significantly increased from baseline through 12 months HAART while among those with treated OIs, there was a trend for increase only after 12 months. Our study indicates that treatment of OIs prior to HAART does not lead to impaired CD4 T-cells recovery and thymic outputs.

UI  - 22949664
TI  - Vitamin D accelerates resolution of inflammatory responses during tuberculosis treatment.
AB  - Calcidiol, the major circulating metabolite of vitamin D, supports induction of pleiotropic antimicrobial responses in vitro. Vitamin D supplementation elevates circulating calcidiol concentrations, and thus has a potential role in the prevention and treatment of infection. The immunomodulatory effects of administering vitamin D to humans with an infectious disease have not previously been reported. To characterize these effects, we conducted a detailed longitudinal study of circulating and antigen-stimulated immune responses in ninety-five patients receiving antimicrobial therapy for pulmonary tuberculosis who were randomized to receive adjunctive high-dose vitamin D or placebo in a clinical trial, and who fulfilled criteria for per-protocol analysis. Vitamin D supplementation accelerated sputum smear conversion and enhanced treatment-induced resolution of lymphopaenia, monocytosis, hypercytokinaemia, and hyperchemokinaemia. Administration of vitamin D also suppressed antigen-stimulated proinflammatory cytokine responses, but attenuated the suppressive effect of antimicrobial therapy on antigen-stimulated secretion of IL-4, CC chemokine ligand 5, and IFN-. We demonstrate a previously unappreciated role for vitamin D supplementation in accelerating resolution of inflammatory responses during tuberculosis treatment. Our findings suggest a potential role for adjunctive vitamin D supplementation in the treatment of pulmonary infections to accelerate resolution of inflammatory responses associated with increased risk of mortality.

UI  - 22944873
TI  - The immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome after antiretroviral therapy initiation in patients with tuberculosis: findings from the SAPiT trial.
AB  - Comprehensive International Program of Research on AIDS.

UI  - 22938757
TI  - Prevalence of and risk factors for resistance to second-line drugs in people with multidrug-resistant tuberculosis in eight countries: a prospective cohort study.
AB  - US Agency for International Development, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Institutes of Health/National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, and Korean Ministry of Health and Welfare.

UI  - 22938040
TI  - A predictive scoring instrument for tuberculosis lost to follow-up outcome.
AB  - This model has a good capacity to predict a lost to follow-up outcome. Its use could help TB Programs to determine which patients are good candidates for DOT and other strategies to improve TB treatment adherence.

UI  - 22937088
TI  - A toolbox for tuberculosis diagnosis: an Indian multicentric study (2006-2008): microbiological results.
AB  - Conventional microbiological tools led to results similar to those already described in India special features for HIV-infected TB patients included lower detection by SM and culture. New microbiological assays, such as the automated liquid culture system, showed increased accuracy and speed of detection.

UI  - 22911011
TI  - Antiretroviral therapy for prevention of tuberculosis in adults with HIV: a systematic review and meta-analysis.
AB  - International Prospective Register of Systematic Reviews CRD42011001209 Please see later in the article for the Editors' Summary.

UI  - 22870206
TI  - Conserved immune recognition hierarchy of mycobacterial PE/PPE proteins during infection in natural hosts.
AB  - The Mycobacterium tuberculosis genome contains two large gene families encoding proteins of unknown function, characterized by conserved N-terminal proline and glutamate (PE and PPE) motifs. The presence of a large number of PE/PPE proteins with repetitive domains and evidence of strain variation has given rise to the suggestion that these proteins may play a role in immune evasion via antigenic variation, while emerging data suggests that some family members may play important roles in mycobacterial pathogenesis. In this study, we examined cellular immune responses to a panel of 36 PE/PPE proteins during human and bovine infection. We observed a distinct hierarchy of immune recognition, reflected both in the repertoire of PE/PPE peptide recognition in individual cows and humans and in the magnitude of IFN- responses elicited by stimulation of sensitized host cells. The pattern of immunodominance was strikingly similar between cattle that had been experimentally infected with Mycobacterium bovis and humans naturally infected with clinical isolates of M. tuberculosis. The same pattern was maintained as disease progressed throughout a four-month course of infection in cattle, and between humans with latent as well as active tuberculosis. Detailed analysis of PE/PPE responses at the peptide level suggests that antigenic cross-reactivity amongst related family members is a major determinant in the observed differences in immune hierarchy. Taken together, these results demonstrate that a subset of PE/PPE proteins are major targets of the cellular immune response to tuberculosis, and are recognized at multiple stages of infection and in different disease states. Thus this work identifies a number of novel antigens that could find application in vaccine development, and provides new insights into PE/PPE biology.

UI  - 22863872
TI  - Rapid molecular detection of pulmonary tuberculosis in HIV-infected patients in Santiago, Chile.
AB  - Xpert MTB/RIF provided earlier TB diagnosis in 25% more cases than acid-fast smear alone. Its implementation should be considered for TB diagnosis in HIV-positive patients even outside TB-endemic areas.

UI  - 22863560
TI  - Serum CA-125: biomarker of pulmonary tuberculosis activity and evaluation of response to treatment.
AB  - Our findings suggest that CA-125 can be a beneficial parameter in determination of pulmonary tuberculosis activity and the evaluation of response to treatment.

UI  - 22863522
TI  - Screening outcomes from patients with suspected multidrug-resistant tuberculosis: lessons learned in the Philippines.
AB  - Resistance to INH+RMP is the most frequent resistance pattern among patients referred from DOTS clinics in the Philippines for suspected MDR-TB. Initial use of standard regimens based on national survey data and quick uptake of new rapid molecular resistance tests may be useful to reduce diagnostic delays and expedite treatment for drug-resistant TB.

UI  - 22863208
TI  - Tuberculosis caused by RDRio Mycobacterium tuberculosis is not associated with differential clinical features.
AB  - Disease caused by M. tuberculosis RD(Rio) strains was not clinically distinctive or more severe than disease caused by non-RD(Rio) strains in this series of TB patients. Larger prospective studies specifically designed to disclose differential clinical characteristics of TB caused by specific M. tuberculosis lineages are needed.

UI  - 22853755
TI  - Adjunct immune therapy of first-diagnosed TB, relapsed TB, treatment-failed TB, multidrug-resistant TB and TB/HIV.
AB  - V5 is safe and effective as an immune adjunct to chemotherapy for TB and can potentially reduce the treatment duration down to 1 month.

UI  - 22850121
TI  - Substitution of rifapentine for rifampin during intensive phase treatment of pulmonary tuberculosis: study 29 of the tuberculosis trials consortium.
AB  - NCT00694629.

UI  - 22848473
TI  - Prevalence of diabetes and pre-diabetes and associated risk factors among tuberculosis patients in India.
AB  - Nearly 50% of TB patients had either diabetes or pre-diabetes.

UI  - 22848401
TI  - Evaluation of the burden of unsuspected pulmonary tuberculosis and co-morbidity with non-communicable diseases in sputum producing adult inpatients.
AB  - A large burden of unsuspected pulmonary TB co-morbidity exists in inpatients with NCDs and other CDs. Pro-active sputum screening of all inpatients in tertiary referral centres in high TB endemic countries is recommended. The scale of the problem of undiagnosed MDR-TB in inpatients requires further study.

UI  - 22837491
TI  - -defensin genomic copy number is associated with HIV load and immune reconstitution in sub-saharan Africans.
AB  - AIDS, caused by the retrovirus human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), is the leading cause of death of economically active people (age, 15-59 years) in sub-Saharan Africa. The host genetic variability of immune response to HIV and immune reconstitution following initiation of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) is poorly understood. Here we focused on copy number variation of the -defensin genes, which have been shown to have anti-HIV activity, and are important chemoattractants for Th17 lymphocytes via the chemokine receptor CCR6. We determined -defensin gene copy number for 1002 Ethiopian and Tanzanian patients. We show that higher -defensin copy number variation is associated with increased HIV load prior to HAART (P=.005) and poor immune reconstitution following initiation of HAART (P=.003). We suggest a model where variable amounts of -defensin expression by mucosal cells, due to gene copy number variation, alters the efficacy of recruitment of Th17 lymphocytes to the site of infection, altering the dynamics of infection.

UI  - 22837326
TI  - Probability of negative mycobacterium tuberculosis complex cultures based on time to detection of positive cultures: a multicenter evaluation of commercial-broth-based culture systems.
AB  - We conducted a multicenter study to determine whether Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex (MTBC) cultures in automated broth-based systems could reliably be considered negative sooner than 6 weeks. Laboratory sites used Bactec MGIT or BacT/Alert and tracked results of time to detection of all mycobacteria (TTD-all, n = 1547) and of MTBC (TTD-MTBC, n = 466) over 6-month periods from primarily (93%) respiratory specimens. Cumulative percentages by day detected and median TTD of initial and follow-up specimens were analyzed. The median TTD-MTBC for MGIT (n = 6 sites) was 14 days. For laboratories using standard processing procedures, 100% of MTBC were detected from initial and follow-up specimens in 28 and 35 days, respectively, and no yield of MTBC on solid or MGIT liquid media was observed after 5 weeks. The median TTD-MTBC for BacT/Alert (n = 3 sites) was 18 days, with 95% and 100% detected within 37 and 42 days, respectively. Analysis of TTD of positive MTBC cultures in broth can predict the probability of culture negativity at defined time points. Receipt of interim negative reports earlier than 6 weeks could assist clinicians in considering alternative diagnoses and could alter the timing and prioritization of public health interventions. Laboratories should analyze their own TTD data to inform protocol decisions. Laboratories using MGIT could issue reports of no growth of MTBC on initial specimens as early as 4 weeks and for patients undergoing treatment as early as 5 weeks postinoculation.

UI  - 22834123
TI  - [Cycloferon in the complex therapy of patients with widespread forms of pulmonary tuberculosis].
AB  - Research performed at the Grodno Regional Clinical Center "Phthisiology" was aimed at studying the dynamics of IFN-gamma and IL-4 in serum of patients with widespread forms of pulmonary tuberculosis, treated by polychemotherapy with the use of cycloferon. Results of the clinical and laboratory evaluation of the effectiveness of the basic course of treatment are presented. A total of 238 patients, including 32 patients with limited forms of the pulmonary tuberculosis and 206 patients had widespread forms of pulmonary tuberculosis, were randomized into the basic group (BG) and comparison group (CG), where 95 CG patients received only polychemotherapy and 111 BG patients received polychemotherapy with the use of cycloferon. Data on the initial levels of cytokines (IFN-gamma and IL-4) in healthy persons and patients with various spread ofa tubercular inflammation in lungs are presented and compared. It is established that, in patients with widespread forms, initially low level of IFN-gamma and high concentration IL-4 (in comparison with the limited forms) shows a severe disbalance between Th1- and Th2-mediated immune response. The administration of cycloferon in the complex therapy of patients with widespread forms leads to an increase in the IFN-gamma concentration at initially low levels (below median level of this cytokine in healthy humans). Activation of the Th1-mediated immune response upon using cycloferon leads to an early elimination of clinical manifestations of the intoxication syndrome, positive roentgenological dynamics, conversion of sputum smear, and successful outcomes of treatment.

UI  - 22830951
TI  - Screening patients with diabetes mellitus for tuberculosis in China.
AB  - This pilot project shows that it is feasible to carry out screening of DM patients for TB resulting in high detection rates of TB. This has major public health and patient-related implications.

UI  - 22830945
TI  - Screening of patients with tuberculosis for diabetes mellitus in China.
AB  - This pilot project shows that it is feasible to screen patients with TB for DM in the routine setting, resulting in a high yield of patients with known and newly diagnosed disease. Free blood tests for glucose measurement and integration of TB and DM services may improve the diagnosis and management of dually affected patients.

UI  - 22828481
TI  - 14-day bactericidal activity of PA-824, bedaquiline, pyrazinamide, and moxifloxacin combinations: a randomised trial.
AB  - The Global Alliance for TB Drug Development (TB Alliance).

UI  - 22815718
TI  - The diagnostic accuracy of urine-based Xpert MTB/RIF in HIV-infected hospitalized patients who are smear-negative or sputum scarce.
AB  - This preliminary study indicates that urine-based MTB/RIF, alone or in combination with LAM antigen detection, may potentially aid the diagnosis of TB in HIV-infected patients with advanced immunosuppression when sputum-based diagnosis is not possible. Concentration of urine prior to MTB/RIF-testing significantly improves sensitivity.

UI  - 22808112
TI  - Liver enzyme abnormalities and associated risk factors in HIV patients on efavirenz-based HAART with or without tuberculosis co-infection in Tanzania.
AB  - Antiretroviral and anti-tuberculosis DILI does occur in our setting, presenting early following HAART initiation. DILI seen is mild, transient and may not require treatment interruption. There is good tolerance to HAART and anti-TB with similar immunological outcomes. Genetic make-up mainly CYP2B6 genotype influences the development of efavirenz based HAART liver injury in Tanzanians.

UI  - 22808020
TI  - Oral antimicrobial rinse to reduce mycobacterial culture contamination among tuberculosis suspects in Uganda: a prospective study.
AB  - Oral rinse prior to sputum expectoration is a promising strategy to reduce mycobacterial culture contamination in areas with high HIV prevalence, if strategies can be devised to reduce the adverse impact of oral rinse on smear- and culture-positivity.

UI  - 22805400
TI  - Comparison of 5 IU and 10 IU tuberculin test results in patients on chronic dialysis.
AB  - Immunocompromised patients such as those with end-stage kidney failure under-going hemodialysis (HD) are at increased risk of developing tuberculosis (TB). For this reason, routine TB screening of HD patients with tuberculin test has been recommended. The Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has recommended that patients with chronic renal failure should undergo annual skin testing for TB with tuberculin [purified protein derivative (PPD)], with an induration of 10 mm at 48 h depicting a positive reaction. The aim of this study was to compare the results of two different doses of PPD in dialysis patients. This descriptive and comparative multicenter study was performed on 255 patients on chronic dialysis in Tabriz, Iran. These patients did not have the PPD test done within the preceding one year. Patients were divided into two groups randomly and conventional or double-dose tuberculin test was performed using the Mantoux technique with 5 IU (group 1) and 10 IU (group 2) of PPD. Results were interpreted 48-72 h after injection. Patients were divided into those with less than 10 mm and those with 10 mm duration. Mean age was 44.6  15 years (M/F = 1.5/1). The mean duration on dialysis was 39  7 months. There was no significant difference regarding the age, gender, dura-tion on dialysis, causes of chronic kidney disease, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, C-reactive protein and serum albumin between the two groups. The mean induration was 4.6 mm and 7.7 mm in groups 1 and 2, respectively. There was induration 10 mm in 19.6% and 25.5% of group 1 and 2, respectively, which showed a significant difference (P <0.05). In conclusion, because of the high frequency of TB in dialysis patients, an annual tuberculin test may be recommended. Our study showed that the double-dose tuberculin test may be a better substitute to the conventional test in dialysis patients.

UI  - 22805116
TI  - Clinical predictors for the aetiology of peripheral lymphadenopathy in HIV-infected adults.
AB  - Lymphadenopathy is likely to be reactive or malignant in nontuberculosis endemic regions. Readily available clinical features can aid clinicians in predicting the underlying aetiology, those at risk for malignancy, and who to biopsy.

UI  - 22803615
TI  - The safety of ustekinumab treatment in patients with moderate-to-severe psoriasis and latent tuberculosis infection.
AB  - Across five trials of ustekinumab-treated patients with psoriasis, no cases of LTBI reactivation were observed in patients receiving concomitant INH prophylaxis for LTBI. INH prophylaxis was generally well tolerated by these patients with psoriasis.

UI  - 22789508
TI  - Effect of vaccine dose on the safety and immunogenicity of a candidate TB vaccine, MVA85A, in BCG vaccinated UK adults.
AB  - A higher dose of 110(8)PFU of MVA85A is well-tolerated, increases the frequency of IFN- secreting T cells detected following immunisation and broadens the range of Ag85A epitopes detected.

UI  - 22789497
TI  - Predictors of poor outcomes among patients treated for multidrug-resistant tuberculosis at DOTS-plus projects.
AB  - The Objective of this analysis was to identify predictors of death, failure, and default among MDR-TB patients treated with second-line drugs in DOTS-plus projects in Estonia, Latvia, Philippines, Russia, and Peru, 2000-2004. Risk ratios (RR) with 95% confidence intervals (CI) were calculated using multivariable regression. Of 1768 patients, treatment outcomes were: cure/completed - 1156 (65%), died - 200 (11%), default - 241 (14%), failure - 118 (7%). Independent predictors of death included: age>45 years (RR = 1.90 (95%CI 1.29-2.80), HIV infection (RR = 4.22 (2.65-6.72)), extrapulmonary disease (RR = 1.54 (1.04-2.26)), BMI<18.5 (RR = 2.71 (1.91-3.85)), previous use of fluoroquinolones (RR = 1.91 (1.31-2.78)), resistance to any thioamide (RR = 1.59 (1.14-2.22)), baseline positive smear (RR = 2.22 (1.60-3.10)), no culture conversion by 3rd month of treatment (RR = 1.69 (1.19-2.41)); failure: cavitary disease (RR = 1.73 (1.07-2.80)), resistance to any fluoroquinolone (RR = 2.73 (1.71-4.37)) and any thioamide (RR = 1.62 (1.12-2.34)), and no culture conversion by 3rd month (RR = 5.84 (3.02-11.27)); default: unemployment (RR = 1.50 (1.12-2.01)), homelessness (RR = 1.52 (1.00-2.31)), imprisonment (RR = 1.86 (1.42-2.45)), alcohol abuse (RR = 1.60 (1.18-2.16)), and baseline positive smear (RR = 1.35 (1.07-1.71)). Patients with biomedical risk factors for treatment failure or death should receive heightened medical attention. To prevent treatment default, management of patients who are unemployed, homeless, alcoholic, or have a prison history requires extra measures to insure treatment completion.

UI  - 22788240
TI  - Genetic interaction between NAT2, GSTM1, GSTT1, CYP2E1, and environmental factors is associated with adverse reactions to anti-tuberculosis drugs.
AB  - The study findings provide evidence of the clinical impact of the interaction between pharmacogenetic variability and environmental factors on ADRs induced by anti-TB drug therapy. Predictive pharmacogenetic testing and a comprehensive clinical history would therefore be helpful for identification and careful monitoring of patients at high risk of this complication.

UI  - 22783598
TI  - Knowledge and attitudes towards tuberculosis in non medical students University of Belgrade.
AB  - Students' knowledge on TB is inadequate, especially on its cause and way of transmission. More effort is needed in university students' health education.

UI  - 22782640
TI  - Comprehensive tuberculosis screening program in patients with inflammatory arthritides treated with golimumab, a human anti-tumor necrosis factor antibody, in Phase III clinical trials.
AB  - Comprehensive TB screening kept the number of active TB cases relatively low despite conducting the studies in TB-endemic regions. Treatment for latent TB infection appeared effective, since no patients treated for latent TB had TB reactivation. Concurrent treatment with golimumab and anti-TB medication was generally well tolerated. Clinicians should remain vigilant for development of active TB after initiation of TNF inhibitors, since prompt diagnosis and treatment can improve outcomes.

UI  - 22776241
TI  - Pulmonary tuberculosis diagnostic delays in Chad: a multicenter, hospital-based survey in Ndjamena and Moundou.
AB  - Targeted strengthening of the health-care system, including improving patient access, addressing deficiencies in health-related human resources, and improving laboratory networks and linkages as well as community mobilization will make for better outcomes in tuberculosis diagnosis.

UI  - 22764425
TI  - Promoting public-private mix for TB-DOTs: a multi-country study from the WHO Eastern Mediterranean Region.
AB  - This study was carried out to document the implementation status of public-private mix (PPM) in 6 member countries of the World Health Organization Eastern Mediterranean Region, with a particular focus on advocacy, communication and social mobilization (ACSM) specific to PPM. Interviews and focus group discussions were held with staff of national tuberculosis control programmes and partners. Four PPM models were being practised. For all models, ACSM specific to PPM was at the elementary stage. Participants perceived that promoting private partners was difficult, specific policy guidelines were deficient and human resources and capacity for both initiatives were lacking across the region. Building ACSM capacity is required along with the development of guidelines and the implementation of country-specific communication plans to carry out local-level advocacy, strategic communication and effective social mobilization to maximize the benefits of PPM.

UI  - 22760564
TI  - Vitamin D, tuberculin skin test conversion, and latent tuberculosis in Mongolian school-age children: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled feasibility trial.
AB  - Vitamin D supplementation for 6 mo had significant favorable effects on serum 25(OH)D concentrations and on growth in stature. A trend was seen toward fewer TST conversions in the vitamin D group. This trial was registered at clinicaltrials.gov as NCT01244204.

UI  - 22758779
TI  - Poor correlation between tuberculin skin tests and interferon- assays in close contacts of patients with multidrug-resistant tuberculosis.
AB  - The TST and QFT-GIT assays showed poor correlation in close contacts of patients with MDR-TB, especially those contacts who had received BCG vaccination.

UI  - 22747953
TI  - Multiple drug hypersensitivity reactions to anti-tuberculosis drugs: five cases in HIV-infected patients.
AB  - In a description of MDH in five HIV-TB co-infected patients, including acute peripheral neuropathy, SM and OFX were the most common offending drugs.

UI  - 22747856
TI  - Drug lymphocyte stimulation test is not useful for side effects of anti-tuberculosis drugs despite its timing.
AB  - DLST is not useful for determining the causative drug in patients with rash, hepatitis or fever reactions to anti-tuberculosis drugs, regardless of when it is performed.

UI  - 22736022
TI  - Clinical evaluation of the stability of single-segment short pedicle screw fixation for the reconstruction of lumbar and sacral tuberculosis lesions.
AB  - Single-segment pedicle screw fixation and correction surgery can fix and fuse the diseased segment in lumbar and sacral tuberculosis, retain normal movement in the adjacent spinal column, and promote functional recovery of the spinal column postoperatively. It was be regarded as a cost-effective means of treatment with lumbar and sacral tuberculosis.

UI  - 22734962
TI  - Gender differences in treatment outcomes of tuberculosis patients in Taiwan: a prospective observational study.
AB  - Gender disparities in tuberculosis (TB) cases are reported worldwide, and socio-cultural factors have been proposed as possible causes. To date, gender differences in treatment outcomes of TB patients remain controversial. In this prospective observational study, newly diagnosed, culture-proven TB patients from six hospitals in Taiwan were enrolled for analysis. Gender differences in demographic characteristics and treatment outcomes, including sputum conversion and on-treatment mortality, were analysed accordingly. From January 2007 through to December 2009, a total of 1059 patients were enrolled, including 819 (77.3%) males and 240 (22.7%) females. The ratio of male gender was around 50 ~ 60% in TB patients below 35 years and >80% for those older than 65 years. When compared with the female patients, the male patients were older, more likely to have the habit of smoking, chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder, malignancy and liver cirrhosis, and more likely to present with haemoptysis, body weight loss and pleural effusion. Regarding treatment outcomes, male gender is associated with a lower 2-month sputum culture conversion rate (78.8% vs. 89.3%, p 0.002) and higher on-treatment mortality (21.1% vs. 12.1%, p 0.002). Kaplan-Meier survival analysis demonstrated significantly higher mortality in the men (p 0.005). In multivariate analysis, male gender was an independent risk factor for 2-month sputum culture un-conversion (OR, 1.96; 95% CI, 1.12-3.41). Our findings suggest that male gender is associated with older age, more co-morbidities and worse treatment outcomes. Gender-specific strategies, including active case finding in elderly women and smoking cessation in male patients, are warranted to optimize TB management.

UI  - 22704276
TI  - [Life-threatening hemoptysis: study of 154 patients].
AB  - Leading causes were bronchiectasis and tuberculosis. While bronchoscopy during a hemoptysis episode was effective in identifying the source of the bleeding, artery embolization was more effective in stabilizing the patient both at the short and long term.

UI  - 22703726
TI  - [Treatment duration of extra-pulmonary tuberculosis: 6 months or more? TB-INFO database analysis].
AB  - A period of 6 months seems to be sufficient to treat extrapulmonary tuberculosis (except for neuromeningeal localization).

UI  - 22700862
TI  - Identifying predictors of interferon- release assay results in pediatric latent tuberculosis: a protective role of bacillus Calmette-Guerin?: a pTB-NET collaborative study.
AB  - Our data show that BCG vaccination may be effective in protecting children against Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection. To restrict use of IFN- release assays to children with positive skin tests risks underestimating latent infection.

UI  - 22700860
TI  - Corticosteroid-modulated immune activation in the tuberculosis immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome.
AB  - The beneficial effects of prednisone in TB-IRIS appear to be mediated via suppression of predominantly proinflammatory cytokine responses of innate immune origin, not via a reduction of the numbers of antigen-specific T cells in peripheral blood.

UI  - 22700845
TI  - Universal HIV testing in London tuberculosis clinics: a cluster randomised controlled trial.
AB  - We assessed whether implementation of a combination of interventions in London tuberculosis clinics raised the levels of HIV test offers, acceptance and coverage. A stepped-wedge cluster randomised controlled trial was conducted across 24 clinics. Interventions were training of clinical staff and provision of tailor-made information resources with or without a change in clinic policy from selective to universal HIV testing. The primary outcome was HIV test acceptance amongst those offered a test, before and after the intervention; the secondary outcome was an offer of HIV testing. Additionally, the number and proportion of HIV tests among all clinic attendees (coverage) was assessed. 1,315 patients were seen in 24 clinics. The offer and coverage of testing rose significantly in clinics without (p = 0.002 and p = 0.004, respectively) and with an existing policy of universal testing (p = 0.02 and p = 0.04, respectively). However, the level of HIV test acceptance did not increase in 18 clinics without routine universal testing (p = 0.76) or the six clinics with existing universal testing (p = 0.40). The intervention significantly increased the number of HIV tests offered and proportion of participants tested, although acceptance did not change significantly. However, the magnitude of increase is modest due to the high baseline coverage.

UI  - 22695364
TI  - Isoniazid pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, and dosing in South African infants.
AB  - INH at an average dose of 14.5 mg/kg once daily was well tolerated in infants and achieved INH Cmax values 3 mg/L and AUC0-24 values 10.52 mgh/L.

UI  - 22670901
TI  - Delamanid for multidrug-resistant pulmonary tuberculosis.
AB  - Delamanid was associated with an increase in sputum-culture conversion at 2 months among patients with multidrug-resistant tuberculosis. This finding suggests that delamanid could enhance treatment options for multidrug-resistant tuberculosis. (Funded by Otsuka Pharmaceutical Development and Commercialization; ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00685360.).

UI  - 22652482
TI  - Comparison of PET/CT with other imaging modalities in women with genital tuberculosis.
AB  - Imaging with (18)F-FDG-PET/CT is noninvasive and appears to be clinically useful for the diagnosis of tubercular tubo-ovarian masses.

UI  - 22647661
TI  - Point-of-care breath test for biomarkers of active pulmonary tuberculosis.
AB  - A six-minute point-of-care breath test for volatile biomarkers accurately identified subjects with active pulmonary TB.

UI  - 22643213
TI  - Improved CD4 T cell responses to Mycobacterium tuberculosis in PPD-negative adults by M72/AS01 as compared to the M72/AS02 and Mtb72F/AS02 tuberculosis candidate vaccine formulations: a randomized trial.
AB  - This first clinical study with M72/AS01 and M72/AS02 showed that both vaccines were clinically well tolerated and induced high magnitude and persistent cell-mediated and humoral immune responses. The Mtb72F/AS02 and M72/AS02 vaccines were comparably immunogenic with significantly higher immune responses compared to the M72/saline control. Of the formulations tested, M72/AS01 demonstrated significantly higher vaccine specific Th1 CD4(+) T cell responses supporting its further clinical evaluation.

UI  - 22640513
TI  - Reasons for non-participation in an international multicenter trial of a new drug for tuberculosis treatment.
AB  - Increased evaluation of screening outcomes and of specific interventions, such as improved education and communication about trial procedures, may increase the efficiency of screening and enrollment in clinical trials.

UI  - 22640511
TI  - Extension of the intensive phase reduces relapse but not failure in a regimen with rifampicin throughout.
AB  - Extension of P1 is very inefficient with this 6-month regimen. Operational research should define appropriate algorithms allowing an earlier switch to the next higher regimen for those in need, using follow-up smears for screening.

UI  - 22629334
TI  - Concomitant pulmonary tuberculosis in hospitalized healthcare-associated pneumonia in a tuberculosis endemic area: a multi-center retrospective study.
AB  - In HCAP patients, the occurrence of concomitant PTB is comparable with that in CAP patients and associated with higher PSI scores, more acute respiratory failure, and higher in-hospital mortality.

UI  - 22613683
TI  - Language in tuberculosis services: can we change to patient-centred terminology and stop the paradigm of blaming the patients?
AB  - The words 'defaulter', 'suspect' and 'control' have been part of the language of tuberculosis (TB) services for many decades, and they continue to be used in international guidelines and in published literature. From a patient perspective, it is our opinion that these terms are at best inappropriate, coercive and disempowering, and at worst they could be perceived as judgmental and criminalising, tending to place the blame of the disease or responsibility for adverse treatment outcomes on one side-that of the patients. In this article, which brings together a wide range of authors and institutions from Africa, Asia, Latin America, Europe and the Pacific, we discuss the use of the words 'defaulter', 'suspect' and 'control' and argue why it is detrimental to continue using them in the context of TB. We propose that 'defaulter' be replaced with 'person lost to follow-up'; that 'TB suspect' be replaced by 'person with presumptive TB' or 'person to be evaluated for TB'; and that the term 'control' be replaced with 'prevention and care' or simply deleted. These terms are non-judgmental and patient-centred. We appeal to the global Stop TB Partnership to lead discussions on this issue and to make concrete steps towards changing the current paradigm.

UI  - 22607233
TI  - A pivotal registration phase III, multicenter, randomized tuberculosis controlled trial: design issues and lessons learnt from the Gatifloxacin for TB (OFLOTUB) project.
AB  - When shortening TB treatment, we are advocating for a non-inferiority, non-blinded design, with a composite unfavorable endpoint assessed 12 months post treatment completion, and added trial procedures specifically aiming to: (1) minimize endpoint unavailability; and (2) distinguish between relapse and re-infection.

UI  - 22606361
TI  - Iron status predicts treatment failure and mortality in tuberculosis patients: a prospective cohort study from Dar es Salaam, Tanzania.
AB  - Both iron deficiency and overload exist in TB patients and may contribute to disease progression and poor clinical outcomes. Strategies to maintain normal iron status in TB patients could be helpful to reduce TB morbidity and mortality.

UI  - 22592586
TI  - Time to initiate antiretroviral therapy between 4 weeks and 12 weeks of tuberculosis treatment in HIV-infected patients: results from the TIME study.
AB  - In middle-income countries where ART is initiated at CD4 count of <350 cells per cubic millimeter, immediate initiation of ART in HIV-infected patients with active TB was not associated with survival advantage when compared to initiation of ART at 12 weeks.

UI  - 22586160
TI  - Screening for latent tuberculosis infection: performance of tuberculin skin test and interferon- release assays under real-life conditions.
AB  - LTBI test results in an individual patient need to be considered in the context of prior BCG vaccination and clinical risk factors. In patient populations with low rates of TB incidence and BCG vaccination, the use of both TST and IGRA may maximise sensitivity in detecting LTBI but may also reduce specificity.

UI  - 22585223
TI  - Moxifloxacin population pharmacokinetics in patients with pulmonary tuberculosis and the effect of intermittent high-dose rifapentine.
AB  - We described the population pharmacokinetics of moxifloxacin and the effect of high-dose intermittent rifapentine in patients with pulmonary tuberculosis who were randomized to a continuation-phase regimen of 400 mg moxifloxacin and 900 mg rifapentine twice weekly or 400 mg moxifloxacin and 1,200 mg rifapentine once weekly. A two-compartment model with transit absorption best described moxifloxacin pharmacokinetics. Although rifapentine increased the clearance of moxifloxacin by 8% during antituberculosis treatment compared to that after treatment completion without rifapentine, it did not result in a clinically significant change in moxifloxacin exposure.

UI  - 22581022
TI  - Effect of nutritional status on Tuberculin skin testing.
AB  - The nutritional status, measured by McLaren's classification, does not changes the results of TST. McLaren's classification only grades protein-caloric malnutrition, so in authors' experience this type of malnutrition does not interfere with TST results. Implementing other nutritional parameters could help to determine whether nutritional status should be taken into account when interpreting TST results.

UI  - 22575012
TI  - Performance of the new WHO diagnostic algorithm for smear-negative pulmonary tuberculosis in HIV prevalent settings: a multisite study in Uganda.
AB  - At both sites, WHO07 expedited diagnosis of smear-negative PTB with increased diagnostic accuracy compared with the UgWHO03. The WHO07 expedited diagnosis more at the urban ASO but with more diagnostic accuracy at the rural hospital. Barriers to implementation should be taken into account when operationalising these guidelines for TB diagnosis in resource-limited settings.

UI  - 22569120
TI  - Performance of an interferon-gamma release assay to diagnose latent tuberculosis infection during pregnancy.
AB  - : II.

UI  - 22564839
TI  - Population pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of ofloxacin in South African patients with multidrug-resistant tuberculosis.
AB  - Despite the important role of fluoroquinolones and the predominant use of ofloxacin for treating multidrug-resistant tuberculosis in South Africa, there are limited data on ofloxacin pharmacokinetics in patients with multidrug-resistant tuberculosis, no ofloxacin pharmacokinetic data from South African patients, and no direct assessment of the relationship between ofloxacin pharmacokinetics and the MIC of ofloxacin of patient isolates. Our objectives are to describe ofloxacin pharmacokinetics in South African patients being treated for multidrug-resistant tuberculosis and assess the adequacy of ofloxacin drug exposure with respect to the probability of pharmacodynamic target attainment (area under the time curve/MIC ratio of at least 100). Sixty-five patients with multidrug-resistant tuberculosis were recruited from 2 hospitals in South Africa. We determined the ofloxacin MICs for the Mycobacterium tuberculosis isolates from baseline sputum specimens. Patients received daily doses of 800 mg ofloxacin, in addition to other antitubercular drugs. Patients underwent pharmacokinetic sampling at steady state. NONMEM was used for data analysis. The population pharmacokinetics of ofloxacin in this study has been adequately described. The probability of target attainment expectation in the study population was 0.45. Doubling the dose to 1,600 mg could increase this to only 0.77. The currently recommended ofloxacin dose appeared inadequate for the majority of this study population. Studies to assess the tolerability of higher doses are warranted. Alternatively, ofloxacin should be replaced with more potent fluoroquinolones.

UI  - 22558436
TI  - Evaluation of a novel biphasic culture medium for recovery of mycobacteria: a multi-center study.
AB  - The biphasic culture medium developed in this study is low-cost and suitable for mycobacterial recovery. It does not require any expensive detection instrumentation, decreases the time required for detection of M. tuberculosis complex, and increases the detection rate of M. tuberculosis complex.

UI  - 22554943
TI  - Epidemiology of spinal fractures among the elderly in Chongqing, China.
AB  - Spinal fractures usually occur outdoors causing by accidental falls from low heights, most frequently happen on the road. The number of fall-induced injuries and sports injury increased steadily with age, may indicate that there is growing concern for the consequences of falls and sports in the elderly.

UI  - 22546991
TI  - Pharmacokinetics of nevirapine in HIV-infected children under 3 years on rifampicin-based antituberculosis treatment.
AB  - : We found substantial reductions in nevirapine concentrations in young children receiving rifampicin. Further studies are needed to define the pharmacokinetics, safety and efficacy of adjusted doses of nevirapine-based ART in young children with tuberculosis.

UI  - 22533165
TI  - A pilot study of same day sputum smear examination, its feasibility and usefulness in diagnosis of pulmonary TB.
AB  - Same day smear microscopy for diagnosing tuberculosis by a proposed new method of smear examination in the case of suspected tuberculosis seems not a promising step towards improving the quality of sputum smear examination. The results of sensitivity and specificity of the two approaches were not similar. More than eighty per cent responded in favour of same day sputum delivery system and getting result on same day. This study can be confirmed on larger scale and preference of patients can be examined in peripheral laboratory also before taking it up for consideration in the national tuberculosis programme.

UI  - 22531915
TI  - NOD2 enhances the innate response of alveolar macrophages to Mycobacterium tuberculosis in humans.
AB  - A role for the nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain 2 (NOD2) receptor in pulmonary innate immune responses has recently been explored. In the present study, we investigated the role that NOD2 plays in human alveolar macrophage innate responses and determined its involvement in the response to infection with virulent Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Our results showed that NOD2 was expressed in human alveolar macrophages, and significant amounts of IL-1, IL-6, and TNF- were produced upon ligand recognition with muramyldipeptide (MDP). NOD2 ligation induced the transcription and protein expression of the antimicrobial peptide LL37 and the autophagy enzyme IRGM in alveolar macrophages, demonstrating a novel function for this receptor in these cells. MDP treatment of alveolar macrophages improved the intracellular growth control of virulent M. tuberculosis; this was associated with a significant release of TNF- and IL-6 and overexpression of bactericidal LL37. In addition, the autophagy proteins IRGM, LC3 and ATG16L1 were recruited to the bacteria-containing autophagosome after treatment with MDP. In conclusion, our results suggest that NOD2 can modulate the innate immune response of alveolar macrophages and play a role in the initial control of respiratory M. tuberculosis infections.

UI  - 22531759
TI  - High diagnostic yield of tuberculosis from screening urine samples from HIV-infected patients with advanced immunodeficiency using the Xpert MTB/RIF assay.
AB  - We determined the diagnostic yield of the Xpert MTB/RIF assay for tuberculosis (TB) when testing small volumes of urine from ambulatory HIV-infected patients before starting antiretroviral therapy in South Africa. Compared with a gold standard of sputum culture, the sensitivity of urine Xpert among those with CD4 cell counts of <50, 50-100, and >100 cells per microliter were 44.4%, 25.0%, and 2.7% (P = 0.001), respectively. Urine Xpert testing provides a means of rapid TB diagnosis in patients with advanced immunodeficiency and poor prognosis. These data are indicative of high rates of TB dissemination and renal involvement in this clinical population.

UI  - 22523581
TI  - Peripheral T cell cytokine responses for diagnosis of active tuberculosis.
AB  - T cells producing one cytokine and polyfunctional T cells have a limited role in diagnosis of active TB. The significant shift from a "memory type" to an "effector type" cytokine profile may be useful for further development of a rapid immune-diagnostic tool for active TB.

UI  - 22507943
TI  - Almost universal coverage: HIV testing among TB patients in a rural public programme.
AB  - 

UI  - 22507441
TI  - Paradoxical response in HIV-negative patients with pleural tuberculosis: a retrospective multicentre study.
AB  - Paradoxical response developed in 16% of the patients approximately 2 months after initiation of anti-tuberculosis treatment, presenting with aggravation of pre-existing pleural effusion. Development of paradoxical response was associated with the proportion of eosinophils and protein concentrations in the pleural fluid at the time of diagnosis.

UI  - 22489253
TI  - Impact of previous ART and of ART initiation on outcome of HIV-associated tuberculosis.
AB  - ART during tuberculosis treatment is associated with a substantial reduction of death rate among HIV-infected patients. However, patients who are not ART-naive when they develop tuberculosis remain at elevated risk of death.

UI  - 22483479
TI  - Safety and efficacy of a quinolone-based regimen for treatment of tuberculosis in renal transplant recipients.
AB  - A QNL-based regimen may be safe and effective for treatment of tuberculosis and may lower the risk of graft failure in renal transplant recipients.

UI  - 22470117
TI  - Influence of antituberculosis drug resistance and Mycobacterium tuberculosis lineage on outcome in HIV-associated tuberculous meningitis.
AB  - HIV-associated tuberculous meningitis (TBM) has high mortality. Aside from the devastating impact of multidrug resistance (MDR) on survival, little is understood about the influence of other bacterial factors on outcome. This study examined the influence of Mycobacterium tuberculosis drug resistance, bacterial lineage, and host vaccination status on outcome in patients with HIV-associated TBM. Mycobacterium tuberculosis isolates from the cerebrospinal fluid of 186 patients enrolled in two studies of HIV-associated TBM in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam, were tested for resistance to first-line antituberculosis drugs. Lineage genotyping was available for 122 patients. The influence of antituberculosis drug resistance and M. tuberculosis lineage on 9-month mortality was analyzed using Kaplan-Meier survival analysis and Cox multiple regression models. Isoniazid (INH) resistance without rifampin resistance was associated with increased mortality (adjusted hazard ratio [HR], 1.78, 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.18 to 2.66; P = 0.005), and multidrug resistance was uniformly fatal (n = 8/8; adjusted HR, 5.21, 95% CI, 2.38 to 11.42; P < 0.0001). The hazard ratio for INH-resistant cases was greatest during the continuation phase of treatment (after 3 months; HR, 5.05 [95% CI, 2.23 to 11.44]; P = 0.0001). Among drug-susceptible cases, patients infected with the "modern" Beijing lineage strains had lower mortality than patients infected with the "ancient" Indo-Oceanic lineage (HR, 0.29 [95% CI, 0.14 to 0.61]; P = 0.001). Isoniazid resistance, multidrug resistance, and M. tuberculosis lineage are important determinants of mortality in patients with HIV-associated TBM. Interventions which target these factors may help reduce the unacceptably high mortality in patients with TBM.

UI  - 22467670
TI  - Meta-analysis of clinical studies supports the pharmacokinetic variability hypothesis for acquired drug resistance and failure of antituberculosis therapy.
AB  - Pharmacokinetic variability to a single drug in the regimen is significantly associated with failure of therapy and ADR in patients. This suggests that individualized dosing for tuberculosis may be more effective than standardized dosing, which is prescribed in directly observed therapy programs.

UI  - 22463821
TI  - Clinical features and presentation of infectious scleritis from herpes viruses: a report of 35 cases.
AB  - The association between scleritis and infectious disease may be higher than previously reported by other series. Herpes viruses account for 7% of all scleritis cases and its diagnosis may be challenging when there is not a classically diagnostic clinical picture. We present the observed clinical features of herpetic scleritis and describe the clinical differences at presentation between patients with idiopathic scleritis and those with herpes infection.

UI  - 22442666
TI  - A morbidity survey of South African primary care.
AB  - Ambulatory primary care is dominated by non-communicable chronic diseases. HIV/AIDS and TB are common, but not to the extent predicted by the burden of disease. Pneumonia and gastroenteritis are commonly seen especially in children. Women's health issues such as family planning and pregnancy related visits are also common. Injuries are not as common as expected from the burden of disease. Primary care providers did not recognise mental health problems. The results should guide the future training and assessment of primary care providers.

UI  - 22436147
TI  - CD4 lymphocyte dynamics in Tanzanian pulmonary tuberculosis patients with and without HIV co-infection.
AB  - Clinical trials.gov: NCT00311298.

UI  - 22435244
TI  - Lipid profile changes in Thai HIV and tuberculosis co-infected patients receiving non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors-based antiretroviral therapy.
AB  - NNRTI-based ART is associated with increases of TC, LDL-C and HDL-C values in Thai HIV and TB co-infected patients. More favorable lipid profile is observed in NVP-based than EFV-based ART.

UI  - 22430968
TI  - Phase II dose-ranging trial of the early bactericidal activity of PA-824.
AB  - PA-824 is a novel nitroimidazo-oxazine under evaluation as an antituberculosis agent. A dose-ranging randomized study was conducted to evaluate the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics, and early bactericidal activity of PA-824 in drug-sensitive, sputum smear-positive adult pulmonary-tuberculosis patients to find the lowest dose giving optimal bactericidal activity (EBA). Fifteen patients per cohort received oral PA-824 in doses of 50 mg, 100 mg, 150 mg, or 200 mg per kg body weight per day for 14 days. Eight subjects received once-daily standard antituberculosis treatment with isoniazid, rifampin, pyrazinamide, and ethambutol (HRZE) as a positive control. The primary efficacy endpoint was the mean rate of decline in log CFU of Mycobacterium tuberculosis in sputum incubated on agar plates from serial overnight sputum collections, expressed as log(10) CFU/day/ml sputum ( standard deviation). The mean 14-day EBA of HRZE was consistent with previous studies (0.177  0.042), and that of PA-824 at 50 mg, 100 mg, 150 mg, and 200 mg was 0.063  0.058, 0.091  0.073, 0.078  0.074, and 0.112  0.070, respectively. Although the study was not powered for testing the difference between arms, there was a trend toward significance, indicating a lower EBA at the 50-mg dose. Serum PA-824 levels were approximately dose proportional with respect to the area under the time-concentration curve. All doses were safe and well tolerated with no dose-limiting adverse events or clinically significant QTc changes. A dose of 100 mg to 200 mg PA-824 daily appears to be safe and efficacious and will be further evaluated as a component of novel antituberculosis regimens for drug-sensitive and drug-resistant tuberculosis.

UI  - 22423128
TI  - Rhabdomyolysis in a patient treated with linezolid for extensively drug-resistant tuberculosis.
AB  - 

UI  - 22421494
TI  - Diagnostic yield of EUS-guided FNA and cytology in suspected tubercular intra-abdominal lymphadenopathy.
AB  - EUS-FNA is a safe, accurate, and minimally invasive modality for diagnosing the cause of abdominal lymphadenopathy. In highly endemic areas, tuberculosis is the most common cause.

UI  - 22419641
TI  - Isoniazid vs. rifampin for latent tuberculosis infection in jail inmates: toxicity and adherence.
AB  - This open-label randomized trial compared isoniazid (9 months) to rifampin (4 months) on toxicity and completion in a jailed population with latent tuberculosis infection. Rifampin resulted in fewer elevated liver function tests (risk ratio [RR] 0.39, 95% confidence interval [CI] [0.18, 0.86]) and less toxicity requiring medication withdrawal (RR 0.51, 95% CI [0.13, 2.01]), although one participant receiving rifampin experienced an allergic reaction. Completion was achieved for 33% receiving rifampin compared to 26% receiving isoniazid (p = .10). With careful monitoring rifampin is a safe and less toxic regimen and appears to be a reasonable alternative because of its shorter duration, allowing more people to complete treatment behind bars. Therapy completion in released inmates is unacceptably low and ensuring follow-up after discharge must be part of a decision to treat.

UI  - 22416258
TI  - IL-17 and IFN- expression in lymphocytes from patients with active tuberculosis correlates with the severity of the disease.
AB  - Th1 lymphocytes are crucial in the immune response against Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Nevertheless, IFN- alone is not sufficient in the complete eradication of the bacteria, suggesting that other cytokines might be required for pathogen removal. Th17 cells have been associated with M. tuberculosis infection, but the role of IL-17-producing cells in human TB remains to be understood. Therefore, we investigated the induction and regulation of IFN- and IL-17 during the active disease. TB patients were classified as High and Low Responder individuals according to their T cell responses against the antigen, and cytokine expression upon M. tuberculosis stimulation was investigated in peripheral blood and pleural fluid. Afterwards, the potential correlation among the proportions of cytokine-producing cells and clinical parameters was analyzed. In TB patients, M. tuberculosis induced IFN- and IL-17, but in comparison with BCG-vaccinated healthy donors, IFN- results were reduced significantly, and IL-17 was markedly augmented. Moreover, the main source of IL-17 was represented by CD4(+)IFN-(+)IL-17(+) lymphocytes, a Th1/Th17 subset regulated by IFN-. Interestingly, the ratio of antigen-expanded CD4(+)IFN-(+)IL-17(+) lymphocytes, in peripheral blood and pleural fluid from TB patients, was correlated directly with clinical parameters associated with disease severity. Indeed, the highest proportion of CD4(+)IFN-(+)IL-17(+) cells was detected in Low Responder TB patients, individuals displaying severe pulmonary lesions, and longest length of disease evolution. Taken together, the present findings suggest that analysis of the expansion of CD4(+)IFN-(+)IL-17(+) T lymphocytes in peripheral blood of TB patients might be used as an indicator of the clinical outcome in active TB.

UI  - 22410137
TI  - Latent tuberculosis infection treatment for prison inmates: a randomised controlled trial.
AB  - 4R is safer and has a higher completion rate than 6H as treatment for LTBI among male prison inmates.

UI  - 22406155
TI  - Anti-phospholipid antibody levels as biomarker for monitoring tuberculosis treatment response.
AB  - Standard methods to monitor tuberculosis (TB) treatment response rely on sputum microscopy and culture conversion. Alternatives to these methods are needed for those patients whose sputum tests are smear or culture negative. Here, we examine anti-phospholipid IgM antibody level changes as a biomarker for treatment response in smear positive TB patients. Serum samples were obtained from 40 pulmonary TB patients at the start and end of the intensive phase treatment (IPT) from the CDC-TB Trials Consortium randomized clinical trial in Kampala, Uganda. Samples were screened by ELISA for IgM levels against five phospholipids found in Mycobacterium tuberculosis and host cells. Lipid antigens included cardiolipin (CL), phosphatidyl inositol (PI), phosphatidyl ethanolamine (PE), phosphatidyl choline (PTC), and sphingolipid (SL). Levels of IgM against all phospholipids significantly decreased (p=0.034, 0.001, 0.008 0.008, 0.040, respectively) following anti-TB drug treatment in patients without lung cavitary disease at baseline. The mean sensitivity of this test in these patients was 83% when the IgM response to a single lipid antigen was used; it was >90% when responses to 2 or more lipids were assessed. In contrast, cavitary TB patients showed an overall IgM increase, with a significant rise against PE (p=0.025). There was no significant difference in the change in antibody levels between patients who remained culture-positive and those who culture-converted after 40 doses of drug therapy. The measurement of IgM anti-phospholipid antibodies may be a useful biomarker to monitor treatment response in non-cavitary TB patients.

UI  - 22403070
TI  - Factors contributing to the high prevalence of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis: a study from China.
AB  - Inappropriate treatment is the most important influencing factor of MDR-TB. Increasing people's awareness of TB, early detection and appropriate treatment of patients with TB should become a priority, which requires strong commitment and collaboration among health organisations and greater compliance with TB treatment guidelines by service providers and patients.

UI  - 22401962
TI  - Identifying multidrug resistant tuberculosis transmission hotspots using routinely collected data.
AB  - In most countries with large drug resistant tuberculosis epidemics, only those cases that are at highest risk of having MDRTB receive a drug sensitivity test (DST) at the time of diagnosis. Because of this prioritized testing, identification of MDRTB transmission hotspots in communities where TB cases do not receive DST is challenging, as any observed aggregation of MDRTB may reflect systematic differences in how testing is distributed in communities. We introduce a new disease mapping method, which estimates this missing information through probability-weighted locations, to identify geographic areas of increased risk of MDRTB transmission. We apply this method to routinely collected data from two districts in Lima, Peru over three consecutive years. This method identifies an area in the eastern part of Lima where previously untreated cases have increased risk of MDRTB. This may indicate an area of increased transmission of drug resistant disease, a finding that may otherwise have been missed by routine analysis of programmatic data. The risk of MDR among retreatment cases is also highest in these probable transmission hotspots, though a high level of MDR among retreatment cases is present throughout the study area. Identifying potential multidrug resistant tuberculosis (MDRTB) transmission hotspots may allow for targeted investigation and deployment of resources.

UI  - 22401633
TI  - Clinical validation of sublingual formulations of Immunoxel (Dzherelo) as an adjuvant immunotherapy in treatment of TB patients.
AB  - Immunoxel (Dzherelo) is a water-alcohol extract of medicinal plants used in Ukraine as an adjunct immunotherapy to TB and HIV therapy. Four types of solid sublingual formulations of Immunoxel were made: sugar drages, sugar-coated pills, gelatin pastilles and dried-honey lozenges. They were administered once-daily along with TB drugs. After 1 month, 84.1% of TB patients became sputum-negative with rates in individual groups of 89.5, 70, 76.9 and 100%, respectively. The conversion rate was independent of bodyweight, age, gender, differences in chemotherapy regimens or whether subjects had newly diagnosed TB, re-treated TB, multidrug-resistant TB or TB with HIV coinfection. Patients experienced earlier clinical improvement, faster defervescence, weight gain, a higher hemoglobin content and reduced inflammation as evidenced by lower leukocyte counts and erythrocyte sedimentation rate. By contrast, in the placebo group, only 19% of patients had converted. These findings imply that mucosal delivery of solid Immunoxel is equivalent to the original liquid formula given per os twice-daily for 2-4 months.

UI  - 22391540
TI  - Randomized pilot trial of eight weeks of bedaquiline (TMC207) treatment for multidrug-resistant tuberculosis: long-term outcome, tolerability, and effect on emergence of drug resistance.
AB  - The 2-year follow-up results for a randomized placebo-controlled study of 47 patients with multidrug-resistant pulmonary tuberculosis treated with either the new diarylquinoline TMC207, recently renamed bedaquiline, or placebo, added to the first 8 weeks of a background regimen, are presented. Bedaquiline significantly reduced the time to culture conversion over 24 weeks (hazard ratio, 2.253; 95% confidence interval, 1.08 to 4.71; P = 0.031). With the exception of nausea reported in 26% of patients receiving bedaquiline and none receiving placebo, adverse events occurred at similar frequencies in both groups of patients: bilateral hearing impairment, extremity pain, acne, and noncardiac chest pain occurred in 13 and 21%, 17 and 13%, 9 and 17%, and 4 and 17% of patients, respectively, receiving bedaquiline or placebo. Excluding resistance to ethambutol and ethionamide, only one patient receiving bedaquiline acquired resistance to companion drugs, but five patients receiving placebo (4.8% versus 21.7%; P = 0.18) acquired resistance to companion drugs, and resistance to ofloxacin was acquired in four patients receiving placebo and none receiving bedaquiline (0% versus 22%; 0 = 0.066). In all, 23 patients (49%), including 13 receiving placebo (54%) and 10 receiving bedaquiline (44%), discontinued the study prior to its completion, 12 during the first 24 weeks of treatment. Eight subjects were withdrawn for noncompliance or default, and seven withdrew consent, citing the rigorous program of investigations for safety and pharmacokinetic monitoring. Bedaquiline may contribute to the management of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis by effecting more rapid sputum culture negativity and by preventing acquired resistance to companion drugs.

UI  - 22390880
TI  - First- and second-line anti-tuberculosis drug resistance in Northwest Ethiopia.
AB  - A substantial number of new and previously treated cases harbour MDR-TB. We recommend DST at least for previously treated cases, patients who remain smear-positive at the end of the second month of treatment and patients in close contact with MDR-TB cases. Improved infection control measures need to be implemented in Ethiopia.

UI  - 22379149
TI  - T-cell-based assays on cerebrospinal fluid and PBMCs for rapid diagnosis of TB meningitis in non-HIV patients.
AB  - 

UI  - 22365154
TI  - Tuberculosis control in a highly endemic indigenous community in Brazil.
AB  - In Latin America, indigenous populations have high rates of non-completion of TB treatment and case fatality and have been defined as a priority group for investments. To evaluate TB control, a retrospective cohort study was performed to identify factors predictive of non-completion of treatment and mortality in an indigenous and non-indigenous population between 2002 and 2008 in Dourados, Brazil. A 90% reduction in non-completion of TB treatment was observed in the indigenous population after DOTS (directly observed treatment, short course) implementation (20% vs 2%). In the non-indigenous population, the number of patients not completing TB treatment continued to increase. Non-indigenous TB patients had 4.5 times higher mortality than indigenous TB patients (9% vs 2%). In multivariate analysis, non-indigenous race [odds ratio (OR) 2.33, 95% CI 1.32-4.10] was associated with non-completion of TB treatment, and HIV-positive status (OR 5.58, 95% CI 2.38-13.07) was associated with mortality. Implementation of DOTS in the indigenous populations in Dourados showed a significant reduction in non-completion of TB treatment. Nevertheless, a high rate of TB in children and young adults indicates the continuous transmission and maintenance of the epidemic in this community. Among the non-indigenous population, the TB case fatality rate is closely linked to the HIV prevalence.

UI  - 22362849
TI  - Diagnostic accuracy of a urine lipoarabinomannan strip-test for TB detection in HIV-infected hospitalised patients.
AB  - Lack of point-of-care tests for tuberculosis (TB) result in diagnostic delay, and increased mortality and healthcare-related costs. The urine Determine(TM) TB-LAM point-of-care strip-test was evaluated in 335 prospectively-recruited hospitalised patients with suspected TB-HIV co-infection (group 1) and from 88 HIV-infected hospitalised patients with non-TB diagnoses (group 2). Cut-off point-specific analyses were performed using: 1) a microbiological reference standard (culture positive versus negative); and 2) a composite reference standard (exclusion of patients with clinical-TB from the culture-negative group). Using the microbiological reference and the manufacturer-recommended grade-1 cut-off point, LAM sensitivity and specificity was 66% (95% CI 57-74%). By contrast, using the composite reference sensitivity was 60% (95% CI 53-67%) and specificity improved to 96% (95% CI 89-100%) (p=0.001). The same pattern was seen when the grade-2 cut-off point was used (specificity 75% versus 96%; p=0.01). In group two patients specificity was poor using the grade-1 cut-off point, but improved significantly when the grade-2 cut-off point was used (90% versus 99%; p=0.009). The grade-2 cut-off point also offered superior inter-reader reliability (p=0.002). Sensitivity was highest in those with a CD4 <200 cells per mL. LAM combined with smear-microscopy was able to rule-in TB in 71% of Mycobacterium tuberculosis culture-positive patients. This preliminary study indicates that the LAM strip-test may be a potentially useful rapid rule-in test for TB in hospitalised patients with advanced immunosuppression. The grade 2, but not the manufacturer-recommended grade 1 cut-off point, offered superior rule-in utility and inter-reader reliability. Larger studies to evaluate cut-off points and diagnostic accuracy are urgently required.

UI  - 22341855
TI  - Genetic variants in antioxidant pathway: risk factors for hepatotoxicity in tuberculosis patients.
AB  - Tuberculosis (TB) treatment can cause serious sequelae including adverse effects such as anti-TB drug-induced hepatotoxicity (ATDH). We performed a candidate gene-based association study between single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in 10 genes in the antioxidant pathway and ATDH susceptibility. The subjects comprised 100 Japanese patients with pulmonary TB who received a treatment regimen including isoniazid and rifampicin. Out of them, 18 patients had ATDH. Thirty-four tag SNPs in 10 genes were analyzed by PCR-restriction fragment length polymorphism or PCR-direct DNA sequencing. The frequencies of alleles and genotypes between patients with and without ATDH were compared in three different genetic models. Statistical analyses revealed that a C/C genotype at rs11080344 in NOS2A, a C/C genotype at rs2070401 in BACH1, and a G/A or A/A genotype at rs4720833 in MAFK independently conferred ATDH susceptibility. Remarkably, the association of the latter two tag SNPs with ATDH susceptibility was highly statistically significant (P=0.0006) with an odds ratio of 9.730. This study is the first report to demonstrate that NOS2A, BACH1, and MAFK appear to be genetic determinants of ATDH in Japanese patients with TB. Furthermore, a combination of BACH1 and MAFK polymorphisms may be useful as new biomarkers to identify high-risk Japanese TB patients for ATDH.

UI  - 22335183
TI  - Implementing evidence-based alcohol interventions in a resource-limited setting: novel delivery strategies in Tomsk, Russia.
AB  - Effective implementation of evidence-based interventions in "real-world" settings can be challenging. Interventions based on externally valid trial findings can be even more difficult to apply in resource-limited settings, given marked differences-in provider experience, patient population, and health systems-between those settings and the typical clinical trial environment. Under the auspices of the Integrated Management of Physician-Delivered Alcohol Care for Tuberculosis Patients (IMPACT) study, a randomized, controlled effectiveness trial, and as an integrated component of tuberculosis treatment in Tomsk, Russia, we adapted two proven alcohol interventions to the delivery of care to 200 patients with alcohol use disorders. Tuberculosis providers performed screening for alcohol use disorders and also delivered naltrexone (with medical management) or a brief counseling intervention either independently or in combination as a seamless part of routine care. We report the innovations and challenges to intervention design, training, and delivery of both pharmacologic and behavioral alcohol interventions within programmatic tuberculosis treatment services. We also discuss the implications of these lessons learned within the context of meeting the challenge of providing evidence-based care in resource-limited settings.

UI  - 22333501
TI  - [Bronchoscopic cryotherapy combined with drugs infusion in the treatment of transbronchial tuberculous].
AB  - Combination of cryotherapy and drug infusion through bronchoscope is a simple, safe and effective method to treat transbronchial tuberculous mediastinal lymphadenitis.

UI  - 22330931
TI  - Pharmacokinetics of rifampin in Peruvian tuberculosis patients with and without comorbid diabetes or HIV.
AB  - For drug-compliant patients, poor responses to tuberculosis (TB) treatment might be attributable to subtherapeutic drug concentrations. An impaired absorption of rifampin was previously reported for patients with diabetes mellitus (DM) or HIV. The objectives of this study were to determine whether TB drug pharmacokinetics differed in Peruvian TB patients with DM or HIV. In this cross-sectional study, TB patients, recruited from health centers in Lima, Peru, had blood samples taken at 2 and 6 h after directly observed TB drug ingestion, to determine plasma concentrations of rifampin. Of 105 patients, 50 had TB without a comorbidity, 26 had coexistent DM, and 29 had coexistent HIV. Unexpectedly, the overall median 2- and 6-h levels of rifampin were 1.6 and 3.2 mg/liter, respectively, and the time to the peak concentration was 6 h (slow absorber) instead of 2 h (fast absorber) for 61 patients (62.2%). The geometric mean peak concentration of drug in serum (C(max)) was significantly higher in fast absorbers than in slow absorbers (5.0 versus 3.8 mg/liter; P = 0.05). The rifampin C(max) was significantly lower in male patients than in female patients (3.3 versus 6.3 mg/liter; P < 0.001). Neither slow nor fast absorbers with comorbidities (DM or HIV) had significantly different C(max) results compared to those of TB patients without comorbidities. An analysis of variance regression analysis showed that female gender (P < 0.001) and the time to maximum concentration of drug in serum (T(max)) at 2 h (P = 0.012) were independently correlated with increased exposure to rifampin. Most of this Peruvian study population exhibited rifampin pharmacokinetics different from those conventionally reported, with delayed absorption and low plasma concentrations, independent of the presence of an HIV or DM comorbidity.

UI  - 22327155
TI  - Screening for Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection among healthcare workers in New Zealand: prospective comparison between the tuberculin skin test and the QuantiFERON-TB Gold In-Tube assay.
AB  - A cross-sectional study was used to compare the "QuantiFERON-TB Gold In-tube" assay (QFT-GIT) to the Mantoux tuberculin skin test (TST) as a test for Mycobacterium tuberculosis (TB) infection among healthcare workers in Auckland, New Zealand (NZ). New employees who underwent pre-employment interviews between 1 May 2007 and 18 March 2008 were recruited. Participants completed a detailed questionnaire to assess their risk of TB. All participants were tested by the QFT-GIT and TST. Multiple logistic regression analysis was used to correlate positive results with risk factors for TB and previous BCG. None of the 325 participants were found to have active TB. Approximately 67% had been BCG vaccinated. Positive results for each test were associated with residence in a high incidence country [odds ratio (OR)=6.77; p=0.0005 and 4.48; p<0.0001 for QFT-GIT and TST respectively]. Although positive TST results were associated with "high-risk occupational exposure" to TB [OR=4.13; p=0.016], they were also associated with previous BCG vaccination (OR=5.10; p=0.003). Both tests were associated with at least one well described risk factor for TB infection. The association between positive TST and BCG implies that a high percentage of positive TST results occurred due to non-specific cross-reactivity with BCG. Our findings suggest that among low TB prevalence populations with a high rate of BCG vaccination, the QFT-GIT is more specific than the TST although the superior specificity may be at the expense of some sensitivity.

UI  - 22325844
TI  - Effect of HIV infection on tolerability and bacteriologic outcomes of tuberculosis treatment.
AB  - HIV-infected persons not receiving ART had more adverse events during the intensive phase of anti-tuberculosis treatment, but tolerated treatment well. Failure rates were higher among HIV-infected persons treated with thrice-weekly intensive phase therapy.

UI  - 22323300
TI  - Surgical face masks worn by patients with multidrug-resistant tuberculosis: impact on infectivity of air on a hospital ward.
AB  - Surgical face masks on patients with MDR-TB significantly reduced transmission and offer an adjunct measure for reducing TB transmission from infectious patients.

UI  - 22317983
TI  - Blood levels of pyrazinamide in children at doses administered under the Revised National Tuberculosis Control Program.
AB  - Lower blood concentrations are being attained in children receiving PZA doses under the existing weight band system of RNTCP of India. The weight bands may need to be revised and dose recommendations be based on pharmacokinetic and efficacy data in children.

UI  - 22299414
TI  - Tuberculosis treatment with mobile-phone medication reminders in northern Thailand.
AB  - Thailand's implementation of the Directly Observed Treatment, Short course (DOTS) strategy to increase tuberculosis (TB) control program efficacy has not achieved the World Health Organization (WHO) TB key targets. We defined two TB control models in the study. Patients in Model 1 were treated with a conventional DOTS strategy and in Model 2, patients were treated the same as Model method 1 but were given a phone call reminder to take their medication. Multi-drug resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) and non-MDR-TB patients were randomized into either Model 1 or 2. Treatment outcomes were given as cure rates, completion rates, failure rates or success rates at 18 months in the MDR-TB group and 6 months in the non-MDR-TB group. The sputum conversion rate at 1 month were evaluated for both groups. In the MDR-TB group, the sputum conversion rate was 20% (95% CI 8-45) in Model 1 and 90% (95% CI 73-98) in Model 2 (p < 0.001). In the non-MDR-TB group, the sputum conversion rate was 52% (95% CI 36-70) in Model 1 and 37% (95% CI 22-56) in Model 2 although the difference was not significant (p = 0.221). The Model 2 success rates were significantly higher (73.7%, 96.7%) in both the MDR-TB and non-MDR-TB groups (p < 0.001, p = 0.047). The MDR-TB rate in northern Thailand decreased from 4.1% during April-September 2008 to 1.8% during April-September 2009. Further study of the association between implementation of Model 2 and MDR-TB incidence reduction needs to be carried out.

UI  - 22294252
TI  - [Cervical lymph node tuberculosis in Libreville: epidemiology, diagnosis, and therapy].
AB  - Cervical lymph node tuberculosis is a common ailment. Excisional lymph node biopsy has a twofold interest -therapeutic and diagnostic. It is based on histological examination, which must henceforth be systematic. Tuberculosis is a major HIV-related opportunistic infection and must be screened for or monitored at every HIV check-up.

UI  - 22283900
TI  - Risk factors for mortality in smear-negative tuberculosis suspects: a cohort study in Harare, Zimbabwe.
AB  - HIV-positive smear-negative TB suspects are at high and sustained risk of death. Current guidelines for the management of HIV-infected TB suspects are limited, and this study adds to evidence that specific policies are required to promote earlier HIV and TB diagnosis and reduce delays in ART initiation.

UI  - 22283894
TI  - Bleach treatment of sputum samples aids pulmonary tuberculosis screening among HIV-infected patients in Laos.
AB  - The bleach method is simple, cheap, easy to perform and cost-effective in PLWH. Its implementation in laboratories involved in routine screening of pulmonary TB among PLWH would allow practitioners to start the treatment of this life-threatening co-infection earlier.

UI  - 22283892
TI  - Potential cost-effectiveness of rifampin vs. isoniazid for latent tuberculosis: implications for future clinical trials.
AB  - 4RMP may be a reasonable alternative to 9INH. Costs of a large-scale non-inferiority trial may be offset by subsequent savings.

UI  - 22283887
TI  - Bacteriologic monitoring of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis patients in five DOTS-Plus pilot projects.
AB  - Prolonged treatment for patients with delayed conversion may be beneficial, as 71% of late converters still achieved cure or completed treatment. This has implications for programs with de ned end points for treatment failure. The interval between rst and nal conversion among patients whose initial con- version is not sustained raises concern with respect to the ongoing debate regarding duration of treatment and the definition of cure.

UI  - 22281831
TI  - A phase IIa trial of the new tuberculosis vaccine, MVA85A, in HIV- and/or Mycobacterium tuberculosis-infected adults.
AB  - MVA85A was safe and immunogenic in persons with HIV and/or M.tb infection. These results support further evaluation of safety and efficacy of this vaccine for prevention of TB in these target populations.

UI  - 22278836
TI  - Evaluation of processing methods to equitably aliquot sputa for mycobacterial testing.
AB  - We compared bacillary loads after splitting sputum specimens by chemical (N-acetyl-l-cysteine [NALC]) and mechanical homogenization by vortexing with sterile glass beads. NALC and vortexing with glass beads were equally effective at homogenizing sputum specimens, resulting in an equal distribution of tubercle bacilli in the aliquots.

UI  - 22270244
TI  - Drug resistance patterns in 111 cases of drug-resistant tuberculosis spine.
AB  - It is recommended to do routine biopsy, culture and drug sensitivity testing in all patients of tuberculosis spine to guide selection of appropriate second-line drugs when required. In cases of non availability of drug susceptibility testing despite repeated attempts, it is suggested to use data from large series such as this to plan best empirical chemotherapy protocol.

UI  - 22258485
TI  - Influence of replacing tuberculin skin test with ex vivo interferon  release assays on decision to administer prophylactic antituberculosis antibiotics before anti-TNF therapy.
AB  - Replacing TST with IGRA for determining LTBI allowed the proportion of patients with immune-mediated inflammatory diseases needing prophylactic anti-TB antibiotics before beginning anti-TNF agents to be reduced by half.

UI  - 22252827
TI  - A semimechanistic pharmacokinetic-enzyme turnover model for rifampin autoinduction in adult tuberculosis patients.
AB  - The currently recommended doses of rifampin are believed to be at the lower end of the dose-response curve. Rifampin induces its own metabolism, although the effect of dose on the extent of autoinduction is not known. This study aimed to investigate rifampin autoinduction using a semimechanistic pharmacokinetic-enzyme turnover model. Four different structural basic models were explored to assess whether different scaling methods affected the final covariate selection procedure. Covariates were selected by using a linearized approach. The final model included the allometric scaling of oral clearance and apparent volume of distribution. Although HIV infection was associated with a 30% increase in the apparent volume of distribution, simulations demonstrated that the effect of HIV on rifampin exposure was slight. Model-based simulations showed close-to-maximum induction achieved after 450-mg daily dosing, since negligible increases in oral clearance were observed following the 600-mg/day regimen. Thus, dosing above 600 mg/day is unlikely to result in higher magnitudes of autoinduction. In a typical 55-kg male without HIV infection, the oral clearance, which was 7.76 liters  h at the first dose, increased 1.82- and 1.85-fold at steady state after daily dosing with 450 and 600 mg, respectively. Corresponding reductions of 41 and 42%, respectively, in the area under the concentration-versus-time curve from 0 to 24 h were estimated. The turnover of the inducible process was estimated to have a half-life of approximately 8 days in a typical patient. Assuming 5 half-lives to steady state, this corresponds to a duration of approximately 40 days to reach the induced state for rifampin autoinduction.

UI  - 22241036
TI  - Outcomes of tuberculosis treatment among inpatients and outpatients in the city of So Paulo, Brazil.
AB  - Among inpatients, tuberculosis appears to be more severe and more difficult to diagnose, resulting in lower cure rates and higher mortality rates, than among outpatients. In addition, tuberculosis patients co-infected with HIV have less favorable outcomes.

UI  - 22240217
TI  - [Screening contacts for latent tuberculosis infection (LTBI) using an interferon test in Paris in 2009].
AB  - There are two reasons for screening contacts: one is to identify cases of secondary tuberculosis disease (TB) and the other is to identify new cases of latent tuberculosis infection (LTBI). The tuberculin skin test (TST) and the interferon-gamma-release assay (IGRA) have their limitations when used for the detection of LTBI. They neither allow a definite diagnosis of LTBI nor provide information as to the date of onset. The present study was observational, multi-centre (four centers) and retrospective. Six hundred and one contacts were included. The results of the QFT test showed 88positive (15%). Among the 144index cases, all presented with pulmonary disease and 89cases were sputum positive. In our series, 101contacts belonged to the family circle. The four factors that had a significant positive impact on the result of the QFT test were: increasing age, the region of birth of the contact (high incidence areas), both of which may indicate old infection, while contact within the family and sputum positivity of the index case probably indicate recent infection. Only sputum positivity influenced the decision to treat the LTBI. We propose a tool aimed at facilitating the decision making process in QFT positive cases. Estimation of the duration of LTBI should help the physician to decide on the need for preventative treatment as well as a search for factors that increase the risk of progression to TB disease.

UI  - 22236922
TI  - Comparing early treatment outcomes of MDR-TB in decentralised and centralised settings in KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa.
AB  - In this study, early treatment outcomes suggest that decentralised care for MDR-TB patients is superior to that in a centralised setting.

UI  - 22236919
TI  - High prevalence of drug resistance amongst HIV-exposed and -infected children in a tuberculosis prevention trial.
AB  - An emergence of drug-resistant tuberculosis (DR-TB) in settings affected by human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and tuberculosis (TB) has been observed. We investigated the prevalence of DR-TB in P1041, a multicentered, randomised, double-blind trial which compared the administration of isoniazid (INH) to placebo, in HIV-exposed, non-infected and -infected African infants in the absence of any documented TB exposure. The prevalence of multidrug-resistant TB (MDR-TB) was 22.2% (95%CI 8.5-45.8) and INH monoresistance 5.6% (95%CI 0.1-27.6) among culture-confirmed cases, with all MDR-TB occurring in a single site. There was no association between INH treatment or placebo group, or between HIV infection status, and DR-TB prevalence. There was a high prevalence of DR-TB among HIV-exposed and -infected children. Surveillance of DR-TB among children in high-burden TB-HIV settings should be routine.

UI  - 22236918
TI  - Tuberculosis case finding for vaccine trials in young children in high-incidence settings: a randomised trial.
AB  - Home visits combined with record surveillance detected significantly more cases than record surveillance with a single study-end visit. The TB case profile did not differ significantly between the two groups.

UI  - 22236916
TI  - Factors influencing sex differences in numbers of tuberculosis suspects at diagnostic centres in Pakistan.
AB  - Smaller, local diagnostic centres that are accessible on foot registered more female than male TB suspects. More centralised facilities located further from homes, larger facilities and those with evening opening hours registered more male than female suspects.

UI  - 22236915
TI  - Serial testing of Malaysian health care workers with QuantiFERON-TB Gold In-Tube.
AB  - TB infection control measures need to be strengthened, particularly in the ED, as the incidence of TB was high. Conversion and reversion rates in serial testing were high, and further studies are needed to facilitate its interpretation.

UI  - 22236849
TI  - Intervention to increase detection of childhood tuberculosis in Bangladesh.
AB  - Simple guidelines and training on child TB case detection, together with basic logistics support, can be integrated into the existing National TB Control Programme and improve service delivery to children in TB-endemic areas.

UI  - 22230257
TI  - Risk factors for prolonged treatment of lymph node tuberculosis.
AB  - Lymph node tuberculosis (LNTB) is the most frequent form of extra-pulmonary tuberculosis (TB). Randomised, controlled trials have convincingly demonstrated that 6 months of chemotherapy is sufficient for most drug-susceptible LNTB. We performed a retrospective, multicentric study from 1997 to 2010 to describe factors associated with prolonged anti-tuberculosis treatment in patients with LNTB. Of 126 patients diagnosed with LNTB, 22 (17.5%) were human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infected. The median treatment duration was 9 months (interquartile range, 6-12). Treatment was significantly longer in patients with HIV (P < 0.01), additional sites of TB (P < 0.01) or weight loss (P = 0.04). Factors independently associated with excessively lengthy treatment were HIV co-infection and the presence of other TB foci.

UI  - 22230143
TI  - Isoniazid preventive therapy and 4-year incidence of pulmonary tuberculosis among HIV-infected Thai patients.
AB  - Benefit of IPT plus ART was evident only in the first 6 months of care. These findings suggest that TST-guided IPT should be routinely provided for HIV-infected patients after initial entry into medical care.

UI  - 23700932
TI  - [Antituberculosis properties of methyldioxotetrahydropyrimidine sulfonisonicotinoyl hydrazide].
AB  - Antituberculosis properties of methyldioxotetrahydropyrimidine sulfonisonicotinoyl hydrazide (MSH) registered in Russia under the name of tubosan of the class of immunotropic agents were investigated with the use of 78 clinical isolates of Mycobacterium tuberculosis (MBT). In concentration of 60 or 80 mcg/ml the drug showed significant antituberculosis activity. The effect of MSH on drug susceptible MBT was bactericidal. The effect of MSH on the drug resistant MBT (with the isoniazid MIC of 1 mcg/ml) was bactericidal in 75% of the cases and bacteriostatic in 25% of the cases. With the use of MBT resistant to isoniazid in a concentration of 10 mcg/ml the antituberculosis effect was observed in 47% of the cases. The complex treatment of 102 patients with destructive forms of tuberculosis in a daily dose of 800-1200 mg for 2-5 months provided significant clinicoroentgenologic positive dynamics of the process in 75% of the patients. The destructive cavities closed up in 30% of the patients and reduction of the destruction dimentions up to 0.5-2 cm was stated in 45% of the patients. In the control group of 40 patients insignificant dynamics of the destructive processes was observed only in 40% of the patients. Satisfactory tolerability of the drug was registered. The immunity status parameters improved with increase of the total number of T-lymphocytes and phagocytosis indices. The study showed that MSH was efficient in complex therapy of tuberculosis patients allow for increased number of cases with drug resistant tuberculosis.

UI  - 22205814
TI  - Comprehensive multicenter evaluation of a new line probe assay kit for identification of Mycobacterium species and detection of drug-resistant Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
AB  - We evaluated a new line probe assay (LiPA) kit to identify Mycobacterium species and to detect mutations related to drug resistance in Mycobacterium tuberculosis. A total of 554 clinical isolates of Mycobacterium tuberculosis (n = 316), Mycobacterium avium (n = 71), Mycobacterium intracellulare (n = 51), Mycobacterium kansasii (n = 54), and other Mycobacterium species (n = 62) were tested with the LiPA kit in six hospitals. The LiPA kit was also used to directly test 163 sputum specimens. The results of LiPA identification of Mycobacterium species in clinical isolates were almost identical to those of conventional methods. Compared with standard drug susceptibility testing results for the clinical isolates, LiPA showed a sensitivity and specificity of 98.9% and 97.3%, respectively, for detecting rifampin (RIF)-resistant clinical isolates; 90.6% and 100%, respectively, for isoniazid (INH) resistance; 89.7% and 96.0%, respectively, for pyrazinamide (PZA) resistance; and 93.0% and 100%, respectively, for levofloxacin (LVX) resistance. The LiPA kit could detect target species directly in sputum specimens, with a sensitivity of 85.6%. Its sensitivity and specificity for detecting RIF-, PZA-, and LVX-resistant isolates in the sputum specimens were both 100%, and those for detecting INH-resistant isolates were 75.0% and 92.9%, respectively. The kit was able to identify mycobacterial bacilli at the species level, as well as drug-resistant phenotypes, with a high sensitivity and specificity.

UI  - 22192272
TI  - Tuberculosis, bacillus Calmette-Gurin vaccination, and allergic disease: findings from the International Study of Asthma and Allergies in Childhood Phase Two.
AB  - Some have suggested a protective effect of tuberculosis (TB) infection on allergic disease risk, but few studies have examined the association between the two. We therefore investigated whether TB disease and bacillus Calmette-Gurin (BCG) vaccination in early life protect against allergic disease. Information on allergic disease symptoms, past TB disease, and BCG vaccination as well as potential confounding factors was gathered by parental questionnaire from a randomly selected subset of 23,901 8- to 12-yr-old schoolchildren in 20 centers in both developed and developing countries. Children were also physically examined for flexural eczema and underwent skin prick testing. Pooled odds ratio (OR) estimates and corresponding 95% confidence intervals (CIs) across study centers were calculated, using random effects meta-analysis models. There were 245 (1.0%) reported cases of TB disease, and 66.3% (15,857) of all children received the BCG vaccine. Asthma, hay fever, and flexural eczema symptoms in the past year as well as flexural eczema on skin examination were all positively linked to a history of TB (adjusted pooled OR 'wheeze in the past year' = 2.27, 95% CI 1.52-3.41; adjusted pooled OR 'hay fever symptoms in the past year' = 2.23, 1.22-4.09; adjusted pooled OR 'flexural eczema symptoms in the past year' = 3.21, 2.01-5.12; adjusted pooled OR 'flexural eczema on skin examination' = 4.04, 1.71-9.56). Even higher risk estimates were seen for severe asthma and eczema symptoms [adjusted OR = 4.02 (2.17-7.47) and adjusted OR = 6.31 (2.19-18.17), respectively]. There was no significant association between past TB and skin prick test positivity (adjusted pooled OR = 1.32, 0.87-2.02). BCG vaccination during the first year of life was also not associated with any of the allergy outcomes. We found a uniform positive association between TB and all allergic disease outcomes, including eczema on skin examination. As this was a cross-sectional study, it is unclear whether this positive association is attributable to a causal relationship, and further longitudinal studies are required.

UI  - 22174748
TI  - Dexamethasone and long-term outcome of tuberculous meningitis in Vietnamese adults and adolescents.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT01317654.

UI  - 22168028
TI  - [The significance of the new lung cupola formation during surgical interventions in patients with destructive pulmonary tuberculosis].
AB  - The results of surgical treatment of patients, suffering destructive pulmonary tuberculosis, using the right pulmonum upper lobe or the left pulmonum C(I)-C(III) resection with (the main group--35 patients) or without (control group--38 patients) formation of a new pulmonary cupola, were analyzed. There was proved, that the procedure of a pulmonary cupola formation after doing the right pulmonum upper lobectomy or the left pulmonum C(I)-C(III) resection, using suturing of the C(VI) top to the middle lobe (on the right side) or up to lingular segments (on the left side) permits to reduce significantly (by 10.3%) the postoperative complications rate and to improve the operative intervention efficacy by 7.6%.

UI  - 22162558
TI  - Direct drug susceptibility testing of Mycobacterium tuberculosis for rapid detection of multidrug resistance using the Bactec MGIT 960 system: a multicenter study.
AB  - Conventional indirect drug susceptibility testing of Mycobacterium tuberculosis with liquid medium is well established and offers time-saving and reliable results. This multicenter study was carried out to evaluate if drug susceptibility testing (DST) can be successfully carried out directly from processed smear-positive specimens (direct DST) and if this approach could offer substantial time savings. Sputum specimens were digested, decontaminated, and concentrated by the laboratory routine procedure and were inoculated in Bactec MGIT 960 as well as Lowenstein-Jensen (LJ) medium for primary isolation. All the processed specimens which were acid-fast bacterium (AFB) smear positive were used for setting up direct DST for isoniazid (INH) and rifampin (RIF). After the antimicrobial mixture of polymyxin B, amphotericin B, nalidixic acid, trimethoprim, and azlocillin (PANTA) was added, the tubes were entered in the MGIT 960 instrument using the 21-day protocol (Bactec 960 pyrazinamide [PZA] protocol). Results obtained by direct DST were compared with those obtained by indirect DST to establish accuracy and time savings by this approach. Of a total of 360 AFB smear-positive sputum specimens set up for direct DST at four sites in three different countries, 307 (85%) specimens yielded reportable results. Average reporting time for direct DST was 11 days (range, 10 to 12 days). The average time savings by direct DST compared to indirect DST, which included time to isolate a culture and perform DST, was 8 days (range, 6 to 9 days). When results of direct DST were compared with those of indirect DST, there was 95.1% concordance with INH and 96.1% with rifampin. These findings indicate that direct DST with the Bactec MGIT 960 system offers further time savings and is a quick method to reliably detect multidrug resistance (MDR) cases.

UI  - 22161162
TI  - Discordance among commercially available diagnostics for latent tuberculosis infection.
AB  - For most positive results the three tests identified different people, suggesting that in low-prevalence populations most discordant results are caused by false-positives. False-positive tuberculin skin test reactions associated with reactivity to nontuberculous mycobacteria and bacille Calmette-Gurin vaccination may account for a proportion of test discordance observed.

UI  - 22150035
TI  - Three months of rifapentine and isoniazid for latent tuberculosis infection.
AB  - The use of rifapentine plus isoniazid for 3 months was as effective as 9 months of isoniazid alone in preventing tuberculosis and had a higher treatment-completion rate. Long-term safety monitoring will be important. (Funded by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; PREVENT TB ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00023452.).

UI  - 22143808
TI  - Evaluation of performance of quantiferon assay and tuberculin skin test in end stage renal disease patients receiving hemodialysis.
AB  - The agreement between QFT-G and TST test is fair and there is no significant difference in both cut off values of TST in screening of LTBI in ESRD cases receiving HD.

UI  - 22136739
TI  - Global isoniazid resistance patterns in rifampin-resistant and rifampin-susceptible tuberculosis.
AB  - Following the World Health Organization's endorsement of the Xpert MTB/RIF assay, which rapidly and simultaneously diagnoses tuberculosis (TB) and detects resistance to rifampin (RMP), the question arises to what extent RMP resistance is an adequate marker for multidrug-resistant TB (MDR-TB). A retrospective analysis of data from >81 countries and subnational settings demonstrated that >40% of RMP-resistant isolates from new TB cases did not display resistance to isoniazid (INH) in settings with relatively low MDR-TB prevalence (one third of all countries and subnational settings). Results indicated the need for INH susceptibility testing in addition to RMP susceptibility testing.

UI  - 22136146
TI  - Visual function in patients on ethambutol therapy for tuberculosis.
AB  - Visual acuity, contrast sensitivity, and multifocal ERG are sensitive tests to detect ethambutol toxicity in subclinical stages and hence very useful tools for monitoring patients under ethambutol therapy for ocular toxicity.

UI  - 22129971
TI  - Antidiabetes drugs correlate with decreased risk of lung cancer: a population-based observation in Taiwan.
AB  - Patients with DM are not at increased risk for the development of lung cancer, but the use of antidiabetes drugs would considerably decrease the risk. In this cohort, male sex, age, pulmonary tuberculosis, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease were all associated with an increased risk of lung cancer, consistent with findings in the literature and indicative of the validity of our study.

UI  - 22114687
TI  - Antiretroviral treatment cohort analysis using time-updated CD4 counts: assessment of bias with different analytic methods.
AB  - The midpoint method presents a simple option to reduce bias in time-updated CD4+ analysis, particularly at low CD4 cell counts and rapidly increasing counts after ART initiation.

UI  - 22111396
TI  - Multi-drug resistant tuberculosis: experiences of two tertiary referral centres.
AB  - Multi-drug resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) is associated with increased morbidity and mortality compared to drug-sensitive disease. Although MDR-TB is infrequent in Ireland, cases continue to be diagnosed in both Irish and foreign-born people. We conducted a clinical audit of 13 MDR-TB patients treated in two tertiary referral centers, the Mercy Hospital, Cork and St James's Hospital, Dublin between 2004 and 2009. The median age was 37 years. Eight patients (61.5%) were foreign-born, five (38.5%) were Irish-born. Seven patients (54%) have now stopped treatment; 6 (86%) were treated successfully and one (14%) defaulted. Mycobacterium tuberculosis isolates were resistant to a median of seven drugs. Eight patients (61.5%) developed ototoxicity from long-term aminoglycoside use. Our patients' treatment outcomes compare favourably with international reports despite a high degree of drug resistance. However, the high incidence of otoxicity is concerning.

UI  - 22108776
TI  - The influence of tuberculosis treatment on efavirenz clearance in patients co-infected with HIV and tuberculosis.
AB  - Unexpectedly, concomitant rifampicin-containing tuberculosis treatment reduced apparent EFV clearance with a corresponding increase in EFV exposure. While the reasons for this interaction require further investigation, cytochrome P450 2B6 polymorphisms in the population studied may provide some explanation.

UI  - 22099419
TI  - Snapshot of Quantiferon TB gold testing in Northern Mexico.
AB  - Most people infected with Mycobacterium tuberculosis have an asymptomatic condition named latent tuberculosis. These people do not have bacilli in the corporal secretions and are hard to diagnose by conventional laboratory tests. Diagnosis of latent tuberculosis infection (LTBI) in Mxico is based on the tuberculin skin test (TST). This test has disadvantages, principally because the vaccine containing the Bacille Calmette-Gurin (BCG) is applied to 99% of this population and causes false positive TST outcomes. Recently, interferon-gamma release assays (IGRA) have been demonstrated to be a good test to detect latent tuberculosis with equal or better sensitivity to TST and without interference from BCG. However, in Mxico the IGRA are an uncommon test due to the higher cost compared to TST. The main objective of this work was demonstrate the potential utility of the Quantiferon TB() gold in tube (QTB()-GIT) test to detect latent TB in a population from northern Mxico. Samples from 106 subjects with close contact, or without contact, with actively infected TB patients were tested to detect LTBI. Our results show a significant difference between individuals in close contact with active TB patients (39.7%) compared to those without contact (3.2%), p < 0.01. The concordance between TST and QTB()-GIT was poor ( = 0.31). Our preliminary results show that the QTB()-GIT has better capacity than TST to detect latent tuberculosis infection.

UI  - 22094639
TI  - Diagnostic features associated with culture of Mycobacterium tuberculosis among young children in a vaccine trial setting.
AB  - Wheezing and lower chest retraction, consistent with intrathoracic airway obstruction; chest radiography suggestive of pulmonary tuberculosis; and Mantoux diameter were predictive of positive MTB culture. These variables should be considered for inclusion in composite clinical end point definitions for infant TB vaccine trials. Several clinical features, commonly used for TB diagnosis in older children, were not associated with positive MTB culture among children younger than 2 years.

UI  - 22093812
TI  - Pilot assessment of supply chains for pharmaceuticals and medical commodities for malaria, tuberculosis and HIV infection in Ethiopia.
AB  - To obtain preliminary data on the drug supply management system in Ethiopia, selected facilities were assessed for the availability of essential drugs and commodities for malaria, TB and HIV. Of the 48 surveyed hospitals and health centers, 9 (19%), 9 (19%) and 10 (21%) did not have malaria, TB or HIV drugs, respectively. Similarly, of 27 health posts, 9 (33%) and 6 (22%) did not have rapid diagnostic tests and antimalarial drugs, respectively. The findings indicated an inadequate availability of essential drugs and commodities in the surveyed facilities as well as weaknesses in human resources and training. Assessments of commodity supply chains to ensure operational program success and impact are important.

UI  - 22088321
TI  - Rapid DNA extraction for specific detection and quantitation of Mycobacterium tuberculosis DNA in sputum specimens using Taqman assays.
AB  - Rapid tuberculosis (TB) detection is critical for disease control, and further quantitation of Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) in sputum is valuable for epidemiological and clinical studies. We evaluated a simple, robust and cost-efficient in-house DNA extraction and downstream Taqman approach for detection and quantitation of Mtb genomes from sputum of newly-diagnosed TB patients and non-TB controls. DNA was extracted using guanidine isothiocyanate and silica-based spin columns in less than 2 h, stored frozen, and Taqman assays were used to detect Mtb with IS6110 and quantify it targeting RD1 and IS1081. The Taqmans had a sensitivity >95% in 108 culture-confirmed TB patients and specificity of 100% in 43 non-TB controls. Genome counts were correlated with the Mycobacterial Growth Indicator Tubes' (MGIT) time-to-detection values (1/TTD  1000; rho = 0.66; p < 0.001) in 91 TB patients (33 excluded with MGIT contamination). This linear relationship was nearly identical between mycobacteria isolated from sputum and H37Rv Mtb grown in-vitro to its log phase. TB treatment between 3 and 7 days was associated with lower 1/TTD  1000 values but not with genome counts. Together, our protocol provides rapid, specific, inexpensive and quantitative detection of Mtb DNA in fresh or stored sputa making it a robust tool for prompt TB diagnosis, and with potential use for clinical and epidemiologic studies.

UI  - 22071384
TI  - The influence of bacille Calmette-Guerin vaccine strain on the immune response against tuberculosis: a randomized trial.
AB  - There are significant differences in the immune response induced by different BCG vaccine strains in newborn infants. Immunization with BCG-Denmark or BCG-Japan induced higher frequencies of mycobacterial-specific polyfunctional and cytotoxic T cells and higher concentrations of Th1 cytokines. These findings have potentially important implications for global antituberculosis immunization policies and future tuberculosis vaccine trials.

UI  - 22071248
TI  - Effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of first BCG vaccination against tuberculosis in school-age children without previous tuberculin test (BCG-REVAC trial): a cluster-randomised trial.
AB  - UK Department for International Development, National Health Foundation.

UI  - 22042558
TI  - Characterization of Th1- and Th2-type immune response in human multidrug-resistant tuberculosis.
AB  - Multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) has become a lethal global threat. Insights into the immune regulation of MDR-TB are urgently needed for the development of new treatments; however, the T cell response to an MDR-TB infection in human remains unclear. In the present study, the proportion of Th1 and Th2 cell subsets and the level of related T cell subset cytokines in peripheral blood were investigated. We detected that an MDR-TB infection resulted in suppressed Th1 and Th2 cell activation, which was more remarkable in patients with MDR-TB than that in drug-sensitive tuberculosis (DS-TB) sufferers when compared to healthy controls (HCs). In addition, MDR-TB infection down-regulated the expression of IFN-, IL-2, and IL-10, and up-regulated IL-4, IL-6, and TNF- expression. Our data suggest that the disturbance between protective and pathogenic effects induced by the immunosuppression of Th1- and Th2-type responses is a substantial characteristic of MDR-TB infections.

UI  - 22039966
TI  - A randomized trial of multivitamin supplementation in children with tuberculosis in Tanzania.
AB  - Multivitamin supplementation for a short duration of eight weeks improved the hematological profile of children with tuberculosis, though it didn't have any effect on weight gain, the primary outcome of the trial. Larger studies with a longer period of supplementation are needed to confirm these findings and assess the effect of multivitamins on clinical outcomes including treatment success and growth failure. CLINICALTRIALS.GOV IDENTIFIER: NCT00145184.

UI  - 22037774
TI  - Performance of the GenoType MTBDRPlus assay in routine settings: a multicenter study.
AB  - Former Soviet Union countries including the Baltic States (Latvia, Lithuania, and Estonia) are hot spots for an emerging epidemic of drug resistant tuberculosis (TB). As a part of the development of a co-ordinated network of centers for diagnostic trials across Eastern Europe we conducted a retrospective multicenter analysis of the performance of the GenoType MTBDRPlus assay for TB identification and susceptibility to isoniazid (INH) and rifampicin (RIF) in routine settings. A total of 1,045 primary samples, 1045TB cultures derived from these specimens and 306 separate M. tuberculosis isolates tested in 2007-2010 at four participating sites (Tartu, Estonia; Riga, Latvia; Vilnius, Lithuania; and Samara, Russian Federation) were included in the analysis. The pooled sensitivity and specificity values for RIF and INH were 95.3% and 95.5%, 89.9 and 87.1%, respectively; there were no statistically significant variations in performance across sites. The proportion of multidrug resistant (MDR) strains in the collections ranged from 21.8% (in Estonia) to 55.9% (in Russia). In a routine non-trial context, the assay reliably detected both rifampicin and isoniazid resistance. The absence of statistically significant differences between sites suggested that the comparable performance obtained using these assays has helped demonstrate the formation of a successful diagnostic trial network.

UI  - 22036788
TI  - Association of Mycobacterium tuberculosis genotypes and clinical and epidemiological features - a multi-center study in Taiwan.
AB  - Genotypes of Mycobacterium tuberculosis (MTB) are related to the geographic origin of the patients and population migration. The relationship between genotypes of MTB and clinical presentations has mainly focused on transmission of multi-drug resistant MTB strain in population. This study aimed to investigate the molecular epidemiology and dynamic change of MTB genotypes in Taiwan, and their association with clinical presentation among patients with pulmonary tuberculosis. A multi-center, two-year study which enrolled 516 patients with 516 MTB isolates was conducted, including: (1) 254 isolates from northern Taiwan; (2) 38 isolates from mid-western Taiwan; (3) 211 isolates from southern Taiwan; and (4) 13 isolates from the east coast of Taiwan. The isolates were genotyped with spoligotyping and standardized 12-loci-MIRU-VNTR method. The results showed Beijing/Beijing-like family was the major genotype of MTB in the northern (58%), eastern (53%), and southern (33%) regions. The second most widely spread lineage were the EAI-Manila (20% in the west and south) and Haarlem family (13-27% in the south, west, and east). According to the cluster analysis of 12-MIRU-VNTR genotypes, there were differences in distribution of MTB genotype between the northern and southern regions, and a temporal relationship between isolation year and 12-MIRU-VNTR genotype especially in loci 26 and 39 might exist. Furthermore, some patients with cavity lesions on chest films were associated with a cluster of Beijing family MTB strains, which can be defined by cluster analysis of 12-MIRU-VNTR genotype. However, the results of 12-loci-MIRU-VNTR genotyping in a longitudinal study should be interpreted with caution due to its short term instability. Further investigations of different molecular methodologies are necessary.

UI  - 22032421
TI  - HLA and MICA genes in patients with tuberculosis in Brazil.
AB  - Major histocompatibility complex (MHC) genes have been investigated because of their crucial role in the defense against pathogens and their high degree of polymorphism. We performed a case-control study to assess a genetic association of MHC genes with susceptibility to tuberculosis (TB). The allelic lineages HLA-A*02 and B*18 were significantly less frequent in TB patients (n = 112, 44.6% women) than in controls (n = 224, 51.5% women): 18.8% vs 26.5%; odds ratio (OR) = 0.64; P = 0.037 and 2.7% vs 6.9%; OR = 0.37; P = 0.041. The negative association with haplotype HLA-B*18-MICA*018 (2.3% patients vs 6.4% controls; OR = 0.34; P = 0.035) was significant as a consequence of strong linkage disequilibrium (D' = 0.827 for patients and 0.923 for controls). These findings suggest a trend toward protection of the HLA-A*02 and HLA-B*18 alleles.

UI  - 22010915
TI  - Integration of antiretroviral therapy with tuberculosis treatment.
AB  - Early initiation of ART in patients with CD4+ T-cell counts of less than 50 per cubic millimeter increased AIDS-free survival. Deferral of the initiation of ART to the first 4 weeks of the continuation phase of tuberculosis therapy in those with higher CD4+ T-cell counts reduced the risks of IRIS and other adverse events related to ART without increasing the risk of AIDS or death. (Funded by the U.S. President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief and others; SAPIT ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00398996.).

UI  - 22010914
TI  - Timing of antiretroviral therapy for HIV-1 infection and tuberculosis.
AB  - Overall, earlier ART did not reduce the rate of new AIDS-defining illness and death, as compared with later ART. In persons with CD4+ T-cell counts of less than 50 per cubic millimeter, earlier ART was associated with a lower rate of new AIDS-defining illnesses and death. (Funded by the National Institutes of Health and others; ACTG A5221 ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00108862.).

UI  - 22010913
TI  - Earlier versus later start of antiretroviral therapy in HIV-infected adults with tuberculosis.
AB  - Initiating ART 2 weeks after the start of tuberculosis treatment significantly improved survival among HIV-infected adults with CD4+ T-cell counts of 200 per cubic millimeter or lower. (Funded by the French National Agency for Research on AIDS and Viral Hepatitis and the National Institutes of Health; CAMELIA ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT01300481.).

UI  - 22008772
TI  - Frequency and type of microbiological monitoring of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis treatment.
AB  - Monthly culture is usually recommended to monitor treatment of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB). As mycobacterial laboratory capacity is limited in many settings, TB programs need evidence to decide whether monthly cultures are necessary compared to other approaches. We simulated three alternative monitoring strategies (culture every 2 or 3 months, and monthly smears alone) in a cohort of MDR-TB patients in Estonia, Latvia, Philippines, Russia and Peru from 2000 to 2004. This retrospective analysis illustrated that less frequent testing delays confirmation of bacteriological conversion. This would prolong intensive treatment, hospitalization and respiratory isolation, increasing cost and toxicity. After conversion, less frequent testing could delay diagnosis of possible treatment failure.

UI  - 22008766
TI  - Completion of isoniazid preventive therapy and survival in HIV-infected, TST-positive adults in Tanzania.
AB  - Completion of IPT is associated with increased survival in HIV-infected adults with CD4 counts  200 cells/ l and a positive TST.

UI  - 22008757
TI  - Educational inequalities in tuberculosis mortality in sixteen European populations.
AB  - Socio-economic inequalities in TB mortality exist in all European countries. Firm political commitment is required to reduce inequalities in the social determinants of TB incidence. Targeted public health measures are called for to improve access to treatment of vulnerable groups and thereby reduce TB mortality.

UI  - 22000352
TI  - Multidrug-resistant tuberculosis, People's Republic of China, 2007-2009.
AB  - We conducted a case-control study to investigate risk factors for multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR TB) in the People's Republic of China. Genotyping analysis was used to estimate the percentage of cases from recent transmission among 100 MDR TB case-patients hospitalized during April 2007-July 2009. Molecular subtyping of isolates showed that 41% of MDR TB strains clustered. Beijing genotype was found in 94% of the MDR TB isolates and 79% of the pan-susceptible isolates. In multivariate analysis, MDR TB was independently associated with Beijing genotype, retreatment for TB, symptoms lasting >3 months before first evaluation at the hospital, lack of health insurance, and being a farmer (vs. being a student). MDR TB was associated with Beijing genotype and lower socioeconomic status. A large percentage of MDR TB cases seemed to result from recent transmission. Early detection, effective treatment, and infection control measures for MDR TB are needed to reduce transmission.

UI  - 21985569
TI  - High caseload of childhood tuberculosis in hospitals on Java Island, Indonesia: a cross sectional study.
AB  - In response to the high caseload and gross under-reporting of childhood TB cases, the National TB Program should give higher priority for childhood TB case management in designated DOTS hospitals. In addition, an international guidance on childhood TB recording and reporting and improved diagnostics and standardized classification is required.

UI  - 21968358
TI  - Pharmacokinetics of isoniazid, rifampin, and pyrazinamide in children younger than two years of age with tuberculosis: evidence for implementation of revised World Health Organization recommendations.
AB  - The World Health Organization (WHO) recently issued revised first-line antituberculosis (anti-TB) drug dosage recommendations for children. No pharmacokinetic studies for these revised dosages are available for children <2 years. The aim of the study was to document the pharmacokinetics of the first-line anti-TB agents in children <2 years of age comparing previous and revised WHO dosages of isoniazid (INH; 5 versus 10 mg/kg/day), rifampin (RMP; 10 versus 15 mg/kg/day), and pyrazinamide (PZA; 25 versus 35 mg/kg/day) and to investigate the effects of clinical covariates, including HIV coinfection, nutritional status, age, gender, and type of tuberculosis (TB), and the effect of NAT2 acetylator status. Serum INH, PZA, and RMP levels were prospectively assessed in 20 children <2 years of age treated for TB following the previous and the revised WHO dosage recommendations. Samples were taken prior to dosing and at 0.5, 1.5, 3, and 5 h following dosing. The maximum drug concentration in serum (C(max)), the time to C(max) (t(max)), and the area under the concentration-time curve (AUC) were calculated. Eleven children had pulmonary and 9 had extrapulmonary TB. Five were HIV infected. The mean C(max) (g/ml) following the administration of previous/revised dosages were as follows: INH, 3.19/8.11; RMP, 6.36/11.69; PZA, 29.94/47.11. The mean AUC (gh/ml) were as follows: INH, 8.09/20.36; RMP, 17.78/36.95; PZA, 118.0/175.2. The mean C(max) and AUC differed significantly between doses. There was no difference in the t(max) values achieved. Children less than 2 years of age achieve target concentrations of first-line anti-TB agents using revised WHO dosage recommendations. Our data provided supportive evidence for the implementation of the revised WHO guidelines for first-line anti-TB therapy in young children.

UI  - 21966356
TI  - Can interferon-gamma or interferon-gamma-induced-protein-10 differentiate tuberculosis infection and disease in children of high endemic areas?
AB  - Children with confirmed and probable TB and contacts were more likely to have TST+ (78.6%, 59.3% and 54.1%, respectively) than children with unlikely TB (28.7%) and controls (12.8%) (p<0.001). Children with confirmed TB (59.3%) and contacts (44.7%) were more likely to have INF+ than children with probable (37.6%) or unlikely TB (28.1%) and controls (13.1%) (p<0.001). IP10 concentrations were higher in INF+ children independently of TST (p<0.001). There was no difference between IP10 concentrations of children with confirmed TB and contacts (p=0.8) and children with and without HIV (p>0.1). INF and IP10 can identify children with TB infection and disease, but cannot differentiate between the two conditions. HIV status did not affect the expression of IP10.

UI  - 21965225
TI  - Linezolid: an effective, safe and cheap drug for patients failing multidrug-resistant tuberculosis treatment in India.
AB  - Linezolid is identified as an effective drug with which to treat patients failing multidrug-resistant (MDR)-tuberculosis (TB) treatment. However, cost and safety are the concerns. In India, the average price of a 600-mg pill of linezolid is less than one US dollar, much cheaper than most of the third-line drugs. A prospective study of 29 MDR-TB treatment failure patients (16 with laboratory-proven extensively drug-resistant (XDR)-TB and the remaining 13 with MDR-TB with resistance to any quinolone but sensitive to injectables) was carried out in Delhi, India. All patients received daily unsupervised therapy with linezolid, one injectable agent, one fluoroquinolone and two or more other drugs. Patients received a median of six anti-mycobacterial agents. Besides linezolid, capreomycin, moxifloxacin, levofloxacin and amoxycillin-clavulanic acid were used in 41.4%, 58.6%, 41.4%, and 79.3% of patients. Out of a total of 29 patients, 89.7% patients achieved sputum smear and culture conversion; 72.4% showed interim favourable outcome; 10.3% died, 6.8% failed and 10.3% patients defaulted. Linezolid had to be stopped in three (10.3%) patients due to adverse reactions. The outcome of treatment of 16 XDR-TB patients was comparable to the other 13 MDR-TB patients. Linezolid is an effective, cheap and relatively safe drug for patients failing MDR-TB treatment, including those with confirmed XDR-TB.

UI  - 21943533
TI  - [Pleural puncture biopsy in the aetiological diagnosis of pleurisy].
AB  - The PPB is easy to perform at a low cost. It permits the diagnosis of tuberculous and neoplastic pleurisy, particularly in low income countries with a high prevalence of TB/HIV.

UI  - 21943384
TI  - The SCIDOTS Project: evidence of benefits of an integrated tobacco cessation intervention in tuberculosis care on treatment outcomes.
AB  - This study provides evidence that connecting TB-tobacco treatment strategy is significant among TB patients who are smokers. The findings suggest that the integrated approach may be beneficial and confer advantages on short-term outcomes and possibly on future lung health of TB patients who quit smoking. This study may have important implications on health policy and clinical practice related to TB management among tobacco users.

UI  - 21931714
TI  - A multi-center study to evaluate the performance of phage amplified biologically assay for detecting TB in sputum in the pulmonary TB patients.
AB  - PhaB method is a rapid and sensitive method for detecting TB in sputum in PTB patients; especially for the diagnosis of smear-negative PTB, PhaB method is obviously more sensitive than L-J culture method.

UI  - 21931124
TI  - Diagnosing latent tuberculosis infection in haemodialysis patients: T-cell based assay (T-SPOT.TB) or tuberculin skin test?
AB  - Usage of T-SPOT.TB in HD patients with negative TST may enhance diagnosis of LTBI.

UI  - 21914951
TI  - The advantage of using IS6110-PCR vs. BACTEC culture for rapid detection of Mycobacterium tuberculosis from pleural fluid in northern India.
AB  - Pleural tuberculosis is an extra-pulmonary disease which poses a diagnostic dilemma. The detection of mycobacterial DNA by IS6110 polymerase chain reaction (PCR) in clinical samples is a promising approach for the rapid diagnosis of pleural tuberculosis infections. The aim of the present study is to evaluate the advantage of using IS6110 PCR for rapid detection of Mycobacterium tuberculosis (M. tuberculosis) from pleural fluid. 102 clinically suspected cases of pleural tuberculosis cases were enrolled from inwards and outwards of the Department of Pulmonary Medicine at Chattrapati Shahuji Maharaj Medical University, Lucknow from April 2007 to April 2010. The pleural fluids were processed at the Mycobacteriology Laboratory of Department of Microbiology at Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences, Lucknow, Pleural fluid samples were processed and examined by Ziehl Neelsen (ZN) staining for acid fast bacilli and detection of M. tuberculosis by BACTEC culture. We applied IS6110 PCR to detect specific M. tuberculosis complex in pleural fluid samples. We found a significant difference in sensitivity of different tests, acid fast bacilli were detected in 17 (16.6%) samples by ZN Staining , 47 (46.1%) by BACTEC culture and using IS6110 PCR, 62 (60.7%) were positive for IS6110 PCR for M. tuberculosis. We found IS6110 PCR was much more sensitive than ZN staining and BACTEC culture. IS6110 PCR detection of M. tuberculosis may be very useful in cases that are highly suspect as pleural tuberculosis and those that are negative for AFB and culture. IS6110 PCR may gain an immense prospective to better clinicians ability to improve diagnosis of pleural tuberculosis.

UI  - 21907605
TI  - Tuberculosis and diabetes in Guyana.
AB  - This study clearly highlights that diabetes and HIV are frequent in Guyanese TB patients. Routine screening of TB patients for diabetes and diabetic patients for TB should be speedily implemented. The National TB Programme should work closely with the diabetes clinics so that TB patients who are diabetics are optimally managed.

UI  - 21902071
TI  - British HIV Association national audit on the management of patients co-infected with tuberculosis and HIV.
AB  - This audit aims to compare UK management of tuberculosis (TB)/HIV co-infection with recommended practice and to describe local care arrangements. Services providing HIV care were invited to complete a survey of care arrangements and to review case notes of HIV positive patients aged over 16 who started therapy for active TB between October 2007 and April 2008. Corresponding TB services, if separate, were invited to complete a similar survey. Responses were received from 124 of 170 HIV services, and 18 corresponding TB services. Data were obtained for 236 coinfected patients. Despite some incomplete data, this audit yielded useful findings. Many positive smear results were unacceptably delayed. The TB therapy completion rate fell short of the chief medical officer's (CMO's) 85% target. Culture confirmation of pulmonary TB met the CMO's 65% target. A high number of patients were diagnosed with HIV during investigation of TB. Contrary to current guidelines, many services do not routinely test TB patients for HIV.

UI  - 21890776
TI  - Efficacy and safety of once-daily nevirapine- or efavirenz-based antiretroviral therapy in HIV-associated tuberculosis: a randomized clinical trial.
AB  - Compared with a regimen of didanosine, lamivudine, and EFV, a regimen of once-daily didanosine, lamivudine, and NVP was inferior and was associated with more frequent virologic failure and death. Clinical Trials Registration. NCT00332306.

UI  - 21886778
TI  - Treatment of tuberculosis in a region with high drug resistance: outcomes, drug resistance amplification and re-infection.
AB  - In Abkhazia, a region with high prevalence of drug resistant TB, the use of individualized MDR-TB treatment regimens resulted in poor treatment outcomes and XDR-TB amplification. Nosocomial transmission of MDR-TB emphasizes the importance of infection control in hospitals.

UI  - 21879296
TI  - The value of F-FDG-PET/CT in the differential diagnosis of solitary pulmonary nodules in areas with a high incidence of tuberculosis.
AB  - PET has a high false-positive rate in areas with a high incidence of TB; combined PET and CT (PET/CT) can improve the diagnostic accuracy in the differentiation of an SPN.

UI  - 21877185
TI  - Speciation analysis of bromine-containing drug metabolites in feces samples from a human in vivo study by means of HPLC/ICP-MS combined with on-line isotope dilution.
AB  - The aim of this work was speciation analysis of metabolites in feces samples collected within a clinical study during which a bromine-containing anti-tuberculosis drug (TMC207) was administered to patients with multi-drug resistant tuberculosis infection. Owing to slow elimination of the drug, no (14)C label was used within this study. Quantification of the bromine species was accomplished using high performance liquid chromatography coupled to inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry (HPLC/ICP-MS) in combination with on-line isotope dilution (on-line ID), while structural elucidation of the species was performed using HPLC coupled to electrospray ionization-mass spectrometry. The ICP-MS-based method developed shows a good intra- and inter-day reproducibility (relative standard deviation = 3.5%, N = 9); the limit of detection (1.5 mg TMC207 L(-1)) is of the same order of magnitude as that for HPLC/radiodetection; the dynamic range of the method covers more than two orders of magnitude. Furthermore, the column recovery was demonstrated to be quantitative (recoveries between 90.6% and 99.5%). Based on the excellent figures of merit, the "cold" HPLC/ICP-MS approach could be deployed for the actual human in vivo metabolism study, such that exposure of the human volunteers to the (14)C radiolabel was avoided.

UI  - 21849285
TI  - A randomized trial of punctuated antiretroviral therapy in Ugandan HIV-seropositive adults with pulmonary tuberculosis and CD4 T-cell counts of  350 cells/L.
AB  - Short-term antiretroviral therapy during tuberculosis treatment in patients with CD4T-cell counts of >350 cells/L was safe and associated with clinical benefits.

UI  - 21838716
TI  - Patient delay determinants for patients with suspected tuberculosis in Yogyakarta province, Indonesia.
AB  - Accessibility of the healthcare provider was the main determinant of patient delay, but the role of psychosocial factors cannot be fully excluded. Urban and suburban areas have relatively good access to (private) health care, hence the short delay. Thus, future studies should be focussed on extending the DOTS strategy to the private sector.

UI  - 21833904
TI  - Granulomatous mediastinal adenopathy: can endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration differentiate between tuberculosis and sarcoidosis?
AB  - EUS-FNA offers a high diagnostic yield for the differential diagnosis of tuberculosis and sarcoidosis that have not been diagnosed by conventional methods.

UI  - 21818180
TI  - Screening for HIV-associated tuberculosis and rifampicin resistance before antiretroviral therapy using the Xpert MTB/RIF assay: a prospective study.
AB  - In this population of individuals at high risk of TB, intensive screening using the Xpert MTB/RIF assay increased case detection by 45% compared with smear microscopy, strongly supporting replacement of microscopy for this indication. However, despite the ability of the assay to rapidly detect rifampicin-resistant disease, the specificity for drug-resistant TB was sub-optimal.

UI  - 21814190
TI  - Effect of rifampicin and CYP2B6 genotype on long-term efavirenz autoinduction and plasma exposure in HIV patients with or without tuberculosis.
AB  - We performed a prospective comparative study to examine, from a pharmacogenetics perspective, the effect of rifampicin (RIF) on long-term efavirenz (EFV) autoinduction and kinetics. In a study population of patients with HIV receiving EFV with RIF (arm 2, n = 54) or without RIF (arm 1, n = 128 controls), intraindividual and interindividual plasma EFV and 8-hydroxyefavirenz levels were compared at weeks 4 and 16 of EFV therapy. In arm 2, RIF was initiated 4 weeks before starting EFV. In controls (arm 1), the plasma EFV was significantly lower whereas 8-hydroxyefavirenz was higher at week 16 as compared to week 4. By contrast, there were no significant differences in plasma EFV and 8-hydroxyefavirenz concentrations over time in arm 2. At week 4, the plasma EFV concentration was significantly lower in arm 2 as compared to arm 1, but no significant differences were observed by week 16. When stratified by CYP2B6 genotype, significant differences were observed only with respect to CYP2B6*1/*1 genotypes. Ours is the first report of the CYP2B6 genotype-dependent effect of RIF on long-term EFV autoinduction.

UI  - 21813622
TI  - Utility of endobronchial ultrasound-guided transbronchial needle aspiration in patients with tuberculous intrathoracic lymphadenopathy: a multicentre study.
AB  - EBUS-TBNA is a safe and effective first-line investigation in patients with tuberculous intrathoracic lymphadenopathy.

UI  - 21813328
TI  - Effects of a food supplement rich in arginine in patients with smear positive pulmonary tuberculosis--a randomised trial.
AB  - In tuberculosis (TB), the production of nitric oxide (NO) is confirmed but its importance in host defense is debated. Our aim was to investigate whether a food supplement rich in arginine could enhance clinical improvement in TB patients by increased NO production. Smear positive TB patients from Gondar, Ethiopia (n = 180) were randomized to a food supplementation rich in arginine (peanuts, equivalent to 1 g of arginine/day) or with a low arginine content (wheat crackers, locally called daboqolo) during four weeks. The primary outcome was cure rate according to the WHO classification and secondary outcomes were sputum smear conversion, weight gain, sedimentation rate, reduction of cough and chest X-ray improvement as well as levels of NO in urine (uNO) or exhaled air (eNO) at two months. There was no effect of the intervention on the primary outcome (OR 1.44, 95% CI: 0.69-3.0, p = 0.39) or secondary outcomes. In the subgroup analysis according to HIV status, peanut supplemented HIV+/TB patients showed increased cure rate (83.8% (31/37) vs 53.1% (17/32), p < 0.01). A low baseline eNO (<10 ppb) in HIV+/TB patients was associated with a decreased cure rate. We conclude that nutritional supplementation with a food supplement rich in arginine did not have any overall clinical effect. In the subgroup of HIV positive TB patients, it significantly increased the cure rate and as an additional finding in this subgroup, low initial levels of NO in exhaled air were associated with a poor clinical outcome but this needs to be confirmed in further studies.

UI  - 21810750
TI  - Treatment outcomes of isoniazid-resistant tuberculosis patients, Western Cape Province, South Africa.
AB  - We report treatment outcomes from a retrospective cohort of patients with isoniazid-monoresistant tuberculosis in rural South Africa. Sixteen percent of patients had poor outcomes, 61% of whom progressed to multidrug-resistant tuberculosis. These data reveal the need for early identification and aggressive follow-up of isoniazid monoresistance to increase treatment success.

UI  - 21801277
TI  - Burden of obstructive lung disease in a rural setting in the Philippines.
AB  - The prevalence COPD in a rural community in Nueva Ecija, Philippines was 20.8% for GOLD Stage I or higher, and 16.7% for GOLD Stage II or higher. In addition to smoking history, the use of firewood for cooking, working on a farm and a history of tuberculosis were significantly associated with fixed airflow obstruction, as assessed by spirometry.

UI  - 21799772
TI  - Polyantigenic interferon- responses are associated with protection from TB among HIV-infected adults with childhood BCG immunization.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT0052195.

UI  - 21799728
TI  - Outcomes of multi-drug resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) among a cohort of South African patients with high HIV prevalence.
AB  - In this MDR-TB treatment program patients with HIV infection and low weight had higher hazards of death. Overall treatment outcomes were poor. Efforts to improve treatment for MDR-TB are urgently needed.

UI  - 21781986
TI  - Diagnostic performance of T-SPOT.TB for extrapulmonary tuberculosis according to the site of infection.
AB  - The diagnostic performance of the blood T-SPOT.TB differs among patients with various clinical manifestations of E-TB.

UI  - 21765809
TI  - LED fluorescence microscopy for the diagnosis of pulmonary tuberculosis: a multi-country cross-sectional evaluation.
AB  - Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN53339491. Please see later in the article for the Editors' Summary.

UI  - 21765808
TI  - A multi-country non-inferiority cluster randomized trial of frontloaded smear microscopy for the diagnosis of pulmonary tuberculosis.
AB  - Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN53339491. Please see later in the article for the Editors' Summary.

UI  - 21765364
TI  - Diagnostic accuracy of a urine lipoarabinomannan enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for screening ambulatory HIV-infected persons for tuberculosis.
AB  - The sensitivity of urine LAM testing is inadequate to replace mycobacterial culture. In contrast to prior research on the urine LAM, this study was conducted among less sick, ambulatory HIV-infected patients presenting for routine care.

UI  - 21764384
TI  - Accuracy of the Xpert MTB/RIF test for the diagnosis of pulmonary tuberculosis in children admitted to hospital in Cape Town, South Africa: a descriptive study.
AB  - National Institutes of Health, the National Health Laboratory Service Research Trust, the Medical Research Council of South Africa, and Wellcome Trust.

UI  - 21762235
TI  - Emergency department presentation of children with tuberculosis.
AB  - The point of entry to health care for many children with TB is the ED. The more protean manifestations of TB in children can decrease the utility of screening tools developed to identify adults with TB. While TB in adults often is a microbiologic diagnosis, childhood TB often is an epidemiologic diagnosis. Therefore, questioning caregivers about TB risk factors in the family may identify a higher percentage of children with possible TB.

UI  - 21745684
TI  - Reduced T(H)1/T(H)17 CD4 T-cell numbers are associated with impaired purified protein derivative-specific cytokine responses in patients with HIV-1 infection.
AB  - Selective loss of T(H)1/T(H)17 cells may be a risk factor for the development of active tuberculosis in patients with HIV-1 infection and might be a useful biomarker in the development of tuberculosis vaccines.

UI  - 21740675
TI  - Acute respiratory distress syndrome caused by miliary tuberculosis: a multicentre survey in South Korea.
AB  - ARDS caused by miliary TB was associated with a high in-hospital mortality rate, with SOFA score on the day of ARDS diagnosis being a valuable prognostic indicator.

UI  - 21740671
TI  - Quality of induced sputum using a human-powered nebuliser in a mobile human immunodeficiency virus testing service in South Africa.
AB  - The HPN induced good quality sputum within 3 min. The device operates without electricity and is suitable not only for remote clinics with unreliable electricity, but also for mobile services and community-based intensified tuberculosis (TB) case finding. Further research needs to investigate the yield of TB in sputum samples induced by the HPN.

UI  - 21740668
TI  - Predictors of discordant tuberculin skin test and QuantiFERON-TB Gold In-Tube results in various high-risk groups.
AB  - QFT-GIT may be an improvement over the TST for diagnosing LTBI in foreign-born and older persons, and may be as useful as the TST in HIV-infected persons. The sensitivity of both tests may be low in HIV-infected persons.

UI  - 21736395
TI  - Efficacy of adalimumab in patients with Crohn's disease and failure to infliximab therapy: a clinical series.
AB  - according to these data, adalimumab provides a clinical and analytical improvement in patients with CD and failure to previous therapy with infliximab.

UI  - 21732834
TI  - Primary isoniazid prophylaxis against tuberculosis in HIV-exposed children.
AB  - Primary isoniazid prophylaxis did not improve tuberculosis-disease-free survival among HIV-infected children or tuberculosis-infection-free survival among HIV-uninfected children immunized with BCG vaccine. Despite access to antiretroviral therapy, the burden of tuberculosis remained high among HIV-infected children. (Funded by the National Institutes of Health and Secure the Future; ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00080119.).

UI  - 21732833
TI  - New regimens to prevent tuberculosis in adults with HIV infection.
AB  - On the basis of the expected rates of tuberculosis in this population of HIV-infected adults, all secondary prophylactic regimens were effective. Neither a 3-month course of intermittent rifapentine or rifampin with isoniazid nor continuous isoniazid was superior to 6 months of isoniazid. (Funded by the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases and others; ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00057122.).

UI  - 21731675
TI  - Factors associated with negative direct sputum examination in Asian and African HIV-infected patients with tuberculosis (ANRS 1260).
AB  - One novel finding of this study is the association between concomitant respiratory tract infection and negative sputum AFB, particularly in Cambodia. This finding suggests that repeating AFB testing in AFB-negative patients should be conducted when broad spectrum antibiotic treatment does not lead to complete recovery from respiratory symptoms. In HIV-infected patients with a CD4 cell count below 50/mm3 without an identified cause of pneumonia, systematic AFB direct sputum examination is justified because of atypical clinical features (without cavitation) and high pulmonary mycobacterial burden.

UI  - 21729372
TI  - The effect of energy-protein supplementation on weight, body composition and handgrip strength among pulmonary tuberculosis HIV-co-infected patients: randomised controlled trial in Mwanza, Tanzania.
AB  - Undernutrition is common among smear-positive pulmonary tuberculosis (PTB+) patients. Micronutrient supplementation may improve treatment outcomes, but it is unclear whether additional energy-protein would be beneficial. The present study aimed to assess the effect of energy-protein supplementation on weight, body composition and handgrip strength against a background of high micronutrient intake during tuberculosis (TB) treatment. A total of 377 PTB+ patients co-infected with HIV were randomly allocated one or six biscuits daily for 60d during TB treatment. Weight, arm fat area, arm muscle area and handgrip strength were assessed at baseline and 2 and 5 months. There were no effects on any outcome at 2 months, but energy-protein supplementation was associated with a 13 (95% CI -01, 28)kg marginally significant gain in handgrip strength at 5 months. However, after 2 months, energy-protein supplementation led to a weight gain of 19 (95% CI 01, 37)kg among patients with cluster of differentiation 4 (CD4) counts 350cells/l, but not among patients with low CD4 counts (-02kg; 95% CI -13, 08, Pinteraction=003). Similarly, at 5 months, energy-protein supplementation led to a 23 (95% CI 06, 41)kg higher handgrip strength gain among patients with CD4 counts <350cells/l, but not in those with high CD4 counts (Pinteraction=004). In conclusion, energy-protein supplementation to PTB+ HIV-co-infected patients had no overall effects on weight and body composition, but was associated with marginally significant gain in handgrip strength. More research is needed to develop an effective supplement, before it is recommended to TB programmes.

UI  - 21713351
TI  - [Clinical, epidemiological and microbiological characteristics of a cohort of pulmonary tuberculosis patients in Cali, Colombia].
AB  - Delay in tuberculosis diagnosis was identified as a risk factor for treatment compliance failure. The study population had similar baseline epidemiologic characteristics to those described in other cohort studies.

UI  - 21712242
TI  - Determination of rifabutin dosing regimen when administered in combination with ritonavir-boosted atazanavir.
AB  - The benefits to HIV/TB co-infected patients receiving rifabutin 150 mg three times weekly or every other day may outweigh the risks of neutropenia observed here in non-HIV-infected subjects, provided that patients on combination therapy will be closely monitored for safety and tolerability.

UI  - 21706943
TI  - Hepatotoxicity in patients co-infected with tuberculosis and HIV-1 while receiving non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor-based antiretroviral therapy and rifampicin-containing anti-tuberculosis regimen.
AB  - To evaluate the rate of and risk factors for hepatotoxicity in tuberculosis (TB) and human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) co-infected patients while receiving non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI)-based antiretroviral therapy (ART) and a rifampicin (RMP)-containing anti-TB regimen. We analyzed data from the N2R study which was an open label, randomized, comparative trial comparing treatment outcomes between 71 TB/HIV-1 co-infected patients receiving efavirenz (EFV)-based and nevirapine (NVP)-based ART; all of whom were receiving RMP-containing anti-TB treatment. Demographic data, liver function test, CD4 cell count, plasma HIV-1 RNA, hepatitis B surface antigen and anti-hepatitis C virus antibody were collected before initiating ART (week 0). Liver enzymes and total bilirubin levels were monitored at 6 weeks, 12 weeks and 24 weeks after ART initiation. All patients were followed until TB therapy was completed. Of 142 patients, 8 patients were excluded. Among the remaining 134 patients, the mean+/-SD age was 36.8+/-8.6 years and 67.2% were male. Severe hepatotoxicity (grade 3 or 4) developed in 4 patients (2.9%); 3 patients (4.6%) in the NVP group and 1 patient (1.4%) in the EFV group. Severe hyperbilirubinemia (grade 3 or 4) occurred in 7 patients (5.2%); 5 patients (7.7%) in the NVP group and 2 patients (2.9%) in the EFV group. Grade 1 or 2 hepatotoxicity occurred in 34 patients (31.4%). Hepatitis C virus co-infection (adjusted OR 3.03; 95%CI 1.26-7.29) was an independent risk factor associated with grade 1-4 hepatotoxicity (p=0.013). Monitoring of hepatotoxicity should be considered in TB/HIV-1 co-infected patients who are infected with HCV and receiving NVP.

UI  - 21706246
TI  - Diagnostic value of interferon- gamma release assays (QuantiFERON-TB Gold In Tube) in childhood tuberculosis.
AB  - Less specificity of this assay may be due to high endemicity of tuberculosis. However, further studies are recommended.

UI  - 21700609
TI  - Endobronchial ultrasound-guided lymph node biopsy with transbronchial needle forceps: a pilot study.
AB  - One limitation of endobronchial ultrasound-guided transbronchial needle aspiration (EBUS-TBNA) is the size of the available needles, frequently yielding only cells for cytological examination. The aim of this pilot study was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of newly developed needle forceps to obtain tissue for the histological diagnosis of enlarged mediastinal lymph nodes. Patients with enlarged, positron emission tomography (PET)-positive lymph nodes were included. The transbronchial needle forceps (TBNF), a sampling instrument combining the characteristics of a needle (bevelled tip for penetrating through the bronchial wall) with forceps (two serrated jaws for grasping tissue) was used through the working channel of the EBUS-TBNA scope. Efficacy and safety was assessed. 50 patients (36 males and 14 females; mean age 51 yrs) with enlarged or PET-positive lymph nodes were included in this pilot study. In 48 (96%) patients penetration of the bronchial wall was possible and in 45 patients tissue for histological diagnosis was obtained. In three patients TBNF provided inadequate material. For patients in whom the material was adequate for a histological examination, a specific diagnosis was established in 43 (86%) out of 50 patients (nonsmall cell lung cancer: n=24; small cell lung cancer: n=7; sarcoidosis: n=4; Hodgkin's lymphoma: n=4; tuberculosis: n=2; and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma: n=2).No clinically significant procedure-related complications were encountered. This study demonstrated that EBUS-TBNF is a safe procedure and provides diagnostic histological specimens of mediastinal lymph nodes.

UI  - 21698103
TI  - A controlled trial of the knowledge impact of tuberculosis information leaflets among staff supporting substance misusers: pilot study.
AB  - Further randomized controlled trials are required to confirm the observed increase in short-term gain in knowledge and to investigate whether knowledge gain leads to change in health status.

UI  - 21697532
TI  - Immunogenicity of the tuberculosis vaccine MVA85A is reduced by coadministration with EPI vaccines in a randomized controlled trial in Gambian infants.
AB  - New tuberculosis vaccines are urgently needed to curtail the current epidemic. MVA85A is a subunit vaccine that could enhance immunity from BCG vaccination. To determine MVA85A safety and immunogenicity as well as interactions with other routine vaccines administered in infancy, we randomized healthy 4-month-old infants who had received Bacille Calmette-Gurin at birth to receive Expanded Program on Immunization (EPI) vaccines alone, EPI and MVA85A simultaneously, or MVA85A alone. Adverse events were monitored throughout. Blood samples obtained before vaccination and at 1, 4, and 20 weeks after vaccination were used to assess safety and immunogenicity. The safety profile of both low and standard doses was comparable, but the standard dose was more immunogenic and therefore was selected for the second stage of the study. In total, 72 (first stage) and 142 (second stage) infants were enrolled. MVA85A was safe and well tolerated and induced a potent cellular immune response. Coadministration of MVA85A with EPI vaccines was associated with a significant reduction in MVA85A immunogenicity, but did not affect humoral responses to the EPI vaccines. These results provide important information regarding timing of immunizations, which is required for the design of infant efficacy trials with MVA85A, and suggest that modifications to the standard EPI schedule may be required to incorporate a new generation of T cell-inducing vaccines.

UI  - 21685540
TI  - Efavirenz and rifampicin in the South African context: is there a need to dose-increase efavirenz with concurrent rifampicin therapy?
AB  - EFV concentrations were significantly increased in the EFV 800 mg group on RFN. There was no significant decrease in EFV concentrations when on RFN in the 600 mg group. Dose escalation of EFV 600 mg to 800 mg is not required during concomitant TB therapy in South Africa.

UI  - 21682970
TI  - Early bactericidal activity of delamanid (OPC-67683) in smear-positive pulmonary tuberculosis patients.
AB  - Delamanid at all dosages was safe, well tolerated and demonstrated significant exposure-dependent EBA over 14 days, supporting further investigation of its pharmacokinetics and anti-tuberculosis activity.

UI  - 21677070
TI  - Evaluation of oral antiseptic rinsing before sputum collection to reduce contamination of mycobacterial cultures.
AB  - To assess whether rinsing with oral antiseptics before sputum collection would reduce contamination of mycobacterial cultures, 120 patients with suspected tuberculosis were randomly assigned to rinse with chlorhexidine or cetylpyridinium mouthwash before collection. The culture contamination rate was significantly lower after rinsing with chlorhexidine before collection, especially for cultures grown in MGIT medium.

UI  - 21673035
TI  - Randomized trial of BCG vaccination at birth to low-birth-weight children: beneficial nonspecific effects in the neonatal period?
AB  - Though early BCG did not reduce infant mortality significantly, it may have a beneficial effect in the neonatal period. This could be important for public health because BCG is often delayed in low-income countries.

UI  - 21672910
TI  - Targeted screening for pediatric conditions with the CHICA system.
AB  - Many screening tests are risk-based, not universal, leaving physicians to determine who should have a further workup. This can be a time-consuming process. The authors demonstrated that the CHICA system performs well in assessing risk automatically for TB and iron-deficiency anemia.

UI  - 21670926
TI  - Physician adherence to guidelines for tuberculosis and HIV care in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
AB  - Physicians are substantially more compliant with HIV monitoring and PCP prophylaxis than with TB prophylaxis guidelines. Efforts to improve TB control in HIV patients are badly needed.

UI  - 21669029
TI  - Programmatic management of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis: models from three countries.
AB  - It is recommended that all programs providing MDR-TB treatment address these six areas during program development and implementation.

UI  - 21654305
TI  - Yield of diagnostic laparoscopy in abdominal tuberculosis: is it worth attempting?
AB  - Diagnostic laparoscopy is an efficient and reliable diagnostic tool for patients suspected with abdominal tuberculosis.

UI  - 21642291
TI  - Multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) treatment in the UK: a study of injectable use and toxicity in practice.
AB  - There is local variation in both the choice of injectable agent and in ototoxicity screening practices. Long-term morbidity from injectable treatment is significant even in this well-resourced setting, and the data suggest capreomycin might be associated with less ototoxicity when compared with amikacin. There is a need for more high-quality clinical data to inform future guidelines for treatment and monitoring.

UI  - 21632522
TI  - High prevalence of subclinical tuberculosis in HIV-1-infected persons without advanced immunodeficiency: implications for TB screening.
AB  - The prevalence of subclinical TB disease was 8.5% (95% CI 5.1% to 13.0%) (n=18; median days to culture positivity 17&emsp14;days), with 22% of patients being smear-positive. Spoligotyping showed a diverse variety of genotypes with all paired isolates being of the same spoligotype, effectively excluding cross-contamination. 56% of patients followed up developed symptoms 3 days to 2 months later. All were well and still in care 6-12 months after TB diagnosis; 60% were started on ART. A positive tuberculin skin test (OR 4.96, p=0.064), low CD4 count (OR 0.996, p=0.06) and number of years since HIV diagnosis (OR 1.006, p=0.056) showed trends towards predicting TB disease. Conclusion This study found a high prevalence but good outcome (retained in care) of subclinical TB disease in HIV-1-infected persons. The results suggest that, in high HIV/TB endemic settings, a positive HIV-1 test should prompt TB screening by sputum culture irrespective of symptoms, particularly in those with a positive tuberculin skin test, longer history of HIV infection and low CD4 count. Operational difficulties in resource-constrained settings with respect to screening with TB culture highlight the need for rapid and affordable point-of-care tests to identify persons with clinical and subclinical TB disease.

UI  - 21631429
TI  - Response to HAART in treatment-naive HIV-infected patients with a prior diagnosis of tuberculosis or other opportunistic infections.
AB  - We aimed to evaluate immunological, virological and clinical response to HAART, as well as all-cause mortality, in treatment-naive patients with a diagnosis of tuberculosis (TB) in the prior 6 months, compared to subjects with another AIDS-defining illness (ADI) or event-free individuals in an open, prospective and multicenter hospital-based cohort of HIV-infected naive adults (2004-2008). All cause mortality rates were calculated by Cox regression models. Among 4407 patients, 2400 (54.5%) started HAART: 110 (4.6%) had had previous TB and 414 (17.3%) another ADI. Median time from TB diagnosis to inititation of HAART was 53 days (IQR: 25.75-83.25), and for other ADI was 22 days (IQR: 8-42). Overall, 151 (6.3%) patients developed a new ADI during follow-up; 63% reached virological suppression and 69.4% had increases of 50 CD4+/l, at 6 months. No statistically significant differences were found according to a previous history of TB or another ADI. Overall, 85 subjects died in 4031 person-years of follow-up with a mortality rate of 2.1 (95%CI: 1.7-2.6). When compared to subjects who started HAART in the absence of a previous ADI (HR 1), a prior diagnosis of an ADI other than TB was significantly associated with an increased risk of death. (HR 1.6; 95%CI: 1.1-2.3), but not a diagnosis of TB (HR 1.15; 95%CI: 0.5-2.5). In conclusion, a previous diagnosis of TB or another ADI before HAART did not compromise short-term virological and immunological response to treatment. A prior diagnosis of an ADI different to TB significantly increased all cause mortality.

UI  - 21628697
TI  - The role of aspirin in childhood tuberculous meningitis.
AB  - Arterial stroke is the main cause of poor outcome in childhood tuberculous meningitis. Aspirin has an antithrombotic action at low dose and anti-ischemic and anti-inflammatory properties, which are dose-related. The aim of the study was to explore the possible benefits of aspirin in children with tuberculous meningitis. A total of 146 consecutive children with a diagnosis of probable tuberculous meningitis were studied. Patients were randomized into 3 groups: (1) placebo group, (2) low-dose aspirin group, and (3) high-dose aspirin group. Twenty-nine additional patients who received aspirin before admission were excluded from the randomized study, but continued on low-dose aspirin. Aspirin, irrespective of dose, did not show any significant benefit regarding morbidity (hemiparesis and developmental outcome) and mortality. Aspirin was well tolerated, but 1 death was probably related to aspirin. The fact that the outcome of the high-dose aspirin group compared favorably with the other treatment groups despite younger age and more severe neurological involvement at baseline needs further investigation.

UI  - 21623039
TI  - Outcome of standardized treatment for patients with MDR-TB from Tamil Nadu, India.
AB  - Outcomes of this small group of MDR-TB patients treated with the RNTCP's STR is encouraging in this setting. Close attention needs to be paid to ensure adherence, and to the timely recognition and treatment of ADRs.

UI  - 21616115
TI  - Evidence of an effect of BCG revaccination on incidence of tuberculosis in school-aged children in Brazil: second report of the BCG-REVAC cluster-randomised trial.
AB  - BCG revaccination is still used in some tuberculosis endemic countries. Until now, the little evidence available suggested that BCG revaccination confers very limited additional protection, although there was no information on whether protection depends on the setting and age of revaccination, or if protection increases with time since vaccination. Here we report on an extended follow up of the BCG-REVAC trial, a cluster randomised trial conducted in the Brazilian cities Salvador and Manaus including over 200,000 children aged 7-14 years aimed to evaluate the efficacy of BCG revaccination in children who had received neonatal BCG vaccination. With the extended follow-up (9 years) and the additional cases accrued we now have enough power to report vaccine efficacy separately for the two cities (with different distances from Equator and presumably different prevalence of non-tuberculosis mycobacteria), and by age at vaccination and clinical form. The overall vaccine efficacy was 12% (-2 to 24%) as compared to 9% (-16 to 29%) for the 5-year follow up. Vaccine efficacy was higher in Salvador (19%, 3 to 33%) than in Manaus (1%, -27 to 27%) with the highest vaccine efficacy in children from Salvador aged <11 years at revaccination (33%, 3 to 54%). The findings are in line with the hypothesis that BCG vaccination offers higher efficacy in low NTMb prevalence, and show that revaccination with BCG can offer weak protection in selected subgroups.

UI  - 21615934
TI  - Screening and brief interventions for hazardous and harmful alcohol use among patients with active tuberculosis attending primary care clinics in South Africa: a cluster randomized controlled trial protocol.
AB  - PACTR: PACTR201105000297151.

UI  - 21606542
TI  - Dose-finding study of the novel tuberculosis vaccine, MVA85A, in healthy BCG-vaccinated infants.
AB  - MVA85A was safe and induced robust, polyfunctional, durable CD4 and CD8 T-cell responses in infants. These data support efficacy evaluation of MVA85A to prevent tuberculosis in infancy. Clinical Trials Registration.NCT00679159.

UI  - 21605366
TI  - Incidence, risk factors and mortality of tuberculosis in Danish HIV patients 1995-2007.
AB  - Incidence of TB still associated with conventional risk factors as country of birth, low CD4 count and route of HIV infection while HAART reduces the risk substantially. The mortality in this patient population is high in the first two years after TB diagnosis.

UI  - 21596680
TI  - Timing of initiation of antiretroviral therapy in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)--associated tuberculous meningitis.
AB  - Immediate ART initiation does not improve outcome in patients presenting with HIV-associated tuberculous meningitis. There were significantly more grade 4 adverse events in the immediate ART arm, supporting delayed initiation of ART in HIV-associated tuberculous meningitis. Clinical Trials Registration. ISRCTN63659091.

UI  - 21575299
TI  - Risk of tuberculosis among contacts of isoniazid-resistant and isoniazid-susceptible cases.
AB  - The baseline prevalence of tuberculous infection was substantially higher in contacts of INH-resistant than INH-susceptible patients, but the incidence of tuberculous disease over a 15-year follow-up was similar in the two series, and twice as high as in non-contacts.

UI  - 21575292
TI  - Results at 30 months of a randomised trial of two 8-month regimens for the treatment of tuberculosis.
AB  - These results confirm earlier findings demonstrating the inferiority of the INH+EMB-based regimens to the standard 6-month regimen. The WHO has withdrawn its recommendation of these regimens.

UI  - 21575187
TI  - Mortality and associated risk factors in a cohort of tuberculosis patients treated under DOTS programme in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.
AB  - Most of the patients were died at the end of treatment period. This underlines the need for devising a mechanism of standardizing the existing DOTS programme and nutritional support for underweight patients for better clinical and treatment outcome.

UI  - 21558457
TI  - The pharmacogenetics of NAT2 enzyme maturation in perinatally HIV exposed infants receiving isoniazid.
AB  - The roles of the NAT2 genotype and enzyme maturation on isoniazid pharmacokinetics were investigated in South African infants with perinatal HIV exposure enrolled in a randomized, double-blind, controlled trial of isoniazid for prevention of tuberculosis disease and latent infection. Plasma concentration-time measurements of isoniazid from 151 infants (starting at 3-4 months of age) receiving isoniazid 10 to 20 mg/kg/d orally during the course of the 24-month study were incorporated in a population analysis along with NAT2 genotype, body weight, age, and sex. The results showed a different NAT2 enzyme maturation profile for each of the 3 acetylation groups, with the 70-kg body weight-normalized typical apparent clearance for the fast and intermediate acetylators increasing from 14.25 L/h and 10.88 L/h at 3 months of age to 22.84 L/h and 15.58 L/h at 24 months of age, respectively, with no significant change in the apparent clearance of the slow group during this period. A hypothesis is proposed to explain the genotype-dependent enzyme maturation processes for the NAT2 enzyme.

UI  - 21542929
TI  - Validation of brief screening tools for depressive and alcohol use disorders among TB and HIV patients in primary care in Zambia.
AB  - The CES-D and AUDIT showed high discriminatory ability in measuring MINI-defined current MDD and AUD respectively. They are suitable mental health screening tools for use among TB and ART patients in primary care in Zambia.

UI  - 21524761
TI  - [Comparative performance of QuantiFERON()-TB Gold IT versus tuberculin skin test among contact investigations for latent tuberculosis infection].
AB  - IGRAs are an accurate indicator of LTI, providing a more specific way of diagnostic and reducing the number of subjects to be treated. QF appears to be a valuable public health tool with potential advantages over the PPD and improving resources.

UI  - 21514236
TI  - Screening of immigrants in the UK for imported latent tuberculosis: a multicentre cohort study and cost-effectiveness analysis.
AB  - Medical Research Council and Wellcome Trust.

UI  - 21511783
TI  - Outreach education for integration of HIV/AIDS care, antiretroviral treatment, and tuberculosis care in primary care clinics in South Africa: PALSA PLUS pragmatic cluster randomised trial.
AB  - Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN 24820584.

UI  - 21511317
TI  - Implementation and outcomes of an active defaulter tracing system for HIV, prevention of mother to child transmission of HIV (PMTCT), and TB patients in Kibera, Nairobi, Kenya.
AB  - Retention of patients in long term care and adherence to treatment regimens are a constant challenge for HIV, prevention of mother to child transmission of HIV (PMTCT), and TB programmes in sub-Saharan Africa. This study describes the implementation and outcomes of an active defaulter tracing system used to reduce loss to follow-up (LTFU) among HIV, PMTCT, TB, and HIV/TB co-infected patients receiving treatment at three Mdecins Sans Frontires clinics in the informal settlement of Kibera, Nairobi, Kenya. Patients are routinely contacted by a social worker via telephone, in-person visit, or both very soon after they miss an appointment. Patient outcomes identified through 1066 tracing activities conducted between 1 April 2008 and 31 March 2009 included: 59.4% returned to the clinic, 9.0% unable to return to clinic, 6.3% died, 4.7% refused to return to clinic, 4.5% went to a different clinic, and 0.8% were hospitalized. Fifteen percent of patients identified for tracing could not be contacted. LTFU among all HIV patients decreased from 21.2% in 2006 to 11.5% in 2009. An active defaulter tracing system is feasible in a resource poor setting, solicits feedback from patients, retains a mobile population of patients in care, and reduces LTFU among HIV, PMTCT, and TB patients.

UI  - 21507477
TI  - Feasibility, diagnostic accuracy, and effectiveness of decentralised use of the Xpert MTB/RIF test for diagnosis of tuberculosis and multidrug resistance: a multicentre implementation study.
AB  - Foundation for Innovative New Diagnostics, Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, European and Developing Countries Clinical Trials Partnership (TA2007.40200.009), Wellcome Trust (085251/B/08/Z), and UK Department for International Development.

UI  - 21502621
TI  - Randomized pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic comparison of fluoroquinolones for tuberculous meningitis.
AB  - Tuberculous meningitis (TBM) is the most lethal form of tuberculosis, and new treatments that improve outcomes are required. We randomly assigned adults with TBM to treatment with standard antituberculosis treatment alone or in combination with ciprofloxacin (750 mg/12 h), levofloxacin (500 mg/12 h), or gatifloxacin (400 mg/24 h) for the first 60 days of therapy. Fluoroquinolone concentrations were measured with plasma and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) specimens taken at predetermined, randomly assigned times throughout treatment. We aimed to describe the pharmacokinetics of each fluoroquinolone during TBM treatment and evaluate the relationship between drug exposure and clinical response over 270 days of therapy (Controlled Trials number ISRCTN07062956). Sixty-one patients with TBM were randomly assigned to treatment with no fluoroquinolone (n = 15), ciprofloxacin (n = 16), levofloxacin (n = 15), or gatifloxacin (n = 15). Cerebrospinal fluid penetration, measured by the ratio of the plasma area under the concentration-time curve from 0 to 24 h (AUC(0-24)) to the cerebrospinal fluid AUC(0-24), was greater for levofloxacin (median, 0.74; range, 0.58 to 1.03) than for gatifloxacin (median, 0.48; range, 0.47 to 0.50) or ciprofloxacin (median, 0.26; range, 0.11 to 0.77). Univariable and multivariable analyses of fluoroquinolone exposure against a range of different treatment responses revealed worse outcomes among patients with lower and higher plasma and CSF exposures than for patients with intermediate exposures (a U-shaped exposure-response). TBM patients most likely to benefit from fluoroquinolone therapy were identified, along with exposure-response relationships associated with improved outcomes. Fluoroquinolones add antituberculosis activity to the standard treatment regimen, but to improve outcomes of TBM, they must be started early, before the onset of coma.

UI  - 21502099
TI  - Occupational exposures and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease: a hospital based case-control study.
AB  - Lifetime occupational exposures contribute to the risk of COPD, adjusted for smoking. These risks are present in populations with a high burden of tuberculosis, which is considered an important causative factor.

UI  - 21500458
TI  - [The utility of QuantiFERON TB Gold for diagnosing tuberculous meningitis in children].
AB  - The determination of alpha-interferon in serum and CSF is useful diagnostic marker of tuberculosis who could improve the management of TB meningitis.

UI  - 21496398
TI  - Role of the quantiferon-TB test in ruling out pleural tuberculosis: a multi-centre study.
AB  - Diagnosing pleural tuberculosis (plTB) might be difficult due to limited sensitivity of conventional microbiology tools. As M. tuberculosis (MTB)-specific T cells are recruited into pleural space in plTB, their detection may provide useful clinical information. To this aim, in addition to standard diagnostic tests, we used the QuantiFERON-TB Gold In-Tube (QFT-IT) test in blood and pleural effusion (PE) samples from 48 patients with clinical suspicion of plTB, 18 (37.5%) of whom had confirmed plTB. Four of them (22.2%) tested positive with a nucleic acid amplification test for MTB. The tuberculin skin test was positive in most confirmed plTB cases (88.9%). Positive QFT-IT tests were significantly more frequent in patients with confirmed plTB, as compared to patients with an alternative diagnosis, both in blood (77.7 vs 36.6%, p=0.006) and in PE samples (83.3% vs 46.6%, p=0.02). In addition, both blood and PE MTB-stimulated IFN-gamma levels were significantly higher in plTB patients (p=0.03 and p=0.0049 vs non-plTB, respectively). In blood samples, QFT-IT had 77.8% sensitivity and 63.3% specificity, resulting in 56.0% positive (PPV) and 82.6% negative (NPV) predictive values. On PE, QFT-IT sensitivity was 83.3% and specificity 53.3% (PPV 51.7% and NPV 84.2%). The optimal AUC-derived cut-off for MTB-stimulated pleural IFN-gamma level was 3.01 IU/mL (77.8% sensitivity, 80% specificity, PPV 68.4% and NPV 82.8%). These data suggest that QFT-IT might have a role in ruling out plTB in clinical practice.

UI  - 21494548
TI  - Geographic differences in time to culture conversion in liquid media: Tuberculosis Trials Consortium study 28. Culture conversion is delayed in Africa.
AB  - ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00144417.

UI  - 21492926
TI  - 6-month versus 36-month isoniazid preventive treatment for tuberculosis in adults with HIV infection in Botswana: a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and US Agency for International Development.

UI  - 21486974
TI  - Efficacy and safety of a 4-drug fixed-dose combination regimen compared with separate drugs for treatment of pulmonary tuberculosis: the Study C randomized controlled trial.
AB  - clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00216333.

UI  - 21467129
TI  - Tuberculosis following kidney transplantation: clinical features and outcome. A French multicentre experience in the last 20 years.
AB  - Kidney transplantation increases the risk of TB, with a high rate of extrapulmonary disease. Symptoms of infection are often attenuated, leading to delayed diagnosis. Overall prognosis is good but haemophagocytic syndrome is associated with high mortality. Country of birth might be taken into account in the decision of post-transplantation treatment of latent TB.

UI  - 21461010
TI  - [Detection of latent tuberculosis infection in peritoneal dialysis patients: new methods].
AB  - According to our experience QFT-GIT represents an important advantage in the diagnosis of latent TB infection in chronic renal failure patients on PD. It may complement but not replace TST.

UI  - 21460373
TI  - The impact of isoniazid preventive therapy and antiretroviral therapy on tuberculosis in children infected with HIV in a high tuberculosis incidence setting.
AB  - The finding that IPT may offer additional protection in children on ART has significant public health implications because this offers a possible strategy for reducing TB in children infected with HIV. Widespread use of this strategy will however require screening of children for active TB disease. Trial registration Trial registration-Clinical Trials NCT00330304.

UI  - 21459676
TI  - A multicentre evaluation of the accuracy and performance of IP-10 for the diagnosis of infection with M. tuberculosis.
AB  - IP-10 has potential as a diagnostic marker for infection with Mycobacterium tuberculosis, with comparable accuracy to QuantiFERON-TB Gold In-Tube test (QFT-IT). The aims were to assess the sensitivity and specificity of IP-10, and to evaluate the impact of co-morbidity on IP-10 and QFT-IT. 168 cases with active TB, 101 healthy controls and 175 non-TB patients were included. IP-10 and IFN- were measured in plasma of QFT-IT stimulated whole blood and analyzed using previously determined algorithms. A subgroup of 48 patients and 70 healthy controls was tested in parallel with T-SPOT.TB IP-10 and QFT-IT had comparable accuracy. Sensitivity was 81% and 84% with a specificity of 97% and 100%, respectively. Combining IP-10 and QFT-IT improved sensitivity to 87% (p < 0.0005), with a specificity of 97%. T-SPOT.TB was more sensitive than QFT-IT, but not IP-10. Among non-TB patients IP-10 had a higher rate of positive responders (35% vs 27%, p < 0.02) and for both tests a positive response was associated with relevant risk factors. IFN- but not IP-10 responses to mitogen stimulation were reduced in patients with TB and non-TB infection. This study confirms and validates previous findings and adds substance to IP-10 as a novel diagnostic marker for infection with M. tuberculosis. IP-10 appeared less influenced by infections other than TB; further studies are needed to test the clinical impact of these findings.

UI  - 21457984
TI  - Genital tuberculosis among infertile women and fertility outcome after antitubercular therapy.
AB  - No single test can detect all instances of GTB. A combination of tests is needed to increase the detection rate. Treatment given solely on the basis of a positive PCR result can result in conception.

UI  - 21450523
TI  - Population-based investigation of fluoroquinolones resistant tuberculosis in rural eastern China.
AB  - Empirical use of fluoroquinolones (FQ) to treat a variety of bacterial infections may inadvertently select for FQ-resistant strains of Mycobacterium tuberculosis(MTB), especially in rural China where the use of FQ in treating infections has not been standardized. Here we determine the prevalence and describe the transmission of FQ-resistant MTB in two rural counties in eastern China through a combination of conventional epidemiology with IS6110-based restriction fragment length polymorphism(RFLP) analysis and DNA sequencing of drug-resistance determining regions. Phenotypic FQ resistance was detected in 31 of 351(8.8%) isolates. FQ resistance was equally distributed between patient-isolates deemed drug resistant and drug-susceptible, but mostly observed in those with treatment history of respiratory infection. Mutations in gyrA were found in 54.8% of FQ resistant isolates, and one isolate with a gyrB mutation. Despite predominating in entire bacilli population(69.2%), Beijing family strain had similar proportion of FQ resistance to the other(10.3% vs. 4.7%, p = 0.060). IS6110RFLP identified 2 clusters(4 isolates) among FQ resistant isolates and 3 clusters composed of both 4 FQ resistant isolates and 6 FQ susceptible isolates. Our results indicate that FQ-resistant MTB has emerged among the circulating bacillary population in rural eastern China. The relatively low level of clustering among FQ-resistant strains suggests most are acquired de novo, likely due to widespread FQ use.

UI  - 22813409
TI  - Effect of vitamin D supplementation in type 2 diabetes patients with pulmonary tuberculosis.
AB  - Vitamin D can serve as adjuvant treatment of tuberculosis in diabetics with vitamin D deficiency. Further studies are required to validate this observation and define a cut off for vitamin D level to prevent immunological alterations.

UI  - 21447159
TI  - Comparison of two laboratory-developed PCR methods for the diagnosis of pulmonary tuberculosis in Brazilian patients with and without HIV infection.
AB  - Results of this study demonstrate that the in house PCR dot blot may be an improvement for ruling out PTB diagnosis in PTB suspects assisted at hospitals with a high prevalence of TB/HIV.

UI  - 21424339
TI  - Vertebral column decancellation for the management of sharp angular spinal deformity.
AB  - The management goal of sharp angular spinal deformity is to realign the spinal deformity and safely decompress the neurological elements. However, some shortcomings related to current osteotomy treatment for these deformities are still evident. We have developed a new spinal osteotomy technique-vertebral column decancellation (VCD), including multilevel vertebral decancellation, removal of residual disc, osteoclasis of the concave cortex, compression of the convex cortex accompanied by posterior instrumentation with pedicle screws, with the expectation to decrease surgical-related complications. From January 2004 to March 2007, 45 patients (27 males/18 females) with severe sharp angular spinal deformities at our institution underwent VCD. The diagnoses included 29 congenital kyphoscoliosis and 16 Pott's deformity. Preoperative and postoperative radiographic evaluation was performed. Intraoperative, postoperative and general complications were noted. For a kyphosis deformity, an average of 2.2 vertebrae was decancellated (range, 2-4 vertebrae). The mean preoperative kyphosis was +98.6 (range, 82-138), and the mean kyphosis in the immediate postoperative period was +16.4 (range, 4-30) with an average postoperative correction of +82.2 (range, 61-124). For a kyphoscoliosis deformity, the correction rate was 64% in the coronal plane (from 83.4-30.0) postoperatively and 32.5 (61% correction) at 2 years' follow-up. In the sagittal plane, the average preoperative curve of 88.5 was corrected to 28.6 immediately after surgery and to 31.0 at 2 years' follow-up. All patients had solid fusion at latest follow-up. Complications were encountered in eight patients (17.8%), including CSF leak (n = 1), deep wound infection (n = 1), epidural hematoma (n = 1), transient neurological deficit (n = 4), and complete paralysis (n = 1). The results of this study show that single-stage posterior VCD is an effective option to manage severe sharp angular spinal deformities.

UI  - 21418447
TI  - Pilot randomized trial of nutritional supplementation in patients with tuberculosis and HIV-tuberculosis coinfection receiving directly observed short-course chemotherapy for tuberculosis.
AB  - Nutritional supplements in patients are a potentially feasible, low-cost intervention, which could impact patients with TB and TB-HIV. The public health importance of these diseases in resource-limited settings suggests the need for large, multi-centre randomized control trials on nutritional supplementation.

UI  - 21409308
TI  - 'When I get better I will do the test': Facilitators and barriers to HIV testing in Northwest Region of Cameroon with implications for TB and HIV/AIDS control programmes.
AB  - The World Health Organization has recommended collaborative activities between TB and HIV programmes with routine counseling and testing for HIV among TB patients in order to improve the uptake of HIV services. We carried out qualitative research interviews with 21 TB patients in four selected TB and HIV/AIDS treatment centres in the Northwest Region of Cameroon to explore the facilitators and barriers to HIV testing. The desire to be healthy and live longer from knowing one's status inspired by the anticipated support from loved ones, faith in a supreme being, influence and trust in the medical authority, encouraged HIV testing. Men also demonstrated their masculinity by testing, thus portraying themselves as positive role models for other men. Meanwhile, the overwhelming burden of facing both TB and HIV simultaneously, influenced by the fear of disclosure of results, harmful gender norms and practices, fear of stigma and discrimination, and misconceptions surrounding HIV/AIDS deterred HIV testing. However, as a result of conflicting emotional experiences regarding to test or not to test, the decision-making process was not straightforward and this complex process needs to be acknowledged by health care providers when advocating for routine HIV testing among TB patients.
